ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u1	The next item is the discussion on the reports of the Joint Joint Committees (JCCs), the draft law and the draft organic law on confidence in the judicial institution (No. 4604, 4603). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u2	Mr Stéphane Mazars, rapporteur of the Joint Committees, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u3	We are coming to the conclusion of the review of confidence-building legislation in the judiciary. We adopted them on first reading on May 25, and the Senate adopted them on September 29. The Joint Joint Committees reached an agreement on 21 October. We will approve, I hope, their conclusions today and our colleagues in this chamber the day after tomorrow. I must first acknowledge the desire to succeed that has prevailed throughout our discussions with my Senate counterparts, Agnès Canayer and Philippe Bonnecarrère, with the valuable support of the chairmen of our respective law commissions. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, the bills you introduced in Parliament were ambitious: restoring trust in justice is both a noble task and an overriding necessity. Your sincerity has won the support of parliamentarians because, to say the truth, the overwhelming majority of the sixty-six clauses of the bills have been the subject of immediate agreement between the assemblies. I am not talking here about minor or far-reaching provisions, since these are the filmed hearings, the limitation of the duration of the investigations, the recalibration of the investigation centres, the prison employment contract, the recasting of the reduction of sentences or, again, the ethics of the legal professions. All this, indeed, has spontaneously brought us together. There were also deeper points of divergence, but we managed to straighten them out. I present you with the most significant compromises. On criminal courts, we share with the Senate the observation of an encouraging experiment that deserves to be generalized, in particular to limit the coexistence of crime trial regimes over time. We have heard Senators' objections to an experiment that has not been completed and that took place during the health crisis. We have therefore agreed to acknowledge its generalization but to postpone its entry into force to 2023, which will allow Parliament to make a detailed assessment or even adjustments. With regard to the honorary lawyer, we have favoured the proposal of Antoine Savignat and myself to limit the experiment to criminal courts. Indeed, these criminal courts need a pool of assessors and they will benefit more from the outside look of a legal professional. On the enforcement of sentences, we encourage the support of prisoners at the end of their sentences by means of a mechanism for the release under duress of law for persons sentenced to less than two years' imprisonment and whose remaining sentence is less than three months. As for the duty of vigilance of parent companies and principals, the need to clarify the question of jurisdiction was recognized by all. The National Assembly called for the appointment of one or more courts of law, with the Senate opting for the Paris commercial court alone. The CMP has retained a single judicial tribunal, that of Paris. I must conclude by evoking what, in my view, is the greatest misunderstanding of these texts. Both the Government and Parliament have worked extensively and consulted to strengthen the protection of the rights of defence and professional secrecy of lawyers. The current law and recent case law, I would point out, have put them at a great disadvantage. With Article 3, we have restored the principle of professional secrecy. We have submitted to the Justice of Liberties and Detention (JLD) searches of a lawyer's office and home and have conditioned these acts on serious preconditions. We even protected the lawyer's correspondence when they were seized in another place. We have subjected to the same strict regime the communication of fadettes and the listening. In order to reach agreement with the Senate, we have simply reduced the principle of non-opportunity in very limited cases, involving advice alone and the commission of serious economic and fiscal offences, which are particularly detrimental to our social contract. I repeat, in the text of the Joint Joint Committee, there are few documents not covered by secrecy, in any case far fewer than today: anyone who reads the text honestly cannot deny it, it is a giant step in the right direction. Judicial cases in which the Court of Cassation has authorized the supervision of lawyers could not take place with these new provisions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] However, I must note with great bitterness that the intentions that the professionals still lend to the minister and parliamentarians are exactly the opposite. Colleagues, my political commitment is part of the search for the common good. In particular, the National Bar Council (NCB) calls on us to withdraw these provisions: this is unacceptable. If the representatives of the lawyers wish to perpetuate the jurisprudence of the fadettes and the practice of listening, if they want nothing to change in the search regime, then, let's say, Parliament will not accept it. We will not allow partisan or corporatist postures to jeopardize advances that belong not to lawyers, but to litigants. Then and above all, we began this legislature with two other "trust" laws. Let us not forget 2017 and the exasperated demand that the French then addressed to us: the demand to fight fraud effectively. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite this incomprehension and even disappointment with regard to Article 3, there is consensus in the draft organic and ordinary laws. I therefore call on you to give them your vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u4	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u5	I am particularly pleased, if not moved, after ten months of work, to meet you this evening following the agreement reached in Joint Joint Committees between the two Houses of Parliament on these bills and organic law for confidence in the judicial institution. The agreement reached between Members of Parliament and senators on these texts, which I have the honour to defend, is a testament to the shared purpose and consensus of these provisions. I should like very quickly, at this stage of the debate, to recall the essential points, which are all advances in favour of justice and the people who are litigants. In a few weeks, it will be possible to film the hearings. It is about allowing the French to invite justice to their living room, to know it better, to understand it better, to understand it better. Bashing justice is often the springboard of populists. I would like to give one example. When one has seen, felt, measured how difficult it is to determine a sentence, to make a decision, when one has understood what the customization of a sentence is, I think that justice will be less criticized because, simply, it will be better understood. I also wish that a young man arrested on the street no longer calls a president of the court of assizes: "Your honor". This arrangement, I wear it viscerally. In the background, I wanted to remove the walls of the courtroom, which sometimes cannot contain more than forty people. It should be remembered that advertising is one of the major guarantees of justice: in dictatorships, justice is never done publicly. Let us say it again and again: justice must be looked at with benevolence. It is indispensable, it is our social pact. And to conclude with this chapter, I mean here that I have conversed dozens of times with jurors: they have all assured me of the extent to which this experience has transformed their vision of justice. I hope that this experience will be shared by all our compatriots. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let's move on to the preliminary investigation. In 1959, the preliminary investigation was called the informal investigation. She wasn't preliminary anymore. In fact, it was not confined within any time frame. It could last three or even four years and the justiciable wondered what sauce he was finally going to eat, or not. Sometimes his name was in the press and his relatives could see how often the presumption of innocence in our country was violated. We will, thanks to you, put an end to this. Finally, in this great democratic country, which is ours, preliminary investigations will be carried out in a timely manner. We will give back to the popular jury the letters of nobility that he had lost, in the sense that popular sovereignty no longer meant anything. I would point out that, under the current law, a verdict of guilt can be pronounced when a majority has not emerged among the jurors. We have therefore changed the calculation methods so that, from now on, people's sovereignty has a meaning: it will take a majority of jurors for a condemnation to be pronounced. As far as departmental criminal courts are concerned, the double look at the bottom is a bit like the call: it is indispensable. The Senate reminds us that this experience is not over: it is true and we will go to the end of it. I have heard what honourable senators have said and, in order not to hide anything from you, I have agreed with them. These special assize courses, these departmental courses will come into being, but once the experiment has been completed, you have reminded us, Mr rapporteur, that the covid-19 did not allow it to proceed as we would have wished. We have also established, and this is not nothing, a specialized national jurisdiction for serial crimes. Allow me, at this moment, to have a thought for a number of victims who did not know the epilogue they wanted because one case was being studied here, another there, another elsewhere, the junction was not made and a number of criminals managed to pass through the meshes and were never discovered. Experience shows that when a magistrate deals with all these cases and essentially deals with them, the results are at the rendezvous of the legitimate expectations of the victims who seek justice. We'll do it. We will also remove the reminder to the law, which was no longer understood by anyone. It was, if you allow me this moment of gambling, after a reminder to the law was pronounced, a kind of "lool" or even "not bad". The call to the law is over. We will move on to a new provision which will certainly remain the first bar on the scale of sanctions: the probationary penal warning. The treatment of low-intensity crime is mentioned here. A small crime is committed: a warning is issued and, if the offender commits a new offence within the next two years – I was proposing a year, the Senate has proposed three years, you have agreed, in a co-construction process, on this compromise – he will be punished not only for this new offence, but also for the one that had given him the probationary penal warning. It should be pointed out that violence will be excluded from this warning. With regard to the enforcement of sentences, I reiterate and reaffirm with me that the detainee, because he is a human being, has not only rights but also duties. We put an end to the automatic reduction of sentences, this hypocritical system of prison regulation which did not say its name, in order to replace them with reductions in sentences granted to the effort. The effort, for a fully desocialized young person, can be to get up in the morning; It can be detoxification, work, learning. This is what I wanted, if I dare to say, to put on the agenda – that of our compatriots who, too, make efforts by getting up early every morning to go to work. Although it is separated by its enclosure walls, the prison is an integral part of society; This is why the sense of effort is not a prohibited meaning. I also wanted to introduce with you a great novelty: a contract of employment for the inmate, combined with the codification of the prison rules that all the practitioners called for. This contract will allow employers to know exactly how and under what conditions prisoners can work. In front of the national representation, I undertake – if you allow me this somewhat familiar formula – to bring bosses to prison, to ask them to bring work. We are in the process of accomplishing this; Thanks to this contract, we will return to a rate of work in detention which has unfortunately been forgotten for years. This is a win-win pact for the inmate who no longer knows idleness, for the society that receives the insurance of his reintegration, for the employer who finds there a benefit both human and, let's say, pecuniary. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have strengthened mediation, that is, the justice that both parties participated in, so that the threshold and acceptability of these consensual decisions far exceed those of the imposed decisions. In addition, mediation ensures faster and closer justice. I will of course mention the provisions adopted in the field of ethics of the legal professions: it was not acceptable that in the event of a dispute with a lawyer, bailiff or notary, our compatriots should rely exclusively on the arbitration of lawyers, bailiffs or notaries. I therefore wanted to introduce a suffocation, in order to make the courts responsible for deciding between litigants and legal professionals fair: this is a measure that will restore confidence. I mean, I want to focus on attorneys' professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u6	Last but not the ast!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u7	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u8	It has not escaped anyone that many discussions have taken place within the profession. In a few moments, the defence of my amendment will give me the opportunity to fully explain the path of the text and the will that has been mine – which, I know, is also yours. Let no one pretend that we have been, in any way, the fosseurs of professional secrecy! All the measures taken, without exception, reinforce the protection of this secret dear to the French: 93% of them consider it to be on the same level as medical secrecy. Indeed, it is first and, perhaps, above all, the people who are subject to it. Before concluding, I would like to thank you warmly for the quality work that has enabled us to produce texts of which we can be proud. In particular, I thank the rapporteur Stéphane Mazars, the committee chairwoman Yaël Braun-Pivet, the deputies Laetitia Avia – of course –, Isabelle Florennes, Laurence Vichnievsky and Dimitri Houbron, who is obviously at our side. I also thank members of Parliament for the opposition, which, for some, has been constructive and has helped us improve bills. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] I measure with you the magnitude of the task that falls to me. These texts will not do anything: it is only a step in the vast project that has been under way since the beginning of the quinquennium. I therefore want to continue to fight with you, as I have done since my arrival, to ensure that the means available to justice meet the expectations of our compatriots. A second stage is under way: the general states of justice, which, following a very broad democratic dialogue – our fellow citizens will be associated with it – will lead to proposals for improving its functioning, because that is what matters to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u9	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure concerning the ordinary bill. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u10	I am afraid to spoil somewhat the self-satisfaction which, at the end of the legislature, becomes a habit. Let us imagine for a moment, for example, a guard of seals who, at the very time of the examination of these bills and of organic legislation for trust in the judicial institution, is being called into question for unlawful taking of interests in his office as minister. Let us imagine that, while the parliamentary shuttle continues, it is under investigation; that, challenging the facts, his friends make it known through the press that he is a victim of the conspiracy of magistrates' unions and some magistrates – one must always have confidence in the justice of his country! Let us imagine that, at the same time, a position of prosecutor being vacant in Créteil,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u11	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u12	...the guard of the seals has the outcry to think that, among the many candidates likely to occupy it, he could appoint by the greatest of chance the adviser "justice" of the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the old files of the guard of the seals, which his new functions prevent to examine without conflict of interest. Let us finally imagine that all this is reality! You will ask me what regime, what country I am talking about: not France, in any case, where it would be an too extraordinary affront that the guard of the seals in question come to the National Assembly to tell about the trust in a judicial institution that he tramples on every moment! It should be noted, however, that in the course of the shuttle, a marginal change escaped our examination: it concerned the conditions under which an illegal take of interest can be described. Bitch, you'll tell me, bitch! [["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That said, I'm still going to study the background. Those who know me also know that I study it often and for a long time: this is my duty as an opposition parliamentarian, even if the result is often painful for you. I said, I repeat, that it includes progress, provisions with which I agree. The prison employment contract, of which I would have preferred a maximalist version, goes at least in the right direction and provides a point of support. The restriction of the criteria for pre-trial detention, very well: I am in favour of it, as well as of forced release for the last three months, although this one looks curiously like a prison regulatory mechanism that does not say its name – to use the Minister's formula justifying the abolition of automatic reductions of sentences. I'll come back. Other advances are more technical, less visible, which include unresolved cases and serial crimes. Finally, we will know at the end of this debate whether there really is a breakthrough in defence and counsel secrecy between the lawyer and his client. The National Assembly had adopted a good drafting: I do not know by what chance the majority and the Senate ended up accommodating themselves with a problematic version and preferring to conspure the corporation, by definition corporatist. In short, all of this is unsavory. But this progress is quickly swept away not by the practices I mentioned in the introduction, but by the regressions and setbacks that this text punishes. That is why we are opposed and will still oppose it. There are the filmed audiences: at first, I was in favour of it, but it becomes "Tele Dupond-Moretti"! The Ministry of Justice will be able to choose the hearings that it considers most educational, on criteria that we do not know, with television teams of which no one will know why they were chosen – perhaps they will belong to the public service, but not always... In the end, we don't know what's going to happen. What we can read in the press is that the former lawyer and current minister Dupond-Moretti would see tomorrow the presenter Dupond-Moretti, no doubt of a judicial television show, so that we stop saying: "Your honor"! Indeed, we must stop saying: "Your honor": on this, we agree. I come to the abolition of some of the assize trials, which will be transferred to departmental criminal courts. There are faces of the story, which we end up finding while looking well. I inquired: the popular jurors are the result of the great Revolution of 1789 and the desire to put the people back at the heart of the judicial institutions, to decide with the justice of the Ancien Régime. At the time, we were talking about criminal courts. Napoleon Bonaparte transformed them into seats and his successors retained this name. Today, Minister, you take the name "criminal court", but by abolishing the jurors, who are, I repeat, born out of the great Revolution of 1789. Where we should instead discuss the means to be given to justice so that it more associates the people – by drawing lots in this case, as far as jurors are concerned – you drastically reduce the perimeter for reasons of flow management: "We do not have enough means. You have to go faster, you understand, the justiciable needs it. » As for the framework of the preliminary investigation, it is a trompe l'oeil. The idea of a deadline is tempting, of course: no more than two years, plus one, if any, for simple cases, so no more than three, if not five, for more complex cases. But once the preliminary investigation has been completed, what prospect remains? The investigation may be closed without further action, if there is no evidence, or if there is a trial and judgement, or if judicial information is opened for prosecution by other means, including those of an independent investigating judge. However, the statistics show that the vast majority of preliminary surveys last less than three years. Only a small minority of them last longer: some drag in the drawers – you have to take care of them and purge them – but the investigations of the National Financial Prosecutor's Office (PNF) last more than three years because they are more complex: they often have international interlocks that require to request documents abroad, which takes time. However, there will no longer be any preliminary investigations, whereas the PNF's objective was precisely to open them for all cases in order to save time for investigation and to go to trial faster! The PNF wanted to avoid the claim that there is a justice that takes its time for the most powerful and an immediate court appearance for the weakest. In the end, Minister, you are telling the PNF judges that they will return to the investigating judge if they have not completed their investigation in three years. Would you plan to increase, as a result, the resources of the Chamber of Investigation and the training firms? That's nenni! What's going to happen? Just an increase in the duration of the investigation for the most powerful in this country: this is the only political result to which the rather attractive proposal to frame the preliminary investigation will lead. Then, when it comes to the abolition of automatic reductions in sentences, we are swimming in the middle of delusion! We are told that we will do "better prison" with more prison, with a carrot, by asking the inmates to invest: we know of course that it is their fault if they do not work enough! The waiting list to work in prison is as long as the arm, but if there are not enough activities, it is of course the fault of the prisoners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u13	Ah, there, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u14	We know the music and all this doesn't stand, which explains the forced release that you give less than three months. There are also periods of security and removal of legal reminders. We have not even discussed here the extent to which they will be replaced, since they are only included in the recent version of the Senate. I didn't even have my say. However, legal reminders account for 21% of the criminal response rate! But they are swept away with a back of their hand by a new acronym. In conclusion, we will vote against the text which includes more retrogressive than progressive measures. Yes, we must restore confidence in the judicial institution, that's right. How can I do that? By the constitutional reform that you did not do and that you promised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u15	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u16	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM Group and on the benches of the commissions]] We want this reform and we will do it with Jean-Luc Mélenchon in 2022, because it will be time for you to switch to your television programs, Minister! We will make the judiciary independent of the executive by entrusting the choice and appointment of prosecutors directly to the Higher Council of the Judiciary (CSM), which will be reformed. Its members will be more numerous, so that the forum can truly play the advisory role, and a substantial part of them will be drawn from civil society, so as to restore trust with the litigants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u17	I will ask you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u18	Of course, a bill on judicial policy will have to be discussed here in the National Assembly in order to decide with the minister's circulars, which are kind of small facts of the prince that would do well, especially in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u19	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Raphaël Gauvain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u20	[[Ms. Laetitia Avia applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us imagine for a moment, Mr Bernalicis, an eternal candidate in the presidential election, president of a parliamentary group, who would oppose an investigative measure by saying that it is him, the Republic. I won't come back any longer on your ad hominem attacks. On the substance, the Minister and the rapporteur have set out at length the historical progress of the text, in particular with regard to the rights of defence and the strengthening of professional secrecy, which I hope will be discussed in a few moments. We propose, we move forward. You propose to reject: we will therefore reject your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u21	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u22	I admit that at the very beginning of the presentation, because, if I understood the first words correctly, trust in justice, it is first of all to flout the presumption of innocence and defile the honour of a man who is not here today before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u23	Yes, he's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups. – Mr Stéphane Mazars, rapporteur, and Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, also applaud]] In these circumstances, I do not see how we can vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u25	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u26	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I listened very carefully to the reasons that led our colleague to put forward this motion for rejection. It has come to mind a formula – the terms of which are not entirely accurate, however: the excess of reproach is as insignificant as the excess of self-satisfaction. I must admit that, in this case, when it comes to parliamentary circuses, we have rarely seen such a cabotinage number. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote against this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u27	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u28	Despite all the respect I have for our colleague Ugo Bernalicis, I do not understand this motion of rejection. I do not understand it on the form, first of all, because the text is the result of an agreement with senators and important work – in this regard, I congratulate rapporteur Mazars on his ability to work in a trans-partisan manner. I also do not understand it in substance because, as you have even said, Mr Bernalicis, there is still much progress in the text. We do not agree with Article 1e r but, in my view, the possibility of filming hearings and using videos for educational purposes will necessarily create an additional link between the justice of our country and citizens, particularly law students. When I was on the benches of the faculty, I would have liked to be able to benefit from this educational tool, which I think is very useful, even if I had the chance to go to court. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned, Mr. Bernalicis, the supervision of preliminary investigations, the protection of professional secrecy, the departmental criminal courts and the end of the automaticity of sentencing reductions. However, this set of measures is absolutely essential to re-establishing a link between our citizens and justice. We shall say more during the general debate, but the Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote against the motion for a preliminary rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u29	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, a request for a public vote is before me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u30	Talleyrand said: "Everything that is excessive is insignificant. This word applies perfectly to the introduction of this motion of prior rejection: it is absolutely insignificant to make such a statement and to engage in such provocation. In this regard, I thank the Minister for his serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u31	It's rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u32	Of course, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats do not share your vision, Mr Bernalicis; After all, we are in the right place to debate it. Of course, we will reject the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u33	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u34	As a matter of principle, I would not have voted on this motion of rejection because we are coming to the end of the debate and the representatives of groups have spoken out several times clearly. We have also voted against it, as I will do on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left this evening. However, I will vote on this motion and I will tell you why, minister. I believe that this is the first time I have attended a debate in which you are the representative of the Government. When you went up to the gallery earlier, I found – I say it honestly – that the tone you used was not very appropriate. And when, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you table an amendment at the last moment, without us being able to assess it, while the CMP has adopted a text, know that it is not in the habits of our parliamentary life. In the rostrum, you even hugged us by saying that you would not accept that someone might object to this amendment, because that would mean that he would not understand anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u35	Oh, no, I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u36	I understood it that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u37	Well, you were wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u38	In these circumstances, with an amendment that is imposed on us at the last moment, in an unusual way, without our being able to discuss it in our group, I shall vote for the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u39	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u40	When a motion of rejection is tabled, it may be because we are questioning whether the text is constitutional or not – I hope we will explain it to the Constitutional Council – or because it is felt that the text is not timely, that it is not appropriate – without a motion of referral to committee that is no longer possible. That is the meaning of this motion: it is not appropriate to adopt all the provisions of the text, as they do not imply majority support by the judiciary. We still have to call him back. One can pretend to believe that the CMP concluded between the National Assembly and the Senate means that a majority of people in France would be in favour of this text, but that is not the case. The mobilization of lawyers has shown that the situation is more complex. [["Oh! » on various benches]] I must say, however, that if you have not understood the first part of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, it is that you do not understand what can happen in the minds of the majority of French people who look at us and are interested in French politics. I have no problem with the presumption of innocence, and I did not say that a minister under investigation should leave the Government! I never wanted it or asked! I refer you to your own turpitudes, because it is the acts that you pose, as well as the texts that you propose, that create mistrust in the judicial institution. However, the actions you have been taking since the beginning, Minister, run counter to the restoration of confidence in the judicial institution. That is why this motion is very relevant and that I would like as many colleagues as possible to vote on it and that in 2022 we can have a real discussion about what to do with justice in our country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u41	We're gonna get him, we're gonna get him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u42	... rather than voting for a bunch of more or less positive, scattered elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u43	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u44	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 4 Against 49
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u45	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u46	You mentioned, Mr. President Chassaigne, the tone I used. I think I can tell you, very respectfully, that you misunderstood my remarks. I have never said that I will not accept that you do not vote for any amendment that I would introduce. I respect national representation and, of course, your freedom to vote. I said, on the other hand – that's what you misheard – that I would not leave it to anyone to say that I am, or that we are, the fosseurs of professional secrecy. That is exactly what I said. If I had said – inadvertently, inadvertently, or because, like some here, I would have been insulting – what you thought you heard, I would offer you the most apologies. I didn't say what you blame me for, and I wish you knew. I repeat: I am very respectful of your work and have mentioned on many occasions the work of co-construction that I have had the honour and the pleasure of carrying out with Mrs Buffet, including on this text. I wanted the misunderstanding to be definitively dispelled, Mr. President Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u47	Before giving the floor to the first speaker on the list, I would like to remind you that, for the texts of a joint committee, statements in the general debate are equivalent to explanations of vote. Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u48	The functioning of justice has been at the heart of public debate for several years. We cannot ignore the shortcomings and difficulties it faces and the criticism it raises. But neither can we ignore the determination and consistency of the Government's action – you have recalled them, Mr. Keeper of Seals – and of the majority who, since 2017, have provided considerable work to give this institution the place it deserves. While the President of the Republic opened in Poitiers on 18 October the general states of justice, in which the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will be happy to participate, the restoration of links between the judiciary and citizens is a crucial issue. The agreement reached at the Joint Joint Committee of 21 October 2021 on the draft ordinary and organic law for confidence in the judicial institution attests to our willingness to move forward on this issue. In particular, our group welcomes the approved measures relating to professional secrecy. The Joint Joint Committee adopted several provisions introduced by the Senate. However, we must continue to make progress in this area in order to find a balance that meets the need to ensure the proper functioning of the justice system while limiting exceptions to solicitor-client privilege to very concrete and clear situations. That is why our group will support the amendment tabled by the Government to maintain only one exception out of the two provided for in the text: the one in which the lawyer was the subject of manoeuvres or actions for the purpose of allowing, unintentionally, the commission, prosecution or concealment of an offence was indeed too imprecise and too broad. The CMP also addressed the issue of departmental criminal courts: the results of the experiment are convincing and we can therefore consider moving forward more quickly to deploy them. This does not mean, however, that we are abandoning a quality evaluation of this mechanism: the completion date of the experiment, scheduled for January 2023, and the establishment of a parliamentary follow-up committee will allow us to obtain a precise feedback on the effectiveness of these courses and to draw all the lessons from them. Our group is confident that the good results already achieved will be sustained. I would also like to refer to the framework for preliminary investigations. At the meeting of the CMP, we obtained that the deadlines voted in the National Assembly were maintained, while retaining Senate additions useful in terms of, inter alia, international judicial assistance and European coordination. We regret, however, that the extension of the preliminary investigation period to three years for economic offences has not been retained, as our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky wanted in particular. This is, in our view, a missed opportunity. With regard to the centres specializing in serial or unsolved crimes – the famous cold cases – I would like here to pay tribute to the work of our colleague Laurence Vichnevsky,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u49	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u50	... which unfortunately cannot be present with us tonight but which, I know, follows our discussions closely. Our group is proud to have supported its proposal to create specialized jurisdictions in this area, which we have successfully restored to CMP. Finally, I would like to welcome the investment made by our colleague Erwan Balanant to ensure that the judicial judge, who is the natural judge, has jurisdiction over the matter of the duty of vigilance. The Senate had wished to entrust it to the commercial court in Paris, but the CMP has allowed this measure to be reconsidered. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of these two bills as amended this evening. They are not an end in themselves, but they are a great step forward for, I hope, a better confidence in the judicial institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u51	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u52	The ordinary and organic bills we are considering this evening aim to strengthen confidence in the judicial institution: it is a gentle euphemism to speak of trust, so much the link between justice and citizens has become elusive and demands to be restored with respect for the institution and its actors! Among the positive aspects of these texts, the recording and dissemination of hearings respond to the legitimate desire to promote a better knowledge of the functioning of justice: there is general confidence in what is known and it is important to show the complexity of the mechanisms of a rule of law. It will be admitted, however, that justice probably has other priorities and that openness to citizens and parliamentarians of judicial councils, everywhere in France, would be a safer and less costly means of information and dialogue. The limitation of the preliminary investigation to two years is, as has been said, a step forward for the rights of litigants. However, judges point to the lack of derogation for complex financial investigations and the fact that the reform is not accompanied by a significant increase in resources and staff. The experiment of the departmental criminal courts will continue until the date originally scheduled, that is the end of the year 2022. We hope, therefore, that nothing will be done and that the debate following the experiment will highlight the paradoxical nature of speaking of a text aimed at restoring the confidence of the citizens and of wanting to generalize an expensive system in number of professionals and excluding the popular jury. The duty of vigilance, of which the Senate is clearly wary, falls within the competence of the judicial court in Paris. The latter deals with issues relating to the violation of human rights and ecological damage, it is legitimate to entrust this type of dispute to him rather than to the commercial court. I thank the Minister on this point. With regard to prisons and the work of prisoners, the use of a prison employment contract was a positive sign of integration. More work remains to be done at the heart of prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u53	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u54	Finally, with regard to the conduct and discipline of legal professionals, I welcome the establishment of an ethics college with each of the ministerial officers' orders. This was one of the main recommendations of my flash mission with Fabien Matras on this topic. These provisions are aimed not at instilling doubt about these professions, but at promoting a culture of ethics everywhere, especially in the legal professions. Users are looking forward to their implementation and are eager to rely on an aborted college. I thank the professionals for playing the change card.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u55	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u56	However, I also wish to make significant reservations about these bills. Firstly, if one understands the intention of linking the reduction of sentence to the right conduct, it seems to us that this was already the case and that the new system, it must be said, does not win the support of professionals. It has also been the subject of reservations by the Council of State. Automaticity will no longer be a right, penalty reduction credits will be withdrawn in the event of misconduct, and the assessment of the sentence enforcement judge's credit card will lead to disparities in treatment between inmates, which will complicate an already arduous task. Tensions are to be feared in prisons, in a context of increasing overcrowding. Secondly, the exception to the lawyer's professional secrecy for counseling in cases of tax fraud, corruption, influence trafficking or laundering of these offences opens up a breach in the protection of this principle – to such an extent that you will exceptionally defend an amendment to Article 3 in order to amend the text after the conclusion of the Joint Joint Committee and not only redress a material error or unconstitutionality. We have tabled a clarification sub-amendment to your amendment. You have, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, the possibility of accepting his examination or not. I hope that, in the interests of respect for parliamentary work and given the exceptional nature of the amendment you are proposing, you will accept our discussion and we thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u57	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u58	Finally, trust in the judicial institution, which is lacking in all the territories, is a matter for civil justice, which is largely absent from this text. Questions should be asked about the cost, the time frame or the execution of a judgement. This is perhaps the most important criticism: these texts do not respond to the growing malaise that causes the litigants to turn away from civil justice. [[Mr. Jérôme Lambert applauds]] We also regret that criminality still occupies as much place in the texts discussed. The discussions this evening will also turn around these issues, while the daily life of the citizens is to obtain a remedy following a fraudulent sale contract, a decision in a complex social situation, a divorce judgment or the execution of a judgment even rendered late. The French want short deadlines and reduced costs to obtain justice in a matter that is their life. Consequently, the Socialist and related groups will vote mainly against these texts; For my part, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u59	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u60	It would be a fundamental mistake to think that the problems of justice concern only justice. If the law is the cement of society, the judicial institution is the craftsman who, every day, ensures respect for individual rights and freedoms, and the maintenance of this social bond that unites us all. Therefore, when citizens lose confidence in their justice, when the courts are no longer able to carry out their duties effectively, when criminal proceedings are perceived as obscure and a sense of impunity develops in some, it is the entire structure of our society that suffers. These abuses, which we have suffered for several years, are those against which these ordinary and organic bills for trust in the judicial institution are fighting. They have been co-built with magistrates, judicial officers, users of the public judicial service and members of the doctrine, who can express themselves in the framework of the general states of justice recently inaugurated by the President of the Republic. In addition, the provisions were enriched by the work carried out in good intelligence with the Senate, up to the Joint Concluded Committee. These texts are above all those of justice which feeds on technological progress to regain the confidence of the citizens. In this regard, the Working Together Group particularly welcomes the possibility of recording and disseminating certain judicial hearings and certain acts carried out by the investigating judge. This development, subject to the written agreement of the parties and surrounded by important guarantees in order to protect them, will enable the French to see and understand for themselves the functioning of the judicial institution. These texts are also those of a criminal procedure that respects the rights of the defence. In this sense, the duration of preliminary investigations is limited to two years and may extend to five years for the most serious offences. With the same will, the majority has chosen to finally ensure full protection of lawyers' professional secrecy, including in the area of counsel. However, parsimony and common sense must also be applied to the definition of the offences themselves. That is why we are clearly delineating the offence of illegal taking of interests, which is currently the cause of many convictions of local elected officials who have often committed, for fault alone, only a procedural error. In addition, trustworthy justice is an effective justice: this is the spirit of the creation of one or more centres specialized in the treatment of serial crimes, complex or unsolved, and of the generalization, as of 1 January 2023, of departmental criminal courts composed of five professional magistrates. This will be accompanied by a follow-up committee, which will consist of two members and two senators, respectively, appointed by the Speaker of the National Assembly and the Speaker of the Senate. The committee shall prepare a public report no later than two months before the entry into force of section 7 of the ordinary bill. The balance is thus perfectly struck between the Government and the two chambers. Firmness must also be one of the guiding principles of our sentencing policy. Sentence reduction credits will no longer be automatic. Finally, the prison employment contract will ensure that the prison becomes a place of rehabilitation and not a place of perdition. The Working Together Group fully supports all of the objectives of these bills. That is why he has made himself a proposal, supporting several amendments which have been adopted. In particular, we welcome the mechanism to ensure that the available share of the escaped detainees' account is ex officio paid to the civilian parties after one year. Similarly, the mandatory nature of the pre-trial pre-trial criminal hearing will allow the parties to agree on witnesses and experts to be heard in order to focus, at the hearing, on the proceedings. With regard to the experiment with the presence of an honorary lawyer in the county courts and criminal courts, we are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has concluded that it should be limited to criminal courts alone. Finally, the provisions of Article 3 relating to the professional secrecy of lawyers have given rise to a lot of ink – rightly, because it is a fundamental subject in a democracy. While the bill had the ambition to better protect this professional secrecy, the Senate's amendments weakened it. The Joint Joint Committee has reached a point of balance, but the version that will emerge from this discussion, after the adoption of the Government's amendment, seems to us to be the most protective of lawyers' professional secrecy, without falling into impunity that would be incompatible with democracy. [[Applause on committee benches. – Mrs Alexandra Louis and Isabelle Florennes also applaud]] Citizens' trust is earned, and the judicial institution is not immune to this rule. On the basis of this, the Action Together group will support this bill with conviction, through which the procedures will be more transparent, the penalties will be better applied and the offences will be better prosecuted by the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u61	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u62	There is no justice without separation of powers; There is also no justice without the independence and impartiality of the judges with regard to the first of the powers: opinion, "this prostitute who pulls the judge by the handle," according to Moro-Giafferi.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u63	It's a classic, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u64	During its first reading, I recalled the context in which this bill came into play: justice is an unloved, expensive, slow and widely discredited institution; 62 per cent of our citizens feel that the courts are not working well. Only one institution is even more unloved: political parties – that is, the extent of disaffection with the judicial authority, to use the formula of the Constitution. As the Attorney General of the Court of Cassation, François Molins, stated during the solemn hearing of the re-entry: "Justice is thus increasingly challenged, broached, at the risk of bringing society against the judges. We are not far from such a risk. That has been said and said again: the bill has a limited scope, its provisions concern only 25 per cent of judicial cases. The IDU and independent group considers that the work carried out by the Assembly, the Senate and the Joint Joint Committee has introduced new and important elements, which should be welcomed. The duration of the preliminary investigations will thus be limited, so that we can avoid and frame the drifts that we have seen. Moreover, the experiment of the departmental criminal courts will be continued until its conclusion, and a review will be presented to Parliament, before a generalization from 1 January 2023: this progress seems important to us, especially since we had drawn the attention of Parliament and the Government on this subject, together with deputies from other groups. Finally, we can only welcome the creation of the prison employment contract, which confers social rights on prisoners. How could we wait for 2021 to proceed? How could successive governments and legislatures have been so inattentive that they did not give prisoners the first of justice, that of enjoying social rights?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u65	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u66	This must ask us about the work we do, however, sincerely and in good faith, like our predecessors. I thank the Government for this measure of social justice. The bill strengthens the protection of defence secrecy, which until now had been an incantatory rite – everything has been said on the subject. However, we continue to question certain provisions, such as the recording of hearings: even if safeguards are provided, we consider that this innovation is not surrounded by all the necessary security. With regard to the abolition of automatic remissions, it could stifle the system to achieve, in 95% of cases, the same result as before. We have doubts about other provisions, but welcome the progress that has been made with an amendment at first reading: more severe penalties for offences committed against law enforcement officials. It was necessary to give our society a strong sign in this regard. Finally, we have almost an existential doubt about the new probationary penal warning: it certainly draws a new perspective, but experience will tell if it is not limited to a simple change of name from the reminder to the law. I would particularly like to thank the Minister and the Government for having agreed to the request of the Caledonian parliamentarians to establish a centre for access to law in New Caledonia. We were the only ultramarine community that did not yet benefit from it; This "unrighteousness" is therefore repaired.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u68	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I thank you, on behalf of the most remote populations, for filling this legislative gap. Taking note of all these advances and the balances that have been found, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u69	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u70	During the general states of justice in Poitiers, the President of the Republic announced an umpteenth reform of the justice system. It will be added, in the near future, to the profusion of successive laws – of which this text is part – aimed at reforming the judicial institution. This chain of reforms, which largely react to media unrest and lack a global vision, is denounced by the professionals of the justice system, who do not have time to assimilate legislative changes into their practices and who all make means the only real question. It is difficult to express a single position on a text that contains such disparate and sometimes contradictory measures. For example, why, on the one hand, should measures be taken to reduce pre-trial detention to relieve prison congestion and, on the other hand, to abolish automatic sentencing credits, which will increase the length of detention and increase the number of prisoners?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u71	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u72	Similarly, why strengthen the role of jurors as citizens in the assize courts and, at the same time, generalize the departmental criminal courts that make the jurors disappear? Despite these questions, we support a large part of the measures in the Joint Committee text. The provisions to limit the duration of the preliminary investigation to two years are particularly welcome, given that 95 per cent of the litigants deplore too slow a justice system; Although we would have liked to see this deadline shortened to one year, it seemed difficult to apply. The provisions favouring the use of alternatives to pre-trial detention were in the right direction, although they remained too timorated. Finally, we welcome the creation of a real prison employment contract and the opening of social rights for prisoners: this puts an end to a scandalous anomaly. However, we are disturbed by several provisions. Thus, we are divided as to the distribution of hearings. Since mechanisms are already in place to retransmit the major trials, we do not see the contribution that the broadcasting of more anodized hearings will make. Despite the welcome obligation to give these retransmissions an educational aim, this could lead to trials in the form of media shows. Turning to the hard point of the text, the Libertés et territoires Group regards as important advances the strengthening of the lawyer's professional secrecy in his counseling and defence activities, as well as the opening of the preliminary investigation to the adversarial debate. However, the Joint Joint Committee has planned to add an article to the Criminal Code, according to which professional secrecy of counsel will not be enforceable against investigative or investigative measures in the event of tax fraud, corruption and the financing of terrorism, or "where the lawyer has been the subject of manoeuvres or actions for the purpose of allowing, unintentionally, the commission, prosecution or concealment of an offence". These new paragraphs, introduced in the last minute – and which you want to keep in part for the reading of the amendment you are proposing to us this evening – are strongly criticized by the representatives of the lawyers, who previously approved the drafting of the article. In addition, the CMP compromise provides for the generalization of departmental criminal courts on 1 January 2023. If this is a lesser evil compared to the initial version of the Government, we regret that the experiment is widespread before its results are known. In our view, the gradual disappearance of the juries of seats is a mistake, because they are a great moment of democracy. We are also concerned about the reform of the penalty reduction appropriations. The convicted person will no longer know in advance the date on which he will leave the prison, which could increase the dry exits. Decisions may also be taken in an arbitrary manner according to judges and locations. We further deplore the introduction by the Government of several measures of security tightening during the sessional review in the National Assembly, and partly retained in the final version; In our view, these additions are evidence of decisions taken under media pressure. The reminder to the law, which the Government originally wished to remove, is transformed into a probationary criminal warning measure in the version of the CMP. We are pleased that the Government has taken a step backwards in this regard, as the reminder of the law is a useful step, allowing the perpetrator of a small mischief to be subjected to the solemnity of justice; His act would remain, if not, unanswered. Ultimately, the bill brings together a wide range of measures and illustrates successive governments' delays in the vision of justice. Some provisions seem to us to be very satisfactory because they respond to a need for efficiency and proximity to justice; On the other hand, we are radically opposed to others, which rather respond to media concerns. The majority of members of our group therefore consider abstaining.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u73	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u74	As it is a good tone to talk about the general states of justice, I will say a few words – indeed, it is the prospect that the keeper of the seals and the President of the Republic, even if they will no longer be there to talk about it after April 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u75	A little modesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u76	What exactly does the President of the Republic tell us? That the central problem of justice is permanent legislative inflation. We'd vote too many texts. At first, I believed in a joke: it is still the executive that has been manoeuvring to propose texts – and in numbers – since the beginning of the legislature! The President of the Republic made his point: the main problem is not just legislative inflation, but that there are too many amendments to the texts. I thought it was a second joke. That there are too many amendments, perhaps? Perhaps Bernalicis and his insubmissive La France compaisses monopolize a little too much the floor to defend their amendments, two minutes here, two minutes there? But what is the problem, since our amendments are not adopted? Rather, it could be said that it is the last-minute amendments in concluding MPCs – but not really – that give the texts the character at least inconclusive. It's a hypothesis. If justice were to be improved, the President of the Republic, who obviously has a serious problem with parliamentary functioning, or rather, with the existence of parliamentarism in our country, should not be listened to. What should have been done to restore confidence in the judicial institution? Rather than strengthening, over and over again, the prerogatives of the prosecutor, we could have skillfully strengthened the powers of the investigating judge. If we find that the preliminary investigation mobilizes too many resources and has too many possibilities – making fadettes, searching here or there... – let us withdraw these powers from the prosecution and give them to the magistrates of the seat for investigation. Lack of success, the law of justice programming for the years 2018 to 2022 does the opposite! So it would have been complicated to go in the opposite direction, but that's what we will do when the time comes, with Jean-Luc Mélenchon and my friends from France who are insoubted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u77	You know there's an election?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u78	As for the supervision of preliminary investigations, you propose a period of two years, which may be extended for one year, or three years, which may be extended for two years. For our part, we have proposed that the judge of freedoms and detention review the status of the investigation every year, and discuss with the prosecutor the appropriateness of extending it. Stop or what? Are we going to the trial phase or are we going to close the case without further action? Is there still a legitimate right and will to continue the preliminary investigation, or is it necessary to proceed to the investigation? An independent magistrate would be responsible for this; he would be some kind of judge of the investigation – some want it, but not the minister. That is not what has been done. Rather than abolishing automatic sentencing reductions, we could have taken on the task of implementing a mechanism of prison regulation, aiming to put an end to prison overcrowding once and for all, and trying to ensure that the sentence regains a minimum of meaning, including for those in prison, but that is not what we are doing. We could have considered it important to avoid criminal inflation, which consists of systematically increasing the scale of sentences – three years in prison against two years ago, 30,000 euros in fine instead of 15,000 euros, etc. – and consider initiating a reflection and making proposals with a view to achieving the prison deflation that we call for. I would like to point out that the number of people in the hands of justice is still increasing in France, while the figures for crime continue to fall. We could have affirmed the need for truly independent justice and brought the rules for the appointment of prosecutors into line with those of the headquarters, but that is not what is proposed. We could have judged that sufficient means had to be given to justice – ah no, I forgot! You've fixed justice, minister: everything is best in the best of worlds! One wonders who these rebels are, these individuals a little suspicious who dare to question this story: they are the magistrates of the judicial court of Rennes, whose assembly, meeting on 10 November 2021, voted a motion in which it "recognizes the growing gap between the theoretical numbers of magistrates of the seat of the judicial court of Rennes and its real needs". It looks like Bernalicis in the text! Surprisingly, I thought everything was better! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What else could we have done? For example, rather than generalizing departmental criminal courts, we could have imagined – while maintaining existing assize courses and juries and giving them more resources to increase the number of hearings scheduled each year and shorten waiting times – thinking about opening up the possibility, for certain offences, of appointing popular juries in correctional matters, in order to involve citizens more closely in the work of justice. This is not what you are doing: in the end, civil justice, in the case, unfortunately comes to a standstill, while it represents three quarters of the activity of the judiciary. But we will rectify the situation no later than next April.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u79	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u80	The reform we are looking at in the compromise text of the Joint Joint Committee continues the great ambition to restore confidence in our citizens in the judicial institution. Yet, far from the Government's stated objective, we see in this text an umpteenth reform, challenged by the professionals of the justice system, who denounce a project "cradle - tote", "without ambition" and "unwritten". Above all, as the general states of justice have just opened up to, to believe you, "recast justice", is it not premature, if not inappropriate, to adopt this reform urgently? However, agree that the government's agenda is inextricably inconsistent. In substance, your reform is in a state of departure from the reality of the needs of justice. In our view, the provisions provided for in this draft are not conducive to restoring confidence and may even, for some, further degrade its image by making the procedure more complex. Of course, the text contains interesting measures, including the prison employment contract,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u82	... the strengthening of the adversarial system during the preliminary investigation, or the recording and distribution of hearings – even though we regret, in this regard, that our amendments aimed at ensuring the ethical nature of the use of these recordings have not been adopted – but these measures do not stand in the way of your renunciation of, in particular, the reform of the prosecutor's office. We also condemn your project to contain measures that contradict the stated objectives of pedagogy and bringing citizens closer to justice. We are thinking in particular of the generalization of departmental criminal courts, which seals the abolition of assize courts in most cases. The extension of these criminal courts is simply the "death of the court of assizes" to take up the words you uttered a year ago, minister. At that time, you added, not without reason, that "justice in this country is done in the name of the French people and the people are excluded from it". You added: "We no longer want the popular jury in this country. » Similarly, we consider that the new so-called incentive regime for sentencing reductions will be ineffective or even counterproductive. In addition, we believe that it is essential to ensure that the lawyer's professional secrecy is unique both in his defence and in his advisory role, without weakening the fight against tax fraud, corruption and the trafficking of influence, as well as against the laundering of these offences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u83	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u84	That's precisely the goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u85	With regard to the tightening of the offence of illegal taking of interests adopted in the Senate, we are, to say the least, circumspect. This offence will now be characterized if a public official has an interest "in such a way as to compromise his impartiality, independence or objectivity" in his decisions, whereas so far the Penal Code merely evoked "any interest". We must at the very least stress, as the fact Transparency International France does, that "we are in a rather new situation of a minister charged with a crime that we are going to relax in Parliament. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u86	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u87	Finally, we deplore the fact that civil justice is the great forgetfulness of this bill, while the litigation that it has to deal with – family affairs, litigation of proximity, responsibility, construction, banking law – place it at the centre of the lives of our fellow citizens. In 2019, 2.25 million decisions were handed down in civil and commercial matters, compared with 1.13 million criminal cases. As you know: Civil justice has more than 10,000 cases in stock – a stock that continues to grow, while average trial times are steadily increasing. This slow pace has concrete consequences for the daily lives of our fellow citizens. The criticisms addressed to the justice system are thus, rightly, linked above all to these excessive processing periods, for which France has been punished on numerous occasions by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). I know you are convinced, minister, but there is no provision in the text that would shorten these deadlines. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Claudia Rouaux also applauds]] For all these reasons – and that will not surprise you – the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will again vote against this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u88	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u89	We have said this and repeated it in the course of the debates: trust is not decreed. It is built, brick by brick, on solid foundations and on structural elements that cement the relationship between litigants, legal professionals and public authorities. This is the purpose of this bill, whose sixty-six sections are bricks that will make the "Justice House" a building of trust. We will build trust through transparency and pedagogy, allowing all our fellow citizens to see the exercise of justice with their own eyes, through a television screen. Confidence will be ensured by strengthening the adversarial nature and setting the duration of preliminary investigations, which will be limited to two years, or three years, for cases that will require it. Confidence will depend on the definition of new trial conditions, particularly for perpetrators of rape. I also welcome the fact that we have reached a consensus within the Joint Joint Committee on the perpetuation of the well-established departmental criminal courts. Confidence will also be strengthened through the experience of honorary magistrates who will complement the judicial training of criminal courts. Trust in the popular juries, strengthened in the assize classes, will be confirmed. Trust will require a better effectiveness of justice. This will crystallize around the abolition of the call to the law, so criticized by our fellow citizens, as it is identified as a symbol of impunity: it will be replaced by a procedure of probation accompanied by a probationary penal warning. Trust can only be built if the criminal justice system works for reintegration and gives meaning to the prison sentence, which must not be reduced to a mere parenthesis in a course of delinquency. That is why we propose to remove automatic sentencing reductions and to create a prison employment contract to promote and regulate work in detention. Finally, trust will require the strengthening of the ethics of legal professionals and the end of a certain self-interest that prevails in disciplinary proceedings. On the basis of a text already provided, Parliament has played its part in amending and refining the proposed provisions, both in the Assembly and in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u90	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u91	We have also put on the table highly symbolic questions, absent from the original text. I am thinking of the provisions advocated by our colleague François Jolivet for the review of old criminal proceedings in the case of confessions obtained by the use of torture, with reference to the Mis and Thiennot case. I am also thinking of the provisions against arbitrary detentions supported by our colleague Pierre-Alain Raphan in tribute to Michel Thierry Atangana. How, moreover, can we not mention here the education centres, so dear to the rapporteur Stéphane Mazars? [["Ah"! on the benches of the LaREM group]] And then there is one provision that we will have debated until the end: the one relating to the professional secrecy of lawyers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u93	The National Assembly unanimously enshrined in the preliminary article of the Code of Criminal Procedure the indivisibility of the secrecy of defence and counsel. It is we who have made this decision, which is a considerable step forward in protecting a secret that is too often misguided. Our honourable senators, clumsyly, pointed out a question that we could not ignore:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u94	That's nicely said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u95	[[Rapporteur Stéphane Mazars and Nicole Dubré-Chirat applaud]] ... the need for the necessary means to prosecute tax fraudsters, in particular when they act with knowledge. It is in the public interest. It was our duty and responsibility to find a formulation that would reconcile the different interests involved. We did so by adopting a wording which was certainly not unanimous and which could be clarified, but which had the merit of existing, when we had waited so long for a proposal from the first concerned. In the last two weeks, we have heard everything about the secrecy of lawyers: he would be sacred, flouted, emptied of his substance. You have, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, made the exceptional decision to revert to the agreement reached in CMP. The text you are proposing clarifies the points which have been at the heart of the discussions of the Joint Joint Committee: the indivisibility of the secrecy of defence and counsel is enshrined; under the authority of the judge and in accordance with the prerogatives of the batonier, secrecy may be lifted when documents prove their use for the purposes of tax evasion, misappropriation of public funds or corruption. As is clearly understood, there will no longer be "safes" or "instrumentalized" lawyers – notions that had not been mentioned in the Assembly or in the Senate. Let us not open the door to interpretation disputes and concentrate our resources on the prosecution of the most fearsome financial offenders, that is, those who are notified. That is also our responsibility as legislators! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the amended text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u96	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u97	Restoring confidence in the judicial institution is a huge task! It is legitimate, even indispensable in a democratic society, because only decisions emanating from a respected institution can be accepted and guarantee civil peace. Such a text should at least have been unanimous among legal professionals, with the aim of valuing their work. Was it necessary to legislate at the risk of suggesting that we were trying to impose a trust that, in reality, must be won? If this question could arise at the beginning of our work, it is no longer questionable that this bill was necessary to ensure a better understanding of each other's role, a better articulation of each other's functions and more structured relations, therefore more serene, between the actors of justice. It was also important to ensure faster investigations and instructions and to better regulate the management of sentences – including detention – in order to put an end to the countless criticisms of the current system. Recognition of the work of prisoners is necessary in order to achieve their indispensable reintegration, as is the need, after lengthy discussions, for the generalization of criminal courts, which still face some criticisms of principle but are unanimous among those who have experienced them. I would not have bet on the success of these experiments, but I must say that they are unanimous. The reason therefore requires us, for the sake of the uniqueness of justice in the national territory, to generalize them. [[Smile on the benches of the commissions]] [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] When experienced people say with one voice that an instrument is good, it is our duty to listen to them. On the other hand, when, in a different way, these same professionals tell you "yes" then "no", then "yes but no" or "no but yes" or "we'll tell you", "we know", "we don't know anymore", "we won't say anything", "you take your responsibilities", it's up to us to take our responsibilities and decide, acting at best for the general interest and not for a multitude of different individual interests. You've been following the news of the last few days, the issue of professional secrecy has agitated the judicial world. Judges find the safeguards of lawyers far too protective when they see the disappearance of their professional secrecy. It is up to us to ignore these excesses to draft the law. It is obviously fundamental in democracy to protect the lawyer's professional secrecy, and any other solution cannot be acceptable. No, once this text is passed, it will not become possible to search the law firm or the home of a lawyer,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u98	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u99	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u100	... since the adoption of Article 56(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure in 1986. No, once this text is adopted, counsel's professional secrecy will not disappear. On the contrary, the preliminary article of the same Code will enshrine it, making its protection a principle that is binding on all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u102	No, the introduction of exceptions is not synonymous with an unprecedented breach of professional secrecy. Those who doubt it will only have to delve into the reading of the decisions of the Court of Cassation to realize that the jurisprudence is much more dangerous for the lawyer's professional secrecy than the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u103	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u104	The aim has always been to dialogue, listen and co-build this text. We heard the lawyers at the first reading. Many of us have alerted them at the end of the Senate review. We worked together. It must be noted that there are many differences and that the question of representation of the profession should legitimately, and in its interest, arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u105	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u106	By means of contradictions and changes of position, she managed to unite the two chambers which had yet a different reading of the question of the protection of professional secrecy. [[Ms. Laetitia Avia applauds]] The deletion of this article would have been a serious mistake. Tomorrow, defence and counsel will be protected and strictly supervised. The search will be subject to control by the JLD in the presence of the stickman, and the decision subject to appeal. We do not want, and have never wanted, to jeopardize the lawyer's professional secrecy, which is indispensable, intangible and indivisible. The lawyer is not the thug or accomplice of the thug as some would suggest. Article 1.5 of the national rules of procedure, to which every lawyer has acceded, reads as follows: "In all circumstances, caution requires the lawyer not to advise his client if he is unable to assess the situation described...". Where the lawyer has reason to suspect that a legal transaction would have the object or result of committing an offence, the lawyer must withdraw from the file. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] Does the text provide for anything other than the very strict supervision of legal proceedings which a lawyer who has failed to comply with the obligations of his oath and those of the national rules of procedure could be subject to? We have not legislated to jeopardize professional secrecy, but to protect it absolutely, to frame it better, more and in accordance with the principle of adversariality. Practice will demonstrate this very quickly. We owed it, not to lawyers, but to the beneficiaries of the said secret, the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u107	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u108	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u109	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee to propose a text on the remaining provisions of the bill for confidence in the judicial institution. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. The Government's amendment No. 6 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u110	I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u111	It's about solicitor-client privilege. I will try to be as precise as possible, so my speech will be a little long, I beg you in advance to apologise for it. First of all, I want to remind you of my personal commitment. I have been a lawyer for 36 years, which is the basis for my legitimacy as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u112	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u113	I've been fighting every breach of professional secrecy. When, in 2014, the Court of Cassation decided that a lawyer and his client were not protected by professional secrecy because the client had not been charged and/or in police custody, I wrote, in particular with Pierre Haik and Hervé Temime, a petition that collected 10,000 signatures in France and abroad. I had written at the time to all the parliamentarians lawyers – some of you may remember that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u114	It's not about lawyers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u115	The batonier of Paris had promised that a law would be presented on this subject – we were then in François Hollande's quinquennium – but it was not. I would like to reiterate this: no one can say that the professional secrecy of lawyers is not a principle that I have blazed to the body. Before embarking on this legislative work, which we conducted together, I set up a working committee on this issue, composed of eight lawyers, who had no prior intention of being the fosseurs of the professional secrecy of their peers. The committee has produced a balanced report and we have got to work. I have introduced this bill, which has undergone some changes throughout its legislative process, which is quite normal because that is how things are designed. In this country, it is Parliament that makes the law, and no one else. As far as professional secrecy is concerned, we have all agreed. The text will be the subject of some additions on the board, and I will come back to that. Finally, a concluding CMP was held. We have heard procrastinations from the very mouth of those we wanted to protect: "yes", "no", "perhaps", "perhaps not", "it is true". I want to say, because that is the reality, that my door has always been open and I have met a very large number of times the representatives of the bar to try to walk with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u116	That's not the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u117	As far as the professional secrecy of the defence is concerned, that is what this text brings. From now on, it is not the public prosecutor or the investigating judge who will decide a search but the JLD. It was a strong demand of the bar: we did it! We have taken into account the legitimate idea, advocated by lawyers, that the judge responsible for examining the situation should be removed from the investigations or investigation. The lawyers wanted an appeal against the decision of the judge of liberty and detention with respect to the seizure of documents. That, too, we have done. This text allows an appeal against validation by the JLD to be brought before the President of the investigating chamber. We have planned that the searches will be specifically motivated when the lawyer himself is called into question. That is an additional degree of protection. The relationship between the lawyer and the client – listen to me carefully – is covered by secrecy even before the opening of criminal proceedings, since a 2014 case law which had considerably restricted the protection that is owed to the defendant. I must also state that if a document is discovered during the client's search, it will be protected as if it had been discovered at the lawyer's house. An appeal by the client himself to the JLD and to the President of the Investigation Board will be possible. Also as part of the strengthening of the lawyer's professional secrecy, the consultation of fadettes will be equated with a telephone listening, which was not the case in the past. I also need to be specific about the advice. It must be said that counsel's secrecy is finally enshrined and protected in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has never been the case so far. This is an undeniable step forward. However, it must be made clear – and there is all the ambiguity that some have no desire to dispel – that counsel's secrecy does not enjoy the same constitutional and conventional protection as defence secrecy. This explains the three exceptions cited for the following offences: terrorism, tax fraud and corruption. I say here, with full responsibility, that no Frenchman would understand that it would be otherwise. Today, the ECHR condemned Estonia in a Särgava judgment against Estonia, in which it recalls, on the one hand, the importance of procedural safeguards to protect the confidentiality of exchanges between the lawyer and the client and, on the other hand, that the European Convention on Human Rights does not prohibit lawyers from imposing certain obligations which may affect their relations with their clients, in particular in the context of the fight against certain practices. Here we go. The Government's amendment seeks to provide two clarifications. Yes, the stick will always be present during the searches. It was enough to read the text to convince one another. However, some believed that there was a doubt about it and that the alleged absence of the sticker – whose presence was so important, especially during the searches – was likely to restrict the protection of the lawyer's professional secrecy. I say it clearly here: the text will remove any ambiguity even if – pardon, but I assume it – it is a little talkative. Obviously, no one has ever intended here to prohibit the presence of the stick – or, worse, to suppress it. The second clarification relates to paragraph 2, which we may consider too broad and too imprecise. It should therefore naturally be deleted. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On this question, I have always listened and have always sought the challenge. Last week, I wrote to all the batons asking them to distribute a letter that I had written for the attention of all their colleagues. I owe it to the truth that, among the answers I have received, many lawyers have expressed their satisfaction. I naturally take note of the position expressed by the NBC. However, in conscience and responsibility, I want to devote, together with parliamentarians, the major advances that I have just outlined to you. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u118	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u119	Thank you, Minister, for allowing us to defend this specific subamendment. Article 3 presents itself as a rather confusing long sentence, and it seems to us essential that non-lawyers, too, understand the law. Even if the text concerns lawyers, and there are many lawyers on these benches tonight, the article is not only for these professionals, but also for the people who are litigants. It is not clear that evidence of fraud or attempted laundering is established under the control of the JLD. If the Government's amendment is adopted, we believe it is necessary to clarify that the evidence is found by the JLD. What we understand is clearly stated! You will reply that the sub-amendment is satisfied; He probably is,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u120	Well?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u121	... but it is not necessary to give up the inclusion of precision in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u123	Indeed, the sub-amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u125	You are convinced of this yourself and the keeper of the seals will repeat it to you. Of course, it is the JLD that will assess whether the document can be seized and charged in a criminal case. Unfavorable opinion. On the other hand, it is in favour of the government amendment. Mr Keeper of the Seals, the amendment completes a long but necessary process. It was necessary to do a useful work in an area that deserved the legislator to take over. All too often, the case law had given rise to the professional secrecy of lawyers, including in the defence of the interests of their clients. Now is the time to tell you that you have listened to Parliament. Indeed, your bill did not deal with professional secrecy, but with that of the defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u126	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u127	It is exclusively on this subject that you have referred to Parliament, and it is to the National Assembly that, on the well-informed recommendations of the lawyers, all the political groups present here have asked the Government to extend the protection of defence secrecy to the professional secrecy of lawyers in its entirety. From now on, the secrecy of the defence will be put at the same level as that of counsel. The provision was passed in the Committee on Laws unanimously by the Members who represented all the groups. As for you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, when it was not your original project, you issued a wisdom opinion that allowed the device to be adopted. The text then went to the Senate, the members of which wished to distinguish between defence and counsel, and to reserve to it the exceptions still present in the text, namely the possibility of making certain documents enforceable in the presence of tax fraud, corruption, money laundering related to these two offences, or acts of terrorism. The agreement we reached in the Joint Joint Committee was criticized by a profession that considered us to be in breach of the full professional secrecy of the lawyer, ignoring the work we had done here and in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u128	It's in the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u129	Your amendment states that the procedure will have to be carried out in the presence of the stickman, who will ensure its regularity, as it should be. This seemed obvious to us, but the profession wanted it to be written black and white in the text. The amendment also deletes the second exception provided for by the Joint Joint Committee, which had not been discussed or voted on, either in the National Assembly or in the Senate; So I don't think it has to be a problem. It seemed to us, within the framework of the CMP, that this element could be of interest to practitioners such as lawyers – this is the famous hypothesis of the lawyer "safe", which Laetitia Avia mentioned, where the lawyer can be abused by his own client who protects himself behind the professional secrecy offered him by a law firm. We are told that the provision is too general and too complex; by deleting it, you do not violate the substantive work done by the parliamentarians of both chambers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u130	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u131	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] As rapporteur for the text, I find that your amendment does, on the contrary, completes this work. The text deserves to be implemented because, at the end of the day, it will be the litigants who will win, since both the secrecy of the defence and that of the council are reinforced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u132	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u133	I am delighted to be able to discuss it, because I believe in our exchanges. You say that yourself, Mrs Untermaier: the sub-amendment is satisfied. You will know it; I'm saying it. I hardly see who else the JLD could control the seizure and search authorization. Which other magistrate could take his place, while the whole text indicates that it is his role? Of course, another magistrate may intervene, the president of the investigating chamber, but only in the event of an appeal against the decision of the JLD. Therefore, I suggest that you withdraw the sub-amendment; If you don't, you'll understand that I'm sending an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u134	On the vote on the ordinary bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u135	I am in favour of the sub-amendment because it introduces a clarification to say the least. I don't understand the discussion, or rather I understand too much how we got there. After consideration of the text by the National Assembly, we had reached a version that was suitable for all political groups. In theory, according to the Constitution, the last word belongs to the Assembly. Now we are in a situation where, de facto, the last word is for senators, because they wanted to change the text slightly, without changing it in depth. Hence a ubiquitous situation in which the Minister writes to the lawyers' associations and the institutional representatives of lawyers, in particular to the NBC, to tell them that he gives them three options; They choose one, but it's a fourth one that's being discussed tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u136	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u137	It's lunar! I do not understand: the arguments that Antoine Savignat put forward in the general discussion are correct. In the current state of law, and even with the first reading version of the National Assembly, it was not possible for a lawyer to commit or incite an offence. On these grounds, searches would still have been possible. It was just stated that in the fight against economic and financial crime, it was not possible to conduct random wholesale fishing, by going to search, tap or use other procedures against a particular law firm, hoping to find a financial offender.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u138	Please close, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u139	An offender must first be caught by the offence he has committed; Otherwise, we undermine the professional relationship between the lawyer and his client, because everyone can become a suspect. I therefore do not understand why this amendment is being discussed:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u140	We get it, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u141	...the version of the National Assembly was excellent and I wish we could stick to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u142	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u143	I do not want to prolong the debate because we find ourselves in an unprecedented situation where, after a concluding CMP, we continue to debate the text. When we became aware, very late, of the Government's amendment, we were many, coming from different groups, to question its meaning; We had to read it several times to understand it. Of course, we're not lawyers, but that's why our eyes are interesting. It states: "... provided that the consultations, correspondence or documents, held or transmitted by the lawyer or his client, establish proof of their use for the purpose of committing or facilitating the commission of such offences. But by whom is the evidence found? It has to be by the JLD. I find it regrettable that a few words cannot be changed without the concurrence of the Senate, because they have not been planned. The sub-amendment is, of course, satisfactory, but we must at times make clear the obvious, so we keep it. As far as the government amendment is concerned, the discussion is open. The Socialist and related group will not vote for it: despite the progress made on the framework of the derogation, the mechanism, which allows to circumvent the professional secrecy of the council, resembles a drifting net.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u144	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u145	Even if the amendment is presented today, its content reproduces the text of the CMP, amputated by a part and enriched by a clear clarification of the prerogatives of the sticker. So we're dealing with a text that was published more than two weeks ago. I will not go back to the incredible history of professional secrecy, but the amendment updates three elements: listening to the guard of seals during the examination of the text, the consensus between the two chambers on the objective to be achieved and the common will to put an end to the procrastinations on the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is above all a question of putting an end to the fantasies of some, which imagine an absolute secret, the law firm being like a sanctuary, and the fantasies of others, who imagine that there are safes in the law firms which contain information stamped "secret" and which cannot be touched by anyone. It is a balanced provision, which is part of our constitutional law. It protects litigants, citizens and lawyers, but it will not protect lawyers who are complicit in crimes or financial offenders who knowingly use financial engineering to try to hide behind professional secrecy. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u146	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u147	A few comments on this amendment, which Members of the Republican Group will vote this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u148	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u149	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The clarification was indeed necessary, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. Unfortunately, it must be recognized that ambiguities, confusions and fantasies still surround the professional secrecy of lawyers in 2021: anything that can contribute to clarification, in the interest of the exercise of the profession and its clients, must be retained at all costs. It is to be regretted that the text of the CMP did not allow to answer all the questions – perhaps it was next to the plate. In any case, since its wording was subject to discussion, any ambiguity had to be removed, which was what the amendment was doing. We will therefore vote on your drafting proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u150	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u151	General de Gaulle said: "I go to the East complicated with simple ideas. But you should not go to the complicated professional secrecy of lawyers with simple ideas. Even if our assembly had unanimously adopted Article 3, it turns out that on the way, it was partly deconstructed, and then rebuilt by the Joint Joint Committee, before being completed by the Government in the context of a work of precision and adjustment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u153	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...which was necessary and which was accomplished. The IDU and independent group considers that the consensus between the two chambers and the governmental precision attest to the quality of the work. We will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u154	Mr Keeper of the Seals, Amendment No 2 is editorial, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u155	One word, however, Mr President, because the Mis and Thiennot case, which justifies this amendment, has played an important role in the history of our justice. Mr Jolivet, you were at the initiative of the first version of this amendment, which I could not accept for purely technical reasons; I told you, however, how much I was in favour of it on the merits and you promised to work on it. The services of the Chancery worked tremendously since we could, within hours, finally discuss this matter. The amendment is intended to replace the reference to the use of torture with the reference to the use of violence by investigators: these are old situations, governed by the Code of Criminal Investigation, in which confessions were extracted by violence but not by torture, knowing that the definition is not the same in criminal law. We would run the risk of being told that it had certainly been a matter of violence, but never torture. This correction must therefore be made in order to allow, where appropriate, the revision of the Mis and Thiennot trial. Of course, I can't say more, but I know your involvement and what you put into it. It is indeed an honour for me to support this precise amendment before national representation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You understand, Mr. President, that I wanted to talk about this case because when we talk about justice, it's not anecdotal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u157	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u158	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u159	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister, I am given the opportunity to thank you, on behalf of the inhabitants of the Indre department and also without a doubt on behalf of the entire national representation, because your fight may one day shed light on the case which led two young Gaillards to suffer, in 1946, violence in the gendarmerie of the commune of Mézières-en-Brenne and then to be condemned to the bagne; They were subsequently pardoned and referred six cases to a review panel. I am not an expert in judicial law, but it must be noted that these people have been convicted seven times. You told me, at first reading, that you felt that you had condemned them an eighth time, but I see that you are giving their families an opportunity to get satisfaction, which I thank you so much. It's kind of our Dreyfus case in the Indre department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u160	The Government's amendment No. 3 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u161	The Government's amendment No. 4 is precise and consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u162	The Government's amendment No. 5 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u163	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u164	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 66 Against 11
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u165	I shall put to the vote the whole of the organic bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-16-O1063.u166	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the proposed law to improve the protection of whistleblowers; Discussion of the proposal for an organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting. The meeting is adjourned.
