ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u1	The next item is the questions on the financial support of the State for communities with special status. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and answer at two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u2	We start with the IDU and independent group. Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u3	Mr. Secretary of State for Rural Affairs, I would like to ask the Government about the worrying situation of airlines in the Pacific communities, Aircalin and Air Tahiti Nui, who, without adequate financial support from the State, could be threatened with disappearance. In fact, despite the good financial situation of our airlines and the strong savings measures introduced in 2020, which reduced fixed costs by 20%, the situation of these airlines has gradually deteriorated. In total, Aircalin will have experienced a 91% decrease in passenger traffic and a 46% decrease in revenue in 2020. Air Tahiti Nui, who was unable to claim partial unemployment, had to set up a voluntary departure plan for 115 people and was able to benefit from an advance on the country's current account of EUR 18 million. State support through the EMP, the State-guaranteed loan, was instrumental in maintaining a liquidity threatened with dewatering by the end of 2020. However, the result is an increase in debts and Air Tahiti Nui is facing unfair competition from Air France, which, for its part, has been supported by the State. However, the crisis is going on and the recovery seems to be far away. The airlines will have to approach the year 2022 by financing a programme of flights indispensable for the revival of traffic. Additional State support, such as that received by certain regional companies such as Air Austral and Corsair, is therefore necessary to enable these companies to maintain sufficient cash flow. Beyond simple business management, the survival of these companies is of strategic importance. They play an essential role in territorial continuity and almost all alone provide the services and opening up of these territories. They are also necessary for the development of the tourism and hotel industry, particularly in Polynesia, where tourism accounts for 17% of GDP. What support does the Government intend to provide to these companies in order to ensure the continuity of air service for the benefit of the French populations and territories of the Pacific? What are you doing with their files filed with CIRI, the Interdepartmental Industrial Restructuring Committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u4	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u5	Member of the European Parliament, the state has given massive support to ultramarine airlines in 2020 and 2021: more than €550 million of aid has been granted to them, mainly in the form of loans, whether it be the EMP or the loan of the economic and social development fund, managed by the CIRI, and aid has been paid to cover fixed costs, which have been capped at €10 million in order to comply with European law. We know, of course, that because of the new travel restrictions, some of these companies are again facing a cash-flow impasse in 2021. The two companies you mentioned are also accompanied by CIRI: Air Tahiti Nui, which has 750 employees and is 84.5 % owned by French Polynesia, has benefited from a loan guaranteed by the State of 67 million euros, a loan from French Polynesia of 19,3 million euros and 10 million euros of aid to cover fixed costs; Aircalin, which has 550 employees and is 99 per cent owned by New Caledonia, has benefited from a State-guaranteed loan of €40 million and €10 million in fixed-cost support, as well as a defiance measure for the renewal of one of its aircraft, an A330neo. Both companies are now seeking additional support from the State, which the CIRI is currently studying. The Minister of the Economy, Bruno Le Maire, made a commitment in this regard that we would find other means of support than those already employed. I assure you, of course, of this commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u6	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u7	In the same vein as the previous one, it deals with internal territorial continuity. In the context of the Overseas Delegation's work on territorial continuity, it was recommended by the rapporteurs that the principle of territorial continuity laid down in Article L. 1803-4 of the Transport Code for Inter-island Movements be applied, which provides for eligibility for aid for territorial continuity for inland transport, subject to difficulties of access to the territory, a measure which only Guyana has so far benefited. Two communities, French Polynesia and New Caledonia, have put in place internal continuity arrangements to alleviate the specific geographical conditions of their territory. In this connection, I would point out that French Polynesia has a special feature of including seventy-six inhabited islands on the one hundred and eighteen of which it is composed, scattered over 5.5 million square kilometres in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. Whether Polynesia or New Caledonia, state aid could complement community support. A joint arrangement between local authorities and the State would further reduce the cost of travel. A territorial continuity fund was established in the budget of French Polynesia last December to finance the deficit lines serving the most remote islands. To finance this fund, Polynesia has chosen to contribute up to 45% and to tax the population on the price of the air ticket. In these times of crisis, this contributes to the increase in inter-island travel rates. As in the case of New Caledonia, the contribution of the State would be more than indispensable and would avoid once again involving the population, already heavily affected by the crisis, to sustain transport to the most landlocked islands and to guarantee links with our most remote populations. Mr Secretary of State, can our communities expect a financial contribution from the State to the internal territorial continuity, which is estimated today for Polynesia at €4.2 million?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u8	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u9	Madam Member, the responsibility for serving within a territory rests, in principle, with the local authorities, and not with the state, which, for its part, provides part of the cost of continuity between the hexagon and the overseas, through the territorial continuity fund. Aid under this fund may, under the derogation conditions laid down in Article L. 1803-4 of the Transport Code, finance air travel where a particular difficulty of access to a part of a territory is recognised. The aim is to take into account the lack of roads or sea lanes for access to certain places. This derogation shall be applied in particular in Guyana. Article 5 of the EROM Act, or the Law on Real Equality Overseas, provided that a report would be prepared on this issue. This report, which was entrusted to the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development and which was submitted to the Minister of Overseas Affairs in September 2018, does not represent a need to change the organisation of competences in the area of the internal territorial continuity of ultramarine communities. With the exception of very targeted situations, particularly in French Guiana, which I would like to mention again, we do not have the same problems, namely a total absence of roads or sea lanes. I am therefore sorry to tell you that this derogation does not seem to me to be very suitable for Polynesia and New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u10	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor on a third question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u11	It focuses on the adaptation, in Pacific communities, of defi-calization mechanisms. In the overseas departments and territories, the normative environment, identical to that of hexagon, represents a degree of security for investors. On the other hand, in communities with special status, tax status, organization and jurisdiction, different from those in the hexagon, are real barriers to investment. Our territories first and foremost need incentives to cross the investment path. This logic has already been adopted in the past – I am thinking in particular of the Scellier Pacific scheme, introduced in 2010 in favour of rental investment. In recent years, we have proposed such adaptations by tabling, with Philippe Dunoyer, amendments to the PLF, the finance bill – I am thinking of the interim rental investment scheme, or the Pinel scheme, or the modalities for determining the eligible base for the renovation of social housing. I had also made proposals on the benefit of investment aid for cruise ships. Contrary to what one might believe and as revealed in Philippe Gomès' report on the overseas defiscalisation, the tax expenditure associated with the overseas defiscalisation has fallen by 36% since 2010. This decline appears to be a reflection of adverse blockages to overseas investment. What our communities need is not so much an increase in tax expenditure as a greater flexibility in adapting tax incentives. The state must be able to provide active support to Pacific businesses and to promote all growth levers in these territories. Mr. Secretary of State, is the Government prepared to develop tax incentives to make them more effective in Pacific communities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u12	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u13	Honourable Member, I note that there are enough tax expenditures to support overseas investments, particularly in Pacific communities. I would point out that these various aids are being brought together in a dedicated public policy of tax aid for overseas investment, the AFIOM, a mechanism that does not exist in the hexagon and attests to the importance that the Government attaches to this modality of support for the ultramarine economic fabric. I will give some examples that apply in the Pacific. Productive investments made overseas by companies qualify for a tax deduction on IS, corporate tax, equal to the cost price of these investments. You also know that in the COMs, or overseas communities, the construction of rental housing can benefit from a 50% tax reduction in the cost price of such housing until 31 December 2025. You also know that this aid applies to the acquisition and rehabilitation of housing, and that the Finance Act for 2019 opened this mechanism to the social housing stock in Tahiti, Saint-Martin and six municipalities in New Caledonia, including Nouméa. I would also like to draw your attention to a number of recent developments which, I believe, are in line with your intervention. The 2021 Finance Act introduced a new defiance mechanism, which aims to neutralize the effects of the decline on corporate tax in the COMs and New Caledonia. Indeed, the downward trajectory of corporate tax, with a target of 25% in 2022, has the effect of reducing the incentive nature of the tax advantage I quoted earlier. We have therefore put in place a new tax reduction system in place of the old one, so that the scheme remains incentiveful. The BIA, or initial finance law, for 2021 also eased the conditions for the defiance of cruise ships, so that more ships would be eligible. You are asking us for a reform that goes in the direction of flexibility. It seems to me that the actors in the Pacific communities have all the tools in hand to invest and commit themselves fully to recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u14	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor on a fourth and final question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u15	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the situation of State officials in New Caledonia and Polynesia and to future reforms in the areas of indexation, pensions and return. In 2015, the Court of Auditors described indexation as a breathless system, weighing heavily on the state budget. This additional remuneration is essential to enable the persons concerned to meet the primary needs in territories where the cost of living is particularly high. According to INSEE, between 2010 and 2015, food prices in New Caledonia experienced an inflation rate of around 14 per cent, compared with only 5 per cent in the hexagon. In 2015, consumer prices in New Caledonia were 33 per cent higher than in hexagon and far higher than in other overseas territories, such as Réunion or Mayotte. In this context, unindexing should not be presented as a tool to combat expensive living. Overpayment retains today, and more than ever, its relevance in offsetting the extra cost of living and maintaining the attractiveness of the territories. It is both an essential guarantor of the maintenance of purchasing power and a guarantee of support for local economic life. However, savings can be achieved by favouring the return or assignment of staff from the Territories concerned. However, many civil servants from Caledonia and Polynesia were denied their assignment to their territory of origin after some time in the Hexagon. The amplification of the oceanization of executives is, however, an absolute necessity, both in the interest of the agents and in order to meet the dire shortage of personnel suffered by the territories. The presence on the ground of public servants who are fully aware of the local context and culture can only be an asset to our communities as well as to the relationships with the public. Parliamentarians continue to intervene to advocate for this well-deserved return to our territories. Is the Government prepared to introduce a strengthened strategy to accompany the winners of the national competitions and to guarantee their return to our territories for the performance of their duties, by clearly revising the procedures for obtaining the criteria of the CIMM – the centre of material and moral interests – as advocated in Olivier Serva's report on the return of civil servants?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u16	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u17	We are well aware of the problem of consumer prices overseas. In its latest survey, which dates back to 2015, INSEE estimated that, according to the territories, they were 7% to 12.5% more expensive than in metropolitan France. This observation explains that officials of the overseas affected State receive increased remuneration, according to different coefficients depending on the territories. However, I would like to make it clear that this increase also compensates for the costs associated with the remoteness of the metropolis. The cost of these measures is EUR 159 million: EUR 67 million is linked to indexation for the cost of living, and EUR 92 million to compensation for remoteness. That ultramarines want to return to their original territory is a good thing, but it is also important to ensure a minimum of mobility: working in different places is a source of professional wealth. Moreover, the melting pot between officials with different profiles, which come from both hexagon and ultramarine territories, is salutary for France. We are of course ready to look with you how to encourage the return to their original territory of the Ultramarines who wish to do so. The training component is important, as recruitment into the public service is based on rank and function. There are many mechanisms of vocational training, general or specific to the territorial civil service. Should we go further, in order to take better account of ultramarine specificities? With your help, the Government can look at this point more closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u18	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u19	I take this opportunity with this debate to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the fragility of the economic situation in Wallis and Futuna. I am speaking here for our colleague Sylvain Brial, who is currently in Wallis, and to whom I extend all my friendships. The Wallis and Futuna Islands were affected late by the covid-19 epidemic. The health situation there is now stable, but the fourth phase of the deconfinement has just been extended by security. Perhaps even more so than elsewhere, the crisis has highlighted and accentuated economic fragility. Companies face real difficulties and recovery is slow. In the recent budget collective, we proposed the creation of a fund dedicated to Wallisian and Futunian companies, but our amendment was rejected. We therefore need to find other solutions, because the economic situation remains worrying and requires the strengthening of our strategy for these islands. The Blue Book of the Overseas offers some avenues that we consider useful to explore. In the area of public procurement, support and adaptation could be provided to boost local economic actors. Today, large public projects, such as the construction of high schools or hospitals, do not retain local companies which, at best, find themselves relegated to the rank of mere subcontractors. Why not adapt the law of public procurement to the ultramarine territories by going further than the EROM law, in order to make public procurement available to local TPEs and SMEs? Finally, this reform could be combined with greater tax relief for companies investing in Wallis-et-Futuna. One answer could be the establishment of a free zone in Futuna: what is the Government's position on this issue? Here, Secretary of State, there are three ways to dig: I have no doubt of the attention you will pay to them. This territory, although the furthest from metropolitan France – 16000 kilometres separate us – must not be forgotten: the Wallisians and Futunians are our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u20	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u21	Thank you for drawing attention to the very special situation of the Wallis and Futuna Islands, which, although located on the other side of the globe, have suffered the covid crisis like the others. Moreover, they have not been forgotten in the measures decided by the State to support the economic fabric. As such, I would first point out that Wallisian and Futunian companies are eligible for the exceptional aid schemes established as early as March 2020, such as the Solidarity Fund, but also the partial activity scheme, which was adapted to local specificities and renewed in 2021. Thus, the "whatever it costs" obviously applies both to Wallis-et-Futuna and to the hexagon – fortunately, indeed, since it is, as you have pointed out, a territory of the Republic. The aid provided by the State was supplemented by an action of the territorial assembly, which introduced a flat-rate aid of 1000 euros on average for each company closed during the confinement of March 2021. The State is also committed alongside the territory in the framework of the France Recovery Plan and the Ségur de la santé, which will, in particular, allow the complete rehabilitation of two hospitals, for an amount of 45 million euros. Your group had intervened urgently on this subject. The case, which had repercussions for the sick, some of whom had had to be evacuated to New Caledonia for treatment, was pending: it was proof that the funds mobilized in the context of the recovery enabled the rapid completion of operations which everyone had long known were necessary, but which were not committed for lack of resources. The France Relance plan will finance other major projects in the Wallis and Futuna islands, such as the construction of the building of the territorial assembly in Futuna or the rehabilitation of high schools, thanks to a budget of 17 million euros released by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. This will enable local businesses to work and prosper. In total, the amounts committed to France Relance for the territory amount to several tens of millions of euros. I also hear your request for the establishment of a free zone: I will inform Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for Overseas Affairs. You know me well enough to know that I have never been a great zealator of these kinds of mechanisms, because I doubt their effectiveness. Indeed, they can produce a boon effect and do not always result in a very balanced local development. However, of course, we are prepared to hear the other proposals that could be made by both your group and the parliamentarians in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u22	We come to the question of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u23	I am asking this question on behalf of my colleague and friend Gabriel Serville. The Guyana Agreement of 21 April 2017 reopened the debates on the constitutional evolution of Guyana, which, after merging its General Council and its Regional Council, is now ready to move on to the next stage towards more autonomy. Thus, on 14 January 2020, the Congress of Elected Representatives of Guyana adopted a resolution to refer the Government to initiate the democratic process aimed at enabling it to become a community with a special status, sui generis, which would enable it to leave the straitjacket of articles 73 and 74 of the Constitution, while remaining an integral part of the Republic. Seventeen months later, however, the Government had still not responded to that referral, and the Guyanese elected officials did not see the shadow of popular consultation on the horizon. Moreover, in view of the weakness of the support provided to the present territorial community of Guyana (CTG), the question of the financial support provided by the State for this future community has already arisen. Indeed, with a budget of 600 million euros, the CTG does not even have half of the funds available to the community of Corsica, which nevertheless has a similar number of inhabitants. It is therefore, to say the least, an indigent budget when compared, for example, to the 650 million euros of the original budget of the Guyana family allowance fund. Moreover, once the operating costs have been deducted, the community has less than €180 million of investment each year to catch up with 30 years of delay in infrastructure development, while at the same time its population has increased by 33%. Gabriel Serville's question is therefore twofold: how is the process of changing the status of Guyana towards that of a community with a special status? What about the financial accompaniment of the State, while the territory is in a state of total abandonment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u24	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u25	The status of Guyana, which is specific and different from that of the territories of hexagon, is now governed by article 73 of the Constitution. This status already allows it to introduce a large number of public policies, and there is nothing to prevent it from going further in the exercise of certain powers. As such, the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as the 4D bill, provides for measures specific to Guyana, particularly in the area of land. Other measures could also be taken at a later stage. The health crisis interrupted the work that was to take place after the January 2020 Congress of the Elected Members of Guyana. They resumed locally during a working session held on 14 April at the territorial community of Guyana. It was important to complete these reflections, in order to refine the project desired by the Guyanans with a view to a new congress. We are not closed to institutional developments, which will have to be defined: the definition of a sui generis status, which would place the community halfway between the statutes provided for in articles 73 and 74 of the Constitution, will involve, in due course, further discussions. As you know, there will be no constitutional review until the end of the quinquennium. Nevertheless, we can take stock after the congress: I will let you pass on the message to your colleague Gabriel Serville. With regard to the financial aspect, I would point out that since 2017, the State has introduced numerous measures to support the territorial community of Guyana: transforming a loan of 53 million euros into a grant, aid for the financing of colleges and high schools for 9 million euros, exceptional allocation of 50 million euros in 2017 and 2018 to finance the RSA. The recentralization of this social minimum starting in 2019 has helped relieve the community from one of its most burdensome burdens. The financial conditions are therefore advantageous and proportionate to the difficulties encountered in the territory. However, these measures have not been sufficient to address the long-term challenges faced by the community, which is known to suffer from both a lack of resources and a strong need to refurbish its management procedures. That is why, since 2019, the Government has wished to leave a management process, and launched with Guyana the negotiation of a structural agreement: the community will have to commit itself to improving its management, in exchange for which the State will commit itself to supporting it financially for the long term. As the State and the Association Régions de France agreed last year, this state effort could be complemented by an increase in equalization between regions. Finally, the State has signed a recovery agreement with Guyana in which each signatory undertakes to mobilise 125 million euros, in an exceptional effort to develop the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u26	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u27	As we know, the health and economic consequences of the covid-19 crisis remain of concern. In order to contain its effects, the Government has quickly introduced previously unprecedented support measures, which have ensured the visibility necessary for the revival of local public investment, for which a historic budgetary effort has been made by the State. Our ultramarine communities with special status, so sensitive to consumption, had seen their fiscal resources greatly reduced, whether it was the proceeds of the granting of the sea or the internal consumption tax on energy products (TICPE). Thus, in addition to the compensation measures, the State has allowed them to spread their exceptional expenditure related to the health crisis over five years, in order to guarantee them higher tax revenues than they received between 2017 and 2019. Like all of our communities, Guyana, Martinique, Mayotte and New Caledonia have thus benefited from national solidarity. New Caledonia has been able to benefit from a loan of EUR 240 million, which was fully guaranteed by the French Development Agency, the extension of the Government's mechanism to assist very small enterprises, and the possibility for all enterprises or similar companies to apply for a State-guaranteed loan. More recently, the draft amending finance law for 2021, which is currently under consideration in Parliament, provides for exceptional assistance of €82 million to New Caledonia to cover the expenses incurred by the four-year scheme, thereby restoring financial room for manoeuvre to the community. In addition, are other measures planned to further accompany these territories, the specificities of which require special care? I am thinking in particular of the tourism sector, which, although the health situation is improving, will suffer from the impact of seasonality and, notwithstanding the partial lifting of the imperative grounds since 9 June, from the consequences of the administrative restrictions on movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u28	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u29	Communities with special status and, more generally, overseas communities, were able to benefit from the mechanisms established by the State in 2020 to guarantee local revenues. First of all, the municipalities were able to benefit from the tax revenue safety net. This guarantee includes, of course, the revenue linked to the granting of the sea which, in the overseas departments and regions – DROM – accounts for more than a third of the municipal tax revenue. As such, and as a result of a 9% decrease in the sea allocation in 2020, 17 DROM municipalities received €3 million. In addition, we have introduced protections on the granting of the sea and the TICEP, the product of which is perceived by the overseas regions: as such, 35 million euros have been released for the benefit of Guadeloupe, Martinique and La Réunion. A similar system is provided for all the tax revenues equivalent to these two taxes levied by Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, the municipalities of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy, as well as the Wallis and Futuna islands. We do not yet have the results, but they will of course be transmitted to you as soon as they become available. Certain mechanisms will be renewed in 2021, including the guarantee on municipal tax revenues. This will be supplemented by the compensation provided for in the draft amending finance law currently under debate in Parliament for certain public authorities. This measure may concern DROM communities and COMs. With regard to the taxation of regions and communities with special status, the analysis of the revenue situation will be carried out during the year; the Government will draw the possible consequences at the end of the year. Finally, in addition to tax aid, the lines of credit in the Recovery Plan total EUR 1.5 billion for the Overseas Territories. As for the future plan to win back the tourism desired by the President of the Republic, we cannot announce precise measures at this stage, but the idea of relying on tourism is nevertheless excellent. There will be exceptional provisions for overseas, and you can count on me to convey this concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u30	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u31	Secretary of State, I would now like to ask you about the long-term financial support envisaged by the Government. The health crisis highlighted structural weaknesses: when the first confinement led to the introduction of distance learning, it became apparent that ultramarine schools had less digital equipment. At the end of spring, some schools did not reopen, with on-site courses only starting again in September, while the school population reached their maximum capacity. Some communities with special status, such as Guyana, have 30 per cent contract teachers and are struggling to reduce illiteracy. The information report on education in the overseas departments of demographic depression, submitted on 1 June to the Assembly's overseas delegation, recommends that ultramarine academies be included in the national experiment aimed at developing territorial policies adapted to the diversity of regional and local needs, but also to grant them additional funding – in order to double all classes of CP – preparatory course – and CE1 – elementary course – in the priority education area and to increase the number of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH), a burden that communities no longer manage to provide. The differentiated financial support of communities with special status must also apply to other areas, such as the health sector, which has many specific features in these territories. The demography of Guyana or Mayotte is very different from that of hexagon, and even those of Guadeloupe or Martinique. These particularities call for strong support from the State. In order to strengthen health measures, regional health agencies (RHAs) could further support the development of local health contracts through increased numbers of staff. The criteria for allocating human and financial resources in the overseas communities should therefore be considered in order to remedy the structural backwardness of these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u32	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u33	You call my attention to two topics: education and health policy. They are not precisely within my ministry; However, the Government is providing them with very important resources for the benefit of both overseas and hexagonal communities. Let's start with teaching. In 2017-2018, during the overseas sieges, our ultramarine compatriots placed teaching at the forefront of their concerns. We answer them with deeds. The duplication of classes within the priority education networks (REP), according to the commitment made by the President of the Republic at the beginning of his term of office, is not far from being completed: at the beginning of 2020, it concerned 97% of the CP classes in REP and REP +, the strengthened priority education networks, as well as 92% of the EC1 classes in REP and 96% in REP +. At the beginning of 2020, we began to divide kindergarten classes: the national education budget provides an effort of €216 million, from which overseas also benefits. In addition, we adapt our responses to the needs of the territories. In Guyana, for example, the State has been deploying a pre-professionalization scheme since the beginning of 2019: students enrolled in the second year of their degree are offered a three-year contract that allows them to gradually enter a career as a teacher. With regard to the adaptation of health policies, the national health strategy 2018-2022 includes a component dedicated to the Overseas Territories, setting general priorities, such as improving the health status of mothers and children or reducing diabetes, either territorialised – access to safe drinking water and sanitation for all in Wallis-et-Futuna, Mayotte, improving access to care and guaranteeing vaccination coverage that protects the population. As for the means of the ARS, the allocation of the Wallis-et-Futuna agency, for example, rose from 38 million in 2017 to almost 48 million in 2021, plus the massive investments that I reported earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u34	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u35	I take advantage of this debate to mention Paris, which has been a community of special status since 2019, exercising both the powers of the municipality and those of the department. Although it redistributes to the other communities a share of its wealth, in accordance with the solidarity of the territories, many feel that it has considerable financial and human resources: more than 50,000 civil servants, a budget that exceeds 9 billion euros. However, as elsewhere, the health crisis has led to a decrease in revenues, including transfer fees, and an increase in some expenditure. According to the city council, the crisis would have cost the city's finances about 800 million, or about 10 per cent of its annual budget. It happens that the State is very present in the territory of Paris, if only through the police prefecture or the AP-HP (Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris), it has therefore been particularly requested in this capacity. In addition, it has provided aid to Paris, as to all other communities. I wish, Mr Secretary of State, that you could tell us more about this financial support provided by the State during the crisis to the City of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u36	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u37	With regard to the consequences of the health crisis on the budget of the City of Paris, in 2020 the operating section recorded a deficit of 260 million, i.e. a deterioration of 656 million compared to the previous financial year, which had resulted in a surplus of 396 million. Between 2019 and 2020, revenues declined by 5.9%, while expenses increased by 3.3%. As you have pointed out, Paris is a community with a special status that combines communal and departmental powers: it therefore falls within the scope of the guarantees adopted in order to protect the revenues of the municipalities and those of the departments. As the proceeds of the transfer fees for consideration (DMTO) collected in 2020 by the City of Paris are below its average between 2017 and 2019, it will benefit in July from a repayable advance of 23 million. On the other hand, the sum of its tax and government revenues was not lower in 2020 than its average between 2017 and 2019, thus depriving it of a safety net compensation; Moreover, it will not be the only community in this case. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations, and the Delegate Minister for Public Accounts, have again authorized the city to resume in its operating section the surplus of budgetary investment, up to the amount of the capitalized rents, that is, nearly 45 million. I would also like to point out that it is budgetaryly recording DMTO's revenues later than it is cashing them, so as to make a kind of pear for thirst: it is still 100 million that the community could as well immediately, without any other inconvenience, titrate in order to improve its financial situation. In addition, the recovery plan has major effects; 1.4 billion was allocated to the territory of Paris, including 887 million cuts in production taxes, 237 million thermal renovations of the State buildings, 236 million actions of the Ministry of Culture. The city also received 60 million grants for its investments: 10.5 million DSIL (support for local investment) and 14.2 million for the recovery, 10.1 million DSIL and DSID (support for the investment of the departments) for energy renovation, etc. The outlook for 2021 seems better, thanks to the recovery of gross savings – 382 million in the primitive budget adopted by the city at the end of December. Of course, our discussions with the town hall continue: recently, on the occasion of the city's presentation of its multi-annual investment programming, the mayor has made proposals which we will not fail to examine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u38	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u39	Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about New Caledonia, the status of which is very special to everyone. We have followed the latest news: representatives of most of the territory's living forces have travelled to Paris, at the invitation of the Prime Minister, to discuss his future. After several days of discussion, Loyalists and Independents agreed to set 12 December 2021 for the holding of the third and final referendum on self-determination; In this way, the people of Caledonia will decide whether or not to remain in the Republic. It is therefore useful to recall what the latter represents in practice. Its presence is manifested first of all by that of the 2000 officials who structure public intervention. The State supports private investment, which is a challenge when it takes place in the productive sectors: in total, more than €1.5 billion is invested in this territory each year. Its partnership with the institutions of Caledonia includes long-term actions in the context of rebalancing policies, with higher rates of intervention for the benefit of the Northern Province and the Province of the Loyalty Islands, or the formation of Caledonian cadres. However, the crisis that we have just experienced has imposed on both the state and the public authorities in general unusual modes of action, which are even less so in communities with special status, because of this very status. Mr Secretary of State, my question will be simple: in the context of the health crisis, could you tell us what specific arrangements New Caledonia has benefited from?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u40	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u41	Like all our territories, New Caledonia has received the unwavering support of the State in order to deal with the financial consequences of the crisis. In 2020, the Agence française de développement (AFD) lent 240 million to him, as well as to French Polynesia; This amount was considered somewhat insufficient, as the territory assumed both the economic support measures and the organisation of the fourteen days of isolation of travellers. Given the exceptional volume of these expenses, and even if these expenses were not within the jurisdiction of the State, the Government decided to provide additional support of 82 million. The corresponding budget appropriations are included in the draft amending finance law for 2021, which the National Assembly has just adopted. Beyond the crisis, the recovery also mobilizes important resources. Fifteen grants were paid to the municipalities for the thermal renovation of their buildings: they represent a total of 1.74 million, out of the 3.15 million that the project will cost, a grant rate of 55 per cent, well above what is observed on average – these allocations tend to be around 25 per cent or 30 per cent of the amount of the investment. There are, of course, the traditional means: the provision of equipment for rural areas (DETR), which benefits all the municipalities in Caledonia and which this year amounts to 6.6 million, or the European Investment Fund (EIF), under which the Ministry of Overseas Affairs will have paid 5.4 million in 2020-2021. Finally, without emergency or recovery, the State contributed 78.5 million in 2020 under State-New Caledonian development contracts, financing the projects of the Caledonian communities in areas as varied as social housing, basic infrastructure, public facilities, health, culture, youth, vocational training, economic development, sustainable development and research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u42	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u43	My question will be about the particular status of the City of Paris, already mentioned earlier. Paris has a budget of 10 billion euros a year, which is not nothing. In order to discuss the consequences of the health and economic crisis that we are experiencing, I would have appreciated the fact that the minister concerned, first and foremost, Mrs Gourault, would give us the honour and pleasure of her presence – with the expression of my sympathy, Mr Secretary of State. For more than a year, local and regional authorities have been at the forefront of the crisis: they assume their responsibilities and act to guarantee our citizens the continuity of quality public services. In the face of the social, economic and human damage suffered by the French, they have been mobilized for more than a year. In Paris, this damage is flagrant: the events, culture and tourism sectors, which provide a livelihood for more than 200,000 people, have collapsed. While the city reached almost full employment in 2020, nearly 40,000 jobs were lost, the unemployment rate increased by 15.7% and the number of beneficiaries of the RSA increased by 14%. However, the community has developed multiple mechanisms to support economic, cultural, tourism, associative actors, and particularly vulnerable audiences. This is why the City of Paris is a front-line actor, indispensable and above all responsible. However, this situation has a cost, Mr Secretary of State, linked both to the increase in spending, necessary to respond to the crisis, and to the decrease in the revenues of the communities, due to the reforms of the local taxation that you carried out and the total absence of support from Paris during the crisis – contrary to what you mentioned earlier. Nearly 1 billion euros: this is the current cost that the City of Paris alone suffers. It has made investments of more than €1.4 billion to boost its economy, but it will receive only 4% of this amount from 2021 – yes, you have heard: 4%!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u44	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u45	If your Government has promised a €100 billion recovery plan, how can you ignore the decisive role of communities in investing? How can you so despise the City of Paris as well as other big cities like Lyon and Marseille?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u46	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would first like to say to you, Madam Member: the Government is represented on this bench by a Secretary of State. I do not believe that one question, because it concerns the City of Paris, should be dealt with by the appropriate minister, while another, because it concerns another community, should be dealt with by a more rural secretary of state like me. The remark you made is unbearable from the point of view of democracy and institutional representation, which you know well, given your previous functions. Beyond the answer I made earlier to Pacôme Rupin, on which I will not return, I note that there is a discussion at the moment between the City of Paris and the Government on all the issues related to the crisis. I humbly admit that I do not know to what extent the members of the Paris City Council are involved in this dialogue; No doubt you also ignore the details of some of the negotiations in Paris. In any case, you cannot say that the City of Paris was the first support for the local economy, since the State paid €3.3 billion to Paris under the Solidarity Fund. The first support of the economic world was indeed the state, it is a reality. It is true that revenues are declining and wealth criteria are reflected in all the schemes we are putting in place, but it is not my fault that some communities are richer than others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u48	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Without interfering in the finances of the City of Paris, which is perfectly autonomous, I stress that the rate of the property tax on built properties (TFPB) is set at 13% in Paris, while it is 38% in all cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants in France. A 1% increase in the TFPB would allow an amount equivalent to twice the investment budget of departments such as the Hautes-Alpes, where I live. This is a simple remark about the difference in wealth between some communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u50	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u51	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State, and take note of the fact that the proposals made by the executive of the City of Paris will be taken into account by the Government in early July, as you mentioned earlier. You know very well that so far, your Government has swept these proposals away from your hands, choosing not to hold them back and not to take action on them. Have at least the honesty of speaking sincere words so as not to mislead those who listen to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u52	It's in both directions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u53	As I had the opportunity to mention, communities were front-line actors on which you relied extensively when it came to managing the health crisis – which you were not able to do at first. After that, as you pointed out, the Government has put in place mechanisms to support economic actors, which we welcome. Nevertheless, it seems to me that it has also relied on the cities. The City of Paris, in particular, set itself in order of battle very quickly to provide hydroalcoholic gel, masks and individual protections, for a total amount of 50 million euros. It also had to compensate, by means of rent or royalty exemptions, for the continuation of activities or even of certain public services. It seems to me that this too, you forget to mention it. The City of Paris also supported the establishment of 24 immunization centres, while the Government's campaign was skating. During the last question-and-answer session of the Government, Mr. Véran was silent on the success of the vaccination campaign. Yes, we can say today that the campaign is going well – what my group has recognized – but after how long and at the cost of how many deaths? I would like to ask you today, Secretary of State: allow communities to continue to deal with the crisis by taking on your responsibilities and not by opposing departments or cities to each other. It is true that some have more resources than others, but Paris being the capital of France, we have every interest in it not being financially on its knees. Indeed, the economic impact of this situation would be important not only for the city but also for our country as a whole. The decrease in tariff revenues for the municipal block is now EUR 1.3 billion, as the urban France association has noted. However, the government's compensation schemes for communities amount to EUR 200 million in the framework of the draft amending finance law (PLFR). So the account is not there, Secretary of State. Let me remind you that, during the consideration of the 2021 finance bill and the PLFR currently under discussion, the Socialist groups of the Senate and the Assembly have proposed different solutions to cushion the shock on the finances of the communities and the City of Paris. You have not listened to us: you have swept our proposals without even hearing them. I note, however, that you will give them a positive response in July or, at least, that you will be ready for an exchange on this subject. As the national representation examines the PLFR for 2021, I thank you for ensuring that the mechanisms for compensating the revenue losses for the communities and for repaying the advances made by the City of Paris instead of the State will be properly implemented, as was the case at the height of the crisis. Thank you for your tolerance of the length of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u54	I would like to point out to the majority that I saw agitating as soon as Mrs El Aaraje spoke, that she did not receive any preferential treatment; The Secretary of State will have the opportunity to speak just as much as she does. I have just learned that Mr Veran, who is to succeed Mr Giraud on the bench, will probably be a little late. You also benefited, Mr. Rupin, from more time than the time allotted. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u55	I will not go back to the answer I had given to Pacôme Rupin and which I had also given to your first question, Madam Member, but how can you say that your proposals are all swept away? I will take the example of the residence tax; This is a subject that I know very well because it was I, as the general rapporteur of the budget, who ensured that institutions that had not paid for it until then were subject to it – which was the first beneficiary of the city of Paris. I have also ensured that the amount of compensation is calculated in relation to the last reference, the highest, and take into account the additional contribution I have just mentioned. It seems to me that, in the framework of the PLF for 2021, the City of Paris's collection of the residence tax is thus increasing by 2.5 million euros. I therefore know the case of Paris; There was also a time when I received letters of thanks from the municipality for acting in favour of the city. In fact, I had acted in favour not of the city but of the fairness of accommodation, which was desired by the City of Paris. Investment grants amounting to EUR 60 million were also made available to finance the projects presented by Mayor Anne Hidalgo. It is difficult under these conditions to say that the proposals have been swept away – or I lose my Latin! You also know that there is a difference between the costs of vaccination, on the one hand, and the overall costs of the covid-19 crisis, on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u56	Who haven't been reimbursed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u57	May I continue?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u58	Madam Member, please let the Secretary of State speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u59	You seem to know some rules; I respect them, I who was only born in a province bled of 2000 inhabitants. You know that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health will pay the extra costs associated with vaccines. The minister said it and repeated it. You also know that there are currently exchanges between the City of Paris and the regional health agency on all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u60	We're talking about a billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u61	I sincerely believe that the City of Paris should not be referred to as the atoning victim of a government policy. Compensation has been implemented on the basis of objective criteria. It can be considered that the criteria chosen are too hard for the richest cities – that is, those that have lost the least money, in proportion to their usual wealth. Still, we continue to refine the device, as you know perfectly well. A working group between the City of Paris and the Government will make it possible to propose compensatory measures where there are obvious problems. This is the case in Paris, but also in some cities in the suburbs of Lyon. When there is a small hole in the racket, we try to fill it with compensatory measures; That's what we're doing and we're doing it with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u62	I would like to point out, for those Members of the majority who are very attentive to speaking time, that the Secretary of State has also gone well beyond two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u63	This has been the case since the beginning of the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u64	But after all, he's a mountain man, like me! Mr. Lecoq was the only one who was disciplined.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u65	Thank you for recognizing him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u66	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u67	We are asking you today, Mr Secretary of State, at the initiative of our Caledonian colleagues in the IDU and independent group, about the financial support provided by the State of the communities with special status – communities as diverse as the metropolis of Lyon, Guyana, Corsica, Mayotte, the City of Paris or New Caledonia, of which we must acknowledge that they have little in common. Indeed, the definition of this status is very specific – hence its name – and is built by default: the communities with special status are territorial authorities not falling within the three categories of municipalities, departments and regions, but not overseas authorities governed by article 74 of the Constitution. In addition to the complexity of the various statuses and competencies associated, diverse and multiple, these communities do not share the same territorial sociology and seem to face the same needs and problems at first glance. This makes their common status completely indefinable. Hence my first question, Mr. Secretary of State: how can we give readability and consistency to such a discordant group of communities that have been built up as different territorial laws are applied? I wonder about the possibility of implementing financial support – the main subject of this debate – and about its quality in the face of such a diverse group. The disparities between these territories are such that I even doubt the relevance of the concept of a community with a particular status and the criteria that define it. The networking of French communities and the accompanying administration do not seem to allow an informed reading of our organization and, therefore, even less of the state funding associated with it. While several of my colleagues are working on simplifying the procedures and administration in France, in response to a very strong demand from the French population who have been wanting greater readability for years, should specific statutes such as that of communities with special status be maintained? Is the state thinking about simplifying the statutes and reorganizing the different types of communities through, why not, a constitutional amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u68	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u69	France brings together so-called "common law" communities – some of which are governed by the principle of legislative identity under article 73 of the Constitution and others by the principle of speciality under article 74 – to which New Caledonia, which enjoys a specific title in the Constitution, and seven communities with special status, which are recognized in the Constitution, and which are distinguished by the singularity of their institutional organization and the powers attributed to them. These are Guyana and Martinique, whose respective regional council and general council have merged, Mayotte, which has no regional council, the community of Corsica, the metropolis of Lyon, the city of Paris and finally the new European community of Alsace. I admit that this diversity can be a source of complexity, but it seems to me to correspond to the idea that we are trying to defend, with Jacqueline Gourault: that of a unitary republic in which the organization of communities can be differentiated, in order to adapt to the identity of the territories. You will recognize that these different territories have very different identities, including cultural ones. Some Overseas Territories, such as Réunion Island, have never wished to have a special status because of their attachment to the Republic. On the question of status, questions of tradition, projects and culture take precedence. The desire to simplify in order to simplify does not seem relevant to me as elected and local residents today aspire to exercise their skills more freely without doing so exactly as those of the community next door. The category of communities with special status allows, in a number of cases ultimately limited and corresponding to singular realities, to push the logic to the point that the organization itself can be modified to take account of a particular situation. In my view, the vast majority of French communities are not intended to go so far, thanks in particular to the so-called 4D bill – deconcentration, decentralization, differentiation, decomplexification – which will already bring them flexibility. By doing a little comparative European law, we can see that some of our neighbours – which are not federal states – are organised taking into account the cultural and identity particularities of the different regions that make up them: I am thinking of Italy where the partially French-speaking Val d'Aosta and the German-speaking South Tyrol do not have the same skills. I believe that, in the same way, the diversity of the different territories of France must find its place within the unity of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u70	This first question-and-answer session is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u71	The next item is the questions on the theme: "The hospital: what organisation, what funding? » I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u72	Since 2018, the four parliamentarians of the Hautes-Pyrénées, the mayors of Tarbes and Lourdes, respectively president of the supervisory board of the hospital of Tarbes and Lourdes, as well as the president of the departmental council, are unanimous about the need to bring to fruition the project of a joint hospital Tarbes-Lourdes, which has been too late. In fact, building this joint hospital is crucial in order to sustain the public hospital offer of short stay throughout the department of Hautes-Pyrénées. In October 2020, following the two presentations of this investment project to the Interdepartmental Committee on the Performance and Modernization of the Supply of Hospital Care (COPERMO), you confirmed to the department's elected officials the opportunity, and the need, to carry out the project, as well as the eligibility of this dossier for national aid. Given the current budgetary situation of the two hospital centres, it is indeed essential that the State make a financial contribution of at least 50 % in order to make this operation, whose cost is estimated at 210 million euros, feasible and to ensure its financial sustainability over time. Last January, during an official visit of the members of the Government to Tarbes, you promised to give us a reply on this issue within ten days. At the beginning of February, when I interviewed the Government in an oral question-and-answer session without debate, I was told that no formal decision had yet been taken. On 1 June, you answered a topical question asked by Joël Aviragnet telling him that you would have good news to announce this summer for the hospital group of Tarbes-Lourdes. As you pointed out at the time, these cities have been waiting for a hospital investment for years – during which the hospital community has been working hard on this project. Has the Government finally taken a final decision on the construction of the common hospital in Tarbes-Lourdes at the Lanne site? If so, what about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u73	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u74	I confirm that an announcement will be made shortly about the hospital project – important for the territory – that you are referring to. I recall that this project, to which the region – that is, the RSA – gave priority, had passed the first stage of COPERMO when the health crisis occurred. Since then, we have removed COPERMO to replace it with the National Health Investment Council (NHIC), an independent scientific council that conducts evaluations to determine the most suitable project for this site. Funding has been sanctified, but further discussions between doctors, caregivers and engineers are needed to describe the new hospital before concluding the contract for its construction. Support has been put in place, which will focus mainly on securing the medical strategy, but will also help the actors concerned to find ways to ensure the sustainability of the new structure. I would point out that, given the very poor financial situation of the two current hospitals in Tarbes and Lourdes, this project will be supported financially. If I cannot make an announcement since we entered the pre-election reserve period, I can nevertheless tell you that, in the coming months, good news will confirm the construction on a single site of a beautiful hospital that will reach consensus, that will be financially supported and that is a priority project for the territory, I said, but also for my ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u75	The Bearnais are going to be jealous, Minister! Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor for her second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to my first question. The health crisis has shed a raw light on the failures of our health system, which have been the result of an inadequate policy for a long time – at least forty years. This suffering of the public hospital, the French are now well aware of it and it is to these citizen voices that hospitals are now calling for a fundamental reform of the hospital system. Indeed, after the strikes and demonstrations, the Inter-Emergences and Inter-Hospital collectives, through the association Our Hospital, it is you!, now seize the constitutional tool to make their demands heard. They recently announced their intention to launch a shared initiative referendum (PIR) in favour of a law to ensure that equal access to quality care is the foundation of health policy for the public hospital – an initiative that I support, along with many other parliamentarians. The times of crisis often prefigure great reforms for the future, and that of the covid-19 undoubtedly leads us to question a fundamental reform of the public hospital. Of course, at the end of the Ségur de la santé, you have announced necessary salary adjustments, and the Social Security Financing Law (LFSS) for 2021 has confirmed the resumption of one third of the hospital debt by the Social Debt Depreciation Fund (CADES) to give the public hospital the financial margins necessary for the investment of the daily, but this does not solve the question of the shortage of staff or the suppression of beds, denounced for years. The activity pricing (T2A) introduced in 2008, as well as the budget savings measures voted annually under the FSL, are largely responsible for the deterioration of the financial situation of the public hospital. Unfortunately, the use of the daily rate as a tool to regulate the national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) also encourages hospitals in this direction. Hospital rates are gradually being reduced by their actual cost, placing hospitals in increasingly critical financial situations. Minister, when is a structuring debate to prefigure a broad reform of the way the public hospital is financed and finally to emerge from the concept of hospital-business?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u77	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u78	I could give you an answer in an hour, honourable Member, but unfortunately we do not have time. As you said, we are increasing the salaries of healthcare workers in the hospital – by 9 billion euros – we are making careers more attractive, and we are not just taking over a third of the debt, since we are also putting in place a massive investment plan of 19 billion euros that will allow, among other things, the construction of this famous Tarbes-Lourdes hospital. Hospitals are being built, modernized, renovated and changed governance. This last point, constituting another pillar of the Segur, has been taken into account in the context of the bill by Stephanie Rist, who is in the Chamber and whom I welcome. The reform implemented makes it possible to recreate services and strengthen cohesion within the institutions, to change the way in which staff are represented, in particular by giving meaning to the work of caregivers, which is very important. In terms of funding reform, our goal is to get out of the "all T2A" – which we have begun to do. The share of funding for quality of care has increased, a share of funding allocated to population responsibility has been introduced by your vote and is being put in place – and we have maintained a small share of funding for activity in order to maintain dynamism in the operation of certain types of services. In addition, this year will be the year of the entry into force of the major reform of the financing of psychiatry, as well as of the financing of follow-up and rehabilitation care. We are also working to refurbish funding for critical care, resuscitation and emergency medicine. The hospital is really moving, and I don't think we need a referendum of popular initiative to keep it changing as it has never done in years or even decades. We intend to continue to make the hospital a good tool for the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u79	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u80	With my question, I do not intend to reopen the debate on the hospital strategy, on which we have different views. I will start by making a point before asking you to clarify certain points. As you know, the public hospital was on the front line during the health crisis. Caregivers have demonstrated exemplary dedication, intelligence, dynamism and a great ability to adapt to everything. However, the management of the shortage has its limits and, for several months, hospital staff have been demanding resources in beds and staff. The Health Segur agreements signed in 2020 have not met all expectations, particularly with regard to the reopening of beds. If you have reopened 40,000 beds on request...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u81	No, 4000!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u82	Indeed, 40,000 would be too beautiful! If you have reopened 4000 beds on demand, therefore, you have closed 7600 beds during the same period, which raises questions, as well as the fact that after the announcement of 15,000 jobs, made under the Ségur, 28 positions of hospital practitioners are currently vacant. The public hospital needs a shock of attractiveness rather than a reorganization that is often only the pretext for a merger of means leading to the closure of services. Minister, have you made provision for ways to increase the number of beds and staff? Are you going to ensure a thinner mesh of the territory, so that every Frenchman can access a hospital in less than 30 minutes? Will you develop health centres to combat medical desertification and the need to medicalize EHPADs? That's a lot of questions, I admit, but I thank you for at least clarifying some of them...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u83	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u84	Yes, I may have to pick up your questions, Mr. Member of Parliament... With regard to beds on demand, I had asked for 4000 beds to be opened in one year, and I can tell you that 2856 beds were opened in the last winter – we had not had a positive record in years, I would remind you – for the benefit of 249 hospitals. I would add that EUR 50 million will be spent each year on the opening of additional beds at times when health tension will justify it. I also confirm our goal of recruiting an additional 15,000 personnel. Soon after a year from Ségur, I consult all the federations and colleges of health institutions, all sectors, which tell me that if there are still very strong tensions, there is also a recruitment movement in our hospitals, which we can only welcome: we will therefore continue our efforts in this direction. I repeat, the deal has changed. While 7,000 beds have been closed, it has not been in recent years, but over the last two decades, due to changes in practice, the development of the ambulance and accounting and economic logic. We now have an ONDAM, a social security budget and a care budget that had not been so high in a long time. Recruitment will take time because doctors and nurses need to be trained – to do so, nursing training institutes (NIFIs) are being renovated. We want to open a large number of health centres – a quantified goal has been defined – structures that I believe in a lot, and for which I am very committed, as are the communities; Similarly, the number of multi-professional health homes is increasing significantly. We are working on the territorial organisation of care between the city and the hospital, particularly with the territorial professional health communities (CPTS), as well as on the governance of EHPADs, as we have seen that the EHPADs with good medical governance were stronger during the health crisis. The world of health is changing very quickly and very deeply, Mr. Member. It will take time for everything to be consolidated and visible, but our intention – which I know is shared – is to continue on the same path without going back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u85	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u86	My question is about the need for funding for the public hospital. The health crisis acted as a revealing factor and, after several social security budgets under the sign of budgetary austerity for our hospitals, the Government was caught up in the reality: the underfunding of the public hospital service, denounced for many years by trade unions and health-care collectives, was no longer tenable. While financial resources have been made available within the framework of the Ségur de la santé in favour of health care providers and hospital facilities, it is now necessary to continue the effort made – which we recognize – to ensure a strengthened and sustainable funding of our health system, breaking with the current model. Our first proposal is to end the closed envelopes, defined annually in the framework of ONDAM and which have shown their limits. Instead, let us fund the health system by allocating resources according to arbitrated health objectives in consultation with users, trade unions and caregivers. Second proposal: let us definitely remove activity pricing, which leads hospitals in an activity race to cover their operating costs and replace it with population endowments, which take into account the health needs of the population in each territory. These measures could be financed by the allocation of new resources, for example by limiting tax exemption schemes – I am thinking in particular of the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE), which strikes the budget of the health sector by EUR 22 billion, with no significant effects on employment. My question will therefore be simple: what is the Government's position on these proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u88	We would be before the signing of the agreements of the Ségur de la santé, and I would reply to you that there should be additional financial room for manoeuvre. But, I say again – repetition is necessary in this type of debate – EUR 19 billion of investment and recovery of hospital debt, it is new and is equivalent to the two hospital plans voted over the last fifteen years by the left and the right, increased by 50% – and that at one time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u89	I didn't vote either of the two plans you're quoting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u90	That's too bad, Congressman. I understood that the left sometimes struggled to unite: I suffered it and I still see it today. To return to the subject we are interested in, this investment plan is massive. I have been visiting France for a few weeks to announce that this or that hospital will be modernised or rebuilt: this is an important moment in the lives of hospitals. Two to three hospital projects are launched each week, including major projects such as Lyon, Nantes and Nancy. Nancy's case is emblematic: the resources allocated to the consolidation of hospital sites risked leaving the new structure in a situation of financial tension; In addition, the closure of beds and the downsizing of staff were planned. Well, we've decided to give this hospital more resources, not only to cancel the bed closures and the removal of posts, but also to open beds for follow-up care and rehabilitation (SSR). You imagine that when you go there to make such announcements, they are well received. Another example is the hospital of Brignoles, whose emergencies, renovated when Marisol Touraine was Minister of Health, are brand new; Except that the building behind it is completely obsolete and that the over-motivated teams who work there complain of having to work within such a structure: they are right and we now have the money to help them and to renovate their working tools. The envelope for daily investments and left in the hands of the healthcare teams to allow them to buy equipment or to ensure a better comfort for both healthcare providers and patients, has increased from 150 million euros per year to 650 million – remember! This profoundly changes the situation: the question is no longer one of the means – which are provided by a very high ONDAM – but of how to speed up the transformation of the hospital from within, particularly in terms of governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u91	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u92	My questions focus on two types of hospital services. The first concerns the nurses who work in resuscitation and whose representatives I received a few days ago in my permanence, where they came in a constructive spirit. The Government has done a lot for the hospital recently, as well as for its staff – I would like to thank you for this – through the Segur agreements, the exceptional measures in the context of the health crisis or the redemption of hospital debt. However, the more announcements there are, the more frustrations, often legitimate, even though, I insist, the action taken should be welcomed. The crisis of the covid-19 highlighted the services of resuscitation: in order to cope with the influx of patients, many nurses had to be assigned to posts without having received sufficient specific training, not only because we were in emergency, but because, simply, such training does not exist. However, these professionals perform particularly technical acts on heavy cases: handling toxics, intubation, dialysis... all of which require competence and dexterity and require special supervision. It is therefore necessary to create training for paramedics in resuscitation in order, on the one hand, to certify and recognise their skills and, on the other hand, to encourage vocations and to retain them in these services which are undergoing a significant turnover. The duration of training of a nurse in advanced practice (IPA) or in university master's degree is however too long to suit in this case. It is therefore up to us to innovate in order to take into account the specific tasks of these personnel. They have developed avenues for reflection, such as the introduction of short courses, lasting a few months, at the university with periods of internships or validation of experience (VAE). How does the Government intend to meet their needs in this regard? Do you have any leads for the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u94	Many caregivers, who are not at all experts in intensive care, critical care or resuscitation, have come to help their colleagues during the epidemic waves – and that is happy. Hospitals have deployed practical training for them – by means of simulations, online courses (MOOC) or internships: for example, how to return to ventral decubitus patients who are in acute respiratory distress syndrome or how to practice cannula care on tracheotomized patients. This illustrates an appetite of caregivers for versatility and transversality. We want to rely on this feedback – what is called the retex – to maintain reinforcements for the duration, if necessary. A mission of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs (IGAS) will shortly give its conclusions on the general functioning of critical care and resuscitation: how many units are needed, what should be the modalities, how many caregivers are needed? At present, we have 2,000 nurses specializing in resuscitation services, i.e., a nurse for two and a half beds; the goal would be to reach a nurse for two beds. I await the conclusions of the IGAS report; It is clear that we will draw lessons from the crisis to consolidate resuscitation services. It will also be necessary to change the funding system: too often it is said that the resuscitation service loses money in the hospital, which makes no sense. We need to strengthen these structures and we will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u95	Mrs Sarles has the floor to put a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u96	It deals with fire safety services in hospital centres and the recognition that the officers are asking for – again, my question follows a meeting I had in my constituency. There are no safety occupations in the hospital public service. However, these officers are at the heart of the operation of hospitals: present 24 hours a day, seven days a week, they carry out both fire safety missions and safety missions. In addition to this double hat, other tasks are added to the functions of these field officers, who are, I repeat, permanently present in hospital premises; They often do so at the expense of the time spent on their essential tasks. Although complementary, their safety and fire safety missions require different degrees and skills. Even if justified, the mutualization of missions is carried out without control and without recognition of the dual competence of the agents. This lack of statutory recognition leads to a disparity in rank, working conditions, missions and qualifications. For this reason, a National Hospital Fire Safety Committee has been established to seek recognition of the responsibilities of these officers, their skills and their training. In particular, the Committee requests the development of business cards for hospital safety officers and fire and personal assistance officers (ISPAS). For the time being, some hospitals have undertaken changes to accommodate this desire for recognition, as is the case in Nice, Orléans, Rennes, Lille and Grenoble. I would therefore like to know whether the Government intends to harmonize the use of these officers and to allow the emergence of a profession of security in the hospital public service, by determining at the national level the missions requested of them and the qualifications required.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u97	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u98	Fire safety officers and agents for the prevention and safety of persons and property fall within the scope of the body of workers' personnel governed by a decree of 12 December 2016 on the special status of workers and technical staff in category C of the hospital civil service. They obviously occupy a recognised place in the proper functioning of the establishments; their duties of participation in the safety and fire system are expressly provided for in Article 7 of this Decree and the level of diploma of which they hold corresponds to the jobs of category C. Training in fire safety and personal assistance services is regulated by a decree on the missions, employment and qualification of the permanent fire safety staff of establishments receiving high-rise public and buildings – I read my file because the subject is very technical. This order under the Ministry of the Interior, I do not have ministerial authority to amend it. On the other hand, officers who perform in the hospital under category C of the public service benefit fully from the attractiveness measures of the Ségur. They thus benefit from a recognition of their missions, by means of a new index bonus (INBI) of ten points increased and the agreement of 13 July on the Ségur de la santé grants them the supplement of indexary treatment of 183 euros net per month granted to hospital and EHPAD staff. So they were not forgotten in the great movement of the Hospital Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u99	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u100	We were elected exactly four years ago. Since then, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, we have taken a series of measures relating to the financing of the hospital: I am thinking of the cessation of "any funding to the activity" – the famous T2A – but also of the flat-rate financing of certain chronic diseases, the financing of community-labelled hospitals, emergency services, psychiatric institutions and of follow-up care and rehabilitation. Over the past four years, we have invested heavily in health and medical-social institutions: no less than EUR 19 billion have been voted in the latest social security financing bill to take up part of the hospital's debt and invest in its modernisation. But today, the situation has changed: we need to look at a real Copernician revolution, convergent with the health professions, by introducing a system of financing based more on the quality and relevance of care than on the multiplication of acts. Indeed, after the major health crisis that we have just experienced, hospital staff tell us – as I hear you – that they do not want a return to the world before, to accounting logic, to the famous COPERMO or to the primacy of the economy over medicine. We must therefore respond to this strong demand and reflect on the meaning to be given to the health system, without fear of questioning its principles. Is it necessary, for example, to sanctify the envelope of public hospitals in order to preserve their functioning and their teams while every year medical and non-medical professionals leave the hospital for the liberal sector and the crisis of the covid contributes to the acceleration of this process? Should we harmonize the way in which professionals are to be employed and paid? Reforming the financing of structures only makes sense if the reform applies to the professionals themselves. What are the prospects for changes in the funding of hospitals and, more generally, the health system, which will make it possible to restore meaning to the tasks of caregivers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u101	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u102	First of all, I would like to thank you again for your fundamental contribution to the evolution of the hospital world: you will have left a mark on the functioning of hospitals for the years and decades to come, thanks to the bill aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, which you defended and which was finally adopted last April. To answer your questions, we strive to increase funding to quality, by developing a battery of a dozen additional indicators. We're not going to lie, we've fallen behind, and the reasons are understandable: it would have been complicated to ask the RHAs, central governments and hospitals to get around the table to work for hours on quality indicators as part of sustainable hospital funding, while emergency services were overflowing and resuscitation services were filling up. We now resume this objective of increasing quality funding, voted in 2015 under the PLFSS and implemented progressively since 2019 through the financial incentive for quality improvement (IFAQ); We will continue to do so. The reform of the financing model for psychiatry, follow-up care and emergency medicine should also be mentioned by introducing population funding: we thus move from a logic at all to the concept of territorial responsibility with important endowments, while retaining a share of the price to the activity in order to maintain the dynamism of the teams. We will also experiment with population funding in medicine, starting in the year 2022 and we will guarantee the maintenance of an offer of community care by redefining the role and model of funding of community hospitals: Marisol Touraine had begun to do so, we are continuing this initiative that is very successful and amplifying. Finally, with regard to your questions about healthcare professionals – you link the quality and nature of the actors and organisations – I think I can say that hospital professionals have taken on the issue of quality; we will continue to accompany them. Next year should be, from this point of view, a flagship year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u103	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u104	As summer approaches, movements are heard here and there denouncing bed closures that would far exceed the figures of recent years. For example, in Mayenne, the figure of 200 closures was circulated which, in addition to involving surgery, would also affect cardiology and psychiatry. As we know, the pandemic has imposed deprogramming in order to give priority to the care of patients in resuscitation due to the covid-19, and one can understand the concern of the French – especially those whose interventions had to be delayed – at the announcement of such figures. The closure of beds in psychiatry is also a source of questioning, while the psychological difficulties – especially the distress situations of young people – have increased. Everyone understands that caregivers, who are very much in need of the crisis, need to take an annual and usual rest absolutely deserved and necessary. You recalled a few days ago that they were heroes; But these heroes need a well-deserved rest. Can you reassure us of the absolutely non-exceptional nature of these closures related to staff leave? How will patients' needs be met over the next two months? Beyond this seasonal question, I would like to go back to the freezing of the 230 bed reduction originally envisaged in the new hospital in Nantes. It was finally announced that 192 beds would be preserved. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u105	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u106	The summer closure you are referring to is exceptional and should allow caregivers to take leave – the Director General of the SRA spoke yesterday about this. As staff turnover has been strong, caregivers need to be able to breathe, in a time when hospital activity is less dense. We will be attentive to the evolution of the level of activity, but it is important that caregivers take rest after fifteen difficult months, now that the health situation allows. These bed closures are therefore temporary and concerted. Concerning the Nantes hospital, I confirm that 192 beds will be preserved as part of a medical project linked to the ageing of the population and the demography of the Nantes agglomeration. This project focuses on the CHU for the time being, but its territorial dimension needs to be consolidated to better integrate the actors in the care of the elderly and the residential shift. State funding of the Nantes UHC has been increased to 400 million euros, thanks to an abundance of 175 million euros in addition to the support originally planned; 175 million euros more, that's the Segur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u107	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u108	The health crisis that the country has been experiencing for over a year has revealed the resilience, courage and dedication of hospital staff. However, hospital staff are exhausted. As the whole of France applauded them every night during the first confinement, they now feel forgotten and disconsidered. What became of these "first of cordaeus", who were unshakeable pillars when the country was on the edge of the precipice? You forgot them. They are not satisfied with the meagre wage increases that you have been willing to make, and the funding provided in the context of the health crisis has only been used to respond to the emergency. The hospital and, more generally, the health system and its staff need long-term funding. The public hospital deserves a big investment plan. He does not need good promises, but enough beds to meet needs, and paid staff to the fair value of their work. Moreover, the State's failure to compensate for the deficit caused by the fall in social contributions in 2018 was motivated by the foreseeable discharge of social debt in 2021 and by the balance of accounts. Since the debt had been replenished as a result of the health crisis, compensation had to be made again. As Pierre Mendès France said: "To govern is to choose. Minister, make a choice about the health of the French. Choose to invest in the public hospital and provide decent living conditions for health workers. How do you plan to respond sustainably to the problems that the health care system faced during the health crisis? Do you intend to meet the wage requirements of healthcare professionals, sometimes on strike for several months, and who themselves call themselves the "forgotten of Segur"? Finally, minister, I would be grateful if you would not speak of the former government – you were then a member of the majority. The French are not fools; They know well that what could not be done at the time had a few reasons – you know them as well as I do. I would therefore appreciate it, and the French too, not to mention it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u109	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u110	I am sorry to say that, Mr President, but your last comments are emblematic of what has become of the socialist opposition in the House, particularly with regard to health. Over the years, since the beginning of the legislature, we have moved the health budget by 1.6%, 1.7%, 2.2% and 2.3%. What was the situation during the previous legislature?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u111	You can't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u112	I was there, and I say it: at the time, we did not increase the health budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u113	All right, but there was debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u114	We didn't: we didn't help the hospital for five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u115	There was no money!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u116	It was a budget choice. Today, we are making the choice to grant EUR 19 billion to the hospital: it sets us apart from the previous quinquennium, where nothing like this has been done. Rather than commending us for giving money to the hospital, and rather than committing you to work with us to go further, you say that the hospital needs an investment plan worthy of that name. While hospital salaries have not increased for five years, during the previous quinquennium, we increase them by 9 billion euros a year – but rather to say, "It's good, and let's see how we can still improve certain situations," you say it's high time to look after the salaries of caregivers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u117	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u118	I would like to tell you, since you are returning systematically to the burden: credibility, in politics, is also to be able to recognize what we have not done ourselves, what we would have liked to do, and to rejoice when others do. If I were a member of the opposition, I would have no difficulty – quite the contrary – in voting for a provision defended by the majority, when it goes in the right direction. I will not take the floor in the Chamber to reproach others for not doing anything – by asking, moreover, not to remind us that we had done nothing before! Never so much money has been invested in the hospital and in the salaries of caregivers: let's rejoice, move on to the next stage and work together, in good intelligence. I don't understand your attitude. I was a Socialist Member of Parliament, and I do not understand why you are not happy with our plan for the hospital, and why you are not supporting it with your speeches and your vote. When I go to hospitals, I note that it has the consent of the representatives of the Workers' Force (FO), the National Union of Autonomous Trade Unions (UNSA) and the French Democratic Confederation of Labour (CFDT) – I received them again the day before yesterday and the Ségur de la santé is the subject of a favourable communication from them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u119	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u120	The crisis that we are going through has exposed the rope on which some people have fired on health for many years – I acknowledge, minister, that appointments have been missed in the past. The observation is clearly shared: the health system was already at an end and the crisis overcame its last resistance. Based on this, you have launched the Ségur de la santé. I have heard you welcome the steps that have been taken, some of which are indeed positive. I do not know if the consent of the caregivers is as unanimous, total and absolute as you say, but it is true that things have advanced. I come to my questions. Could you clarify to me the application to hospital staff of the reform of the public service, known as the Montchalin reform? Until now, this staff had been excluded from the reference and labelling procedures introduced for ministries and territorial authorities, apparently because of the existence of a system of so-called free care provided for in article 44 of the Act of 9 January 1986 on the hospital service. These are benefits in kind provided in the institution where the health professional works – this is the first difficulty – and which apply to the agent alone, without covering his beneficiaries – this is the second difficulty. However, this mechanism does not work: we can unanimously recognize that it is only very little used or practically no use. Not only do few establishments apply it, but agents can only benefit from it in their own establishment. For example, a person who works in a psychiatry institution may receive so-called free care only in the psychiatry institution, thereby reducing the scope of care to which he or she has access. This is a significant difficulty. Moreover, the timetable for the implementation of the Montchalin reform seems too gradual, since hospital staff will only be involved by 2026; That's too bad. This is due to the above-mentioned arrangements, which, however, are not working. Couldn't the schedule be speeded up, especially since no employer involvement was announced? Finally, it should be noted that 22% of hospital public service employees give up care. What is planned in this respect? It would be a good idea to launch a health care survey.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u121	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u122	First of all, allow me to welcome you to the Chamber, Madam Member. Be aware that the surveys on the abandonment of caregivers to care for financial reasons are – as is the case with the rest of the French – before the introduction of the remainder at zero, 100% health. This explains why these waivers focus on hearing, optical and dental devices. The entry into force of the remainder at zero charge for these three posts considerably reduces the brakes on access to care: this will really change the situation. On the other hand, the feedback and exchanges I have had with the social partners on free care allow me to say that the scheme is working. The institutions do not put any brakes on it, and the caregivers use it: if you work in a hospital, you can take care of it free of charge, without any expense. This does not prevent caregivers from sometimes referring to city medicine or other institutions other than their own. On the other hand, the system, as designed in the 1980s, does not provide for the free treatment of caregivers in all hospitals. For the sake of simplicity and ease, and to take into account the particular pace of work of caregivers, the principle is to provide them with free care where they work. For having received all the social partners on several occasions, I can assure you that they do not ask for an extension of the scheme, even within local hospital groups (GHTs). As for the introduction of a health supplement from 2026 onwards, this claim is not originally from the social partners and hospital unions, but from other civil service unions. I discussed this with Amélie de Montchalin, and we considered that, in the interests of consistency, the scheme should be extended, including to the hospital public service, from 2026. We therefore do not restrict hospital access to new rights; On the contrary, we are opening them a right that they have not asked for, and that is even a debate for some of them. Let me tell you my view of the extension of the health protection of French people, whether they are caregivers or not: we are meant to strengthen health insurance rather than supplementary coverage – this is another debate, on which we could certainly find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u123	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u124	Under the Social Security Financing Act for 2004, activity pricing has, in fact, encouraged institutions to favour – if not multiply – the most cost-effective examinations and care, to the detriment of less rated disciplines and patient support. In this sense, the T2A runs counter to the principles of improving and simplifying the care pathways of the French, which initially motivated it. Launched in the spring of 2020, the Ségur de la santé has set itself the goal of reducing the share of T2A by below 50% by 2022, including by diversifying the funding arrangements for the hospital. In this context, the Government has proposed to experiment, over five years, with mixed funding consisting of a population-based endowment, an activity-based and de facto payment, and quality funding for medical hospital activities. Article 57 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 provides that voluntary health institutions, upon request, may benefit from this scheme. A decree in the Conseil d'État must specify before 31 December 2021 the modalities for the application of this experiment: conditions for entry into the scheme, possible financing arrangements, methods of evaluation... Since the issue of hospital funding is as urgent as it is technical, could you tell me where this decree is being drafted and when it will be published? What are the number and nature of voluntary health facilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u125	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u126	The Social Security Financing Act for 2021 has indeed introduced the possibility, for those institutions that wish to do so, of having their medical activity partially financed by a base allocation limiting the share of revenues to the activity – that is the objective that we are pursuing. This measure was to enter into force by 2021, for a period of five years. The guarantee of financing which I extended until the end of December 2021, under which the decline in the activity of the institutions does not result in a reduction in their budget, has made the interest of experimentation very weak, if not almost null, for the year 2021, since it secures the revenues of the institutions more than the law provided for. In order to simplify agencies and institutions, as well as to secure the financing of hospitals, it was decided to postpone the application of the scheme to 2022. The implementing decree will therefore be published at the end of 2021; you will then know the list of the establishments concerned and the modalities of the experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u127	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to put her second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u128	One of the two major missions of the RHAs is the steering of public health policy in the region, including anticipation, preparedness and management of health crises, in conjunction with the Prefect. This mission was brutally highlighted by the crisis of the covid-19: while the ARS should have developed mechanisms to respond to it, did not anticipate it, in the general opinion, did not prepare anything and did not manage the emergency. The report by Jean-Carles Grelier and Agnès Firmin Le Bodo on the evaluation and monitoring of social security financing laws (MECSS) revealed the existence of a dual chain of command, consisting of a health watch unit led by Santé publique France, and an ad hoc cell. Such an operation raises many questions, not to say a total incomprehension. However, during this crisis, it was necessary to treat the thousands of people who, every day, were infected with the virus and were in the service. The RSAs, for many reasons which need to be questioned, have not been able to provide solutions and responses within a short period of time; It was the health care professionals who had to take charge and deal with the crisis on their own. This has been seen, in particular, with hospitals which have organized themselves in a much more flexible way than usual, leaving the administrative authority of the RSA to some extent. It was this adaptability, combined with the abnegation of our health professionals, that allowed us to keep to the height of the crisis, especially in the regions most affected during the first wave. On the basis of this observation, there are many questions that can be asked. So, by learning the lessons of the crisis, what are the models of organisation, at the hospital level, that the RHAs retain in order to be able to mobilise the health system as quickly as possible during a forthcoming crisis of which, by essence, we do not know the nature? Professionals have made proposals, including the creation of ephemeral advanced service models with scalable and fast-paced personal environments. Is this option one of the options considered, not only for the resuscitation that has been much discussed, but for other services such as pediatrics or nephrology, or for any other specialized service that could be requested by a new pandemic? Above all, is it still the RSAs to answer these questions and set up these organizations? Shouldn't the missions of the RHAs be eased and hospitals should be given more autonomy in public health policy, particularly with regard to the anticipation, preparedness and management of health crises?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u129	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u130	You say that the RSAs are made up of "techns", hospitals have had to deal with themselves: I do not share these words at all and that is not at all what hospital staff tell me. Administration and caregivers should not be opposed. We needed everyone during the crisis, and everyone showed unusual reactivity. RSA officers are no less valuable than others. On the contrary, since the beginning of the crisis they have changed their profession, transformed their missions, amplified their schedules. They've been deployed everywhere. They simplified, made everything they could more flexible. It is thanks to the agents of the ARS that 600,000 to 700000 French are vaccinated every day; It was thanks to them that hospitals were able to double the number of resuscitation beds; It is thanks to them that we have been able to dispose of the protective equipment, the medicines, and that we have been able to manage, within the very large new regions, health organisations in connection with the city and the hospital, and the medico-social. I note from this crisis that the SRAs have had an indispensable role. They need to be strengthened at the departmental level, there is a need to strengthen proximity, to strengthen the link with communities, to improve governance frameworks between health and medico-social – all of which are mentioned in the experiences of the independent ad hoc commissions that have made us interesting conclusions. There is probably a need to bring the Interregional Cells (IRCs) of Public Health France closer to regional health agencies. Coordination with the prefects went very well. At a hearing by the MECSS, a prefect himself said: "Happily, it was not the prefects who were responsible for managing the health crisis but the ARS, and that we were at their side. Let us not fall into the caricature that administration is necessarily a bad thing or that it is not able to meet needs. Everyone's been rolling their sleeves, everyone's been moving around, night and day and all the time. It is this collective effort that I hold back. You're right, obviously we have to draw conclusions to reinforce what needs to be, and the work done by MECSS has been of quality. The agents of the SRA or health insurance follow our discussions; They're pretty proud of what they've been doing for 15 months, and I'm proud of them too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u131	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u132	The national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) has been the main indicator for regulating health expenditure for years. We consider that this indicator reveals a number of perverse effects because it suggests that its progression would be the only evidence of improved management and that its degradation would certainly be the translation of weakened management. The main criticism we could make about ONDAM is that it completely obscures the consideration of territorial specificities. To remedy this problem, the UDI-I Group proposes the establishment of an ORDAM, a regional objective for health insurance expenditure, together with the decentralization of health competence to the regional level. Such a measure would ensure that health spending is managed as closely as possible to our citizens, would reduce the scope of the administrative task, particularly in our hospitals, and would ensure more efficient management of care. Following the consideration of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, said Bill 4D, in the Senate, what is the Government's view on the prospect of decentralization of health competence to the regions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u133	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u134	I am very opposed to the decentralization of risk management and health policies to local and regional authorities for a number of reasons. First, they do not ask, with very few exceptions. Second, they are not equipped to assume health competence. Thirdly, through the health crisis, I see that the most decentralized countries have been in great difficulty in making decisions. This was the case with Germany or Spain. So Chancellor Merkel had to meet the Presidents of the Länder each time to make the slightest decision on health management across the country. In Germany, some regions allow such a vaccine for children under 50, while others do not, which makes the situation disturbing even though the institutions of this country are designed to manage health problems at the regional level. On the other hand, I am very much in favour of entrusting more functions of public health, prevention, general organization of well-being to the communities, regardless of the level, the metropolis or the intercommunality being not a bad step for this, i.e. that there should be no local plan for intercommunal urban planning without a health component, for example on environmental health. Today, health is not decentralized but deconcentrated through RHAs. As I said earlier, there is a need to strengthen the territorial dominance at the departmental level, the links with communities, and that is what we have done with the Ségur de la santé with hospital investment. All investments of less than EUR 150 million are decided locally rather than nationally. We continue to deconcentrate by giving more envelopes to agencies to discuss with elected officials and see what can be funded in terms of health centres, health homes, territorial health professional communities (TCHCs), access to care services (ASS). That is the future. But I assure you that the experience of the crisis shows that no one today demands the decentralization of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u135	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u136	We can only be surprised at the share of administrative work and its cost in the total cost of operating the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u137	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u138	According to a study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 33.7% of all hospital staff are employed other than in medical or paramedical occupations. It's a record in Europe: it's more than in Germany and in Italy – 25% – it's more than in Spain – 24%. Such a cost of administrative tasks would be legitimate if it were to improve patient care. But it must be noted that this is not the case. In fact, Germany had five times as many resuscitation beds as we did before the crisis. The length of stay of patients in the hospital is shorter for us than for our German neighbours. Let us also point out that we spend less on equipment and that our wages are lower than in other countries. Our bureaucracy hinders our ability to improve patient care. There is no question for us of questioning the work of these men and women. The problem is the way we operate, the extent of the standards our system imposes on hospitals. So what is the Government's action to reduce the share of administrative tasks in the care of the patient?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u139	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u140	Here, I agree with you. Too many administrative tasks are assigned to people who have other skills and missions than those. However, in order to monitor and assess, in particular, the quality of care – which was referred to earlier as quality indicators – it is necessary to enter into computerised devices data that can change the quality of care. We must not throw everything away, but we must, of course, simplify it. Moreover, the simpler the funding arrangements – the much administrative complexity of the T2A – the more the administration's share will be reduced. You have voted, in the framework of the last Social Security Financing Bill, on measures that dealt with the billing arrangements that cost administrative jobs. I want fewer administrative jobs in hospitals and more nursing jobs. I would like to point out this fine example, in Nancy, where, I believe, 145 administrative positions have been abolished, while 130 or 140 nursing positions have been created. This shift is allowed precisely because we simplify things. I was even ready to get the hospitals out of the public procurement code to allow them to be even more autonomous and to go faster. But that is impossible, and European law is very clear on this point. With the Sécur de la santé, a part of the public health code is made non-appealable, particularly in the case of organizations. You can recreate services, you can vote for your head of department, you can organize the teams in one way or another. We are really moving towards the simplification and the Sanctuaryization of this administrative time. Digital helps us a lot in health, and we need it. However, the time spent by doctors or nurses in the hospital behind a screen is becoming more and more important, and it tends to lengthen working days rather than make them more effective. It's a reflection for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u141	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u142	The French are proud of their hospital and their health care system; They were already there before the crisis and the last few months have given them reason. Our hospital has held: it is the result of the unwavering commitment of the caregivers, the teams, the RHA officers we were talking about a few moments ago, the state services, the communities. Every evening, at 20 o'clock, the caregivers were applauded for months. Containment is behind us and applause has stopped, but pride and recognition are still there in our fellow citizens. They're still worried about it. Worried because they often feel that the public health service has been deteriorating for twenty years, and it is unfortunately fair to note that in France the first of the inequalities in access to care is that of the place of residence. We don't treat as well, we don't treat as quickly everywhere. I'm thinking about the suburbs. Île-de-France is France's first medical desert: 4.4 million Francilians find it difficult to consult a generalist and, in ten years, the region has seen 2000 general practitioners leave. It is therefore particularly important to reinvest in these territories, both in terms of quality of care, provision of care and access to care. In this capacity, I can only rejoice, after having had the opportunity to talk to you about it during the Ségur de la santé, that the plan to modernize the hospital of Argenteuil is finally coming into being with significant state support, as the Prime Minister recently announced. This work, which has been planned for a long time, has been delayed due in particular to the conditions for the training and authorization of major projects of this type. It is important to provide flexibility in the operation of the hospital, to improve its responsiveness: decisions must be made as close to the field as possible, because, in many cases, everything is complicated and too slow. I would therefore like to hear from you on the implementation of the commitments of the Ségur de la santé in order to accelerate the development of care in the territories and loosen the stranglehold in the hospital. I am thinking in particular of the replacement of the COPERMOs originally planned for the beginning of the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u143	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u144	Thank you for your question and for your commitment to the health facilities in your territory. I would like to remind you of the Prime Minister's announcements during his visit: modernisation of the entire care offering of the north-west territory Vexin-Val-d'Oise with the restructuring of the René-Dubos de Pontoise building within a project costing 350 million euros, subsequent commitment of the modernisation operations at the sites of Magny-en-Vexin, Aincourt and Beaumont-sur-Oise, completion of the restructuring of the Hospital of Argenteuil with funding corresponding to nearly a third of the cost of the project and debt relief of the new headquarters of Gonesse for at least 30 million euros. [[Ms. Fiona Lazaar applauds]] For the Hospital of Argenteuil, this is the completion of its renovation after a first tranche delivered in 2013. These include emergencies, level 3 maternity, paediatrics, hospitalization, imaging, and the consolidation of biology, pharmacy and logistics laboratories. So it's a very important slice. You know that the law on public finance programming requires an independent counter-expertise on investment projects. The Argenteuil project is about to be completed; it is likely to be favourable. Upon receipt of the Steering Committee's opinion, probably in July, we will be able to confirm the final green light for this project and its funding. This will be great news for this institution and its territory. This illustrates the new dynamic of Ségur: we go faster, further and stronger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u145	I shall give the floor successively to Mrs Martine Wonner and Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain, who will each ask two questions. I would like to thank you, minister: it was you who wanted these four questions to be put to you when the turn of our two colleagues had passed. You have the floor, Mrs. Wonner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u146	Thank you very much, Minister, for agreeing to change the order of intervention. We are here to talk about the future of the public hospital, but how can we talk about the future without looking at the present, without seeing the breach of the public hospital service, this hospital so dear to our country, so dear to the French, this hospital that has been brought to light and rightly acclaimed in the pivotal times of the crisis of the covid -19? The public hospital suffers, the public hospital is sick. Not only are you deaf and blind, but you keep shooting at the ambulance. The hospital suffers because since March 2020 it has not been able to accommodate all patients, especially the elderly, the most vulnerable, and as a result many could not be detected or even treated. I mention, of course, outside the covid, all progressive diseases of neoplastic, neurodegenerative or even psychiatric type. The hospital suffers from a lack of means, activity pricing is now inadequate for humanized, quality care, and the covid crisis has set all the limits of the coding of the information systems medicalization program (PMSI) with the unrelenting issue remaining unanswered of patients simply PCR positive coded covid. The hospital has an urgent need for a reform of its governance, which needs to be renovated, medicalized and benevolent: the "all-administrative", especially the RSAs – you answered my colleague earlier on this point – weighs on the organisation of services and medical choices. You are surely going, minister, using your usual rhetoric, to put forward the measures of Segur in a complacent manner. Let's take a step up and talk about the figures: EUR 9 billion in addition to the expenditure originally planned for 2021; EUR 38.7 billion of total social security deficit. How can you today justify your choices and, above all, pursue the same strategy: unnecessary salivary tests imposed on children, PCR test gabegie,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u147	And here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u148	... use of expensive and ineffective molecules and now immunisational forward leakage without the necessary regression to assess the relationship between benefits and risks; 450 million euros spent a day in support of the health crisis – almost enough to open a university hospital (CHU) every day – and your cure is to keep closing beds?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u149	You have to close, ma'am, I'm cutting off the microphone...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u150	I'm asking my question...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u151	You've already spoken for two thirty minutes, Mrs. Wonner. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u152	I thought, Madam Member, that you were going to ask me how we were going to amplify our vaccination campaign to protect more French people. I will therefore use my time to answer this question. We have already vaccinated more than 60 per cent of the adult population and vaccination is now open to adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age. As you know, we relaxed the time between the two injections, from four or three weeks to seven weeks during the summer. You are right, Member, we must increase the coverage rate to protect the French against the emergence of new variants and epidemic waves. We are doing the same thing as all of our European neighbours, like the United States, Canada, Israel, you have reminded us, as in reality all of the countries, which are vaccinating adults and now adolescents. This is an extraordinary step forward that science has allowed us, and I welcome your support for our vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u153	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to put a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u154	The minister does not seem to have understood the meaning of my question. Caregivers have been acclaimed or sacralized throughout this crisis, to the extent of their investment and the risks involved, they who have given everything, some at the cost of sequelae such as long covids or even burn-outs; Others have even left their lives there. Today some say stop: they no longer want the arrogance, the "sassurism" of the government. Caregivers no longer want sophisms, they just want to be respected. Caregivers turn to some of us to tell us that they refuse the vaccine pressure you are exerting. In fact, you are presenting vaccination to the French as absolutely necessary, whereas the vaccines in question are still in phase 3 of testing and only receive a conditional marketing authorisation (MA) and the benefit-risk ratio has not been fully assessed, including for healthcare providers. Caregivers do not want this type of response; They want very concrete answers and, above all, they want to do their work as qualitatively as possible. They want means. That's why they were on the street in recent weeks, be it the staff of the CHU of Bordeaux or Saint-Quentin. Even psychologists went down the street for the first time. So, please, Minister, make a definitive commitment to ensure access to care for all, the most vulnerable, to ensure the protection of the public hospital and, above all, of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u155	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u156	You are right, we must respect the caregivers, by avoiding, first of all, to accuse them of having committed crimes or even crimes against humanity, as you have done, I believe, which is worth many complaints to which I would very much have associated myself personally, at least before the Order of Physicians, if I had not been Minister of Solidarity and Health. I believe that the time is sufficiently serious and that the French have learned the lessons and made the difference between a speech that aims to protect them and a speech that has totally derived, the one that you are holding and that you are acting with a few others, Madam Member. You are beaten: 85% of liberal caregivers are already vaccinated; Hospital care providers are also many to be vaccinated; The rate of French participation in vaccination is more than 80%, and among those who hesitate, there are some who are still afraid but who do not agree with your conspiracy theories. Member of Parliament, change your fight: there is still time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u157	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u158	In 2018, when the plan My Health 2022 was being developed, a word guided the ambition of the President of the Republic, our ambition: the word of proximity, because the health system of tomorrow will be a network of proximity that will have to guarantee the entire population permanent access to both scheduled and emergency care. It is from this essential lever that much depends on the responses to the tensions we are experiencing at present. The response to the population's demand for care, the acceleration of the outpatient shift, the reduction of pressure on the hospital, the improvement of the working conditions of liberal health professionals: all this is based on a better structuring of community-based care. It is the whole meaning of the plan "my health 2022" which provides among other things for the labelling of 500 to 600 local hospitals, a label that must guarantee the population a first level of medical response, as close to its place of life: medical care, specialized consultations, access to technical trays of imaging and medical biology, even emergency, perinatality, orthogenia, follow-up and rehabilitation care, palliative care. This labelling must also prevent the closure of certain establishments currently at risk. I am thinking of the hospital in Longjumeau, the capital of my constituency, yet declared medical desert by the ARS. It was planned to close it for the benefit of a state-of-the-art facility that had to settle down much further on the Saclay plateau in 2024, thus depriving a whole living pool of a nearby hospital that was easily accessible. Excellence in clinical research, innovation, advanced technology training, if essential, cannot be achieved at the expense of community-based care, on the contrary: both are complementary, a principle that the health crisis has largely validated, if we want an effective health system. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the progress of this labelling process and indicate the conditions to be met by those concerned, such as the guarantees that will be given to the institutions in return?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u159	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u160	Thank you for your question, Member. In concrete terms, I have already submitted the ratification order to the Council of Ministers. The decree is currently before the Council of State; its publication is therefore imminent. The issue of community hospitals is indeed the structuring of community care, with hospitals obliged to carry out their activities in a very intrigued way with the actors of the territory, also obliged to offer a base of compulsory activities: medicine, offer of consultations, access to technical trays. On the other hand, they do not perform obstetrics or surgery. The activity of these institutions can be expanded as long as they meet local needs – I am thinking of follow-up and rehabilitation care, emergency medicine, perinatal centres and palliative care. The order issued on 12 May 2021 defines the framework for the labelling of community hospitals. This framework defines the labelling procedure which will be the responsibility of the Director General of the ARS: voluntary approach of the establishment, which undertakes to ensure the mission defined in close cooperation with the actors of the territory; establishment project in line with the missions of community hospitals; National application file provided by the voluntary institution and reviewed by the Agency. This document deals with the state of play, the territorial anchoring of the establishment and the plans to strengthen this territorial organisation, in conjunction with the actors of the territory. Thanks to this consensus text, resulting from a very broad consultation with trade unions, federations, colleges, liberal medicine, regional health agencies, we will finally succeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u161	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain again has the floor to put a final question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u162	The health crisis that has struck us for more than a year now will have ended with a breathless health system. Unfortunately, it will have taken the situation we know to accelerate the paradigm shift that we started with the My Health 2022 plan and with the first five-year social security funding laws. After the Segur of Health, you made a very clear observation, Minister: we need to change our logic on the capacitary issue, to emerge from dogmas and wars of position in a debate that brutally opposes the fervents of the systematic closure of beds to those who refuse any idea of territorial reorganization. This debate, I know him particularly well as he is agitating my constituency, concerned about the future of hospitals in Longjumeau, Orsay and Juvisy-sur-Orge, threatened with closure in favour of a new establishment to be created in Saclay. The inhabitants fear, rightly, the remoteness of their hospital to a site that is not accessible due to ill-conceived transport, but also the reduction of the capacity to take care of in a territory already declared medical desert and even as its population continues to increase. I share your conviction, minister, that a third course may be set, a path that would take into account the needs of the people but also their imperatives, a path that would not be surprised by future health crises, a path that would come out of the financial logic alone. In this spirit, what tangible guarantees can be given to the population in this regard? What about the opening of the 4000 beds "on demand", i.e. beds that institutions will normally be able to open according to needs, as announced in the conclusion of the Sécur de la santé?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u163	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u164	I will start with the second part of your question, Madam Member: in the winter period 2020-2021 alone, out of the 4000 "on demand" beds announced, 2853 have already been opened in 249 establishments: you see that we are going fast and will thus largely reach the target of 50 million euros which will be renewed each year. You are right: we leave the purely accounting and financial logic, but we must not leave the logic of evaluation and control. It is not a question of returning to the previous situation of the hospital, where the quality of care was not necessarily at the rendezvous: the development of the ambulance, for example, presented disadvantages for many patients. It is clear, however, that we must stop pressing the hospital because we had arrived at the bone: there was no more investment, no more innovation, no more modernisation. There was no possibility of saying yes; All we had to do was say no to the hospital. "Your project is great but we don't have the money; We'll see next year."Well, that's over. Similarly, as soon as a project cost a little bit of money – when, for example, a hospital needed a complete renovation because the consulting service was on the thirteenth floor and the elevator was broken every day, from which traffic jams, doctors were was wasting time, consultation times were increasing, etc. –, it was necessary to assemble a COPERMO, everyone would sit around the table for one, two years, all so that in the end you would be opposed to a refusal at national level. That's over, too. Today, a scientific committee meets at local level to accompany any project with a cost of less than 150 million euros, most of the projects decided locally, which really changes the situation in the hospital. We're transforming everything. The evolution of governance is, I repeat, a key point, and we are going to reap the benefits in the coming years: those who succeed me will be able to see year after year that the situation has changed. Thank you for your questions and I thank the national representative for this morning's exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-18-O1312.u165	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Debate on employment policy and unemployment insurance reform; Discussion of a motion for a resolution to encrypt, evaluate and regulate the use of outsourcing of public services. The meeting is adjourned.
