ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft budget regulation and approval of the accounts for the year 2020 (No. 4407, 4414).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u2	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u3	Before I get into the heart of the matter, I'll have a word of friendship for those, including personal ones, who have spent a long, complicated night. I hope – without too much illusions, however – that you are not too exhausted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u4	We were motivated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u5	That, I never doubted...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u6	This is the case with Mr. Lecoq, in particular!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u7	Thank you for your presence, in any case, whatever benches you sit on. Following the Senate's re-reading of the bill, you have to make a final decision on the Budget and Account Approval Bill for 2020. You are well aware of the contributions of this text, because you have had the opportunity to discuss it on various occasions, in particular with my colleague Olivier Dussopt, who asked me to replace it – because he is on the move – and greets you. First of all, I would like to point out that the budgetary execution of 2020 is exceptional, as it reflects the massive and rapid response of the State to the crisis, which is allowed by the arrangements that we have adopted together. These were necessary to limit the impact of the crisis and to protect all French people, including employees. The crisis was an unprecedented shock to our economy, which led to a 7.9 per cent decline in GDP in 2020. From the first confinement, we gave economic actors the means to hold on. With your help, we created three support mechanisms during the first amending finance bill – PLFR – for 2020, which are now known to all. Through numerous regulatory texts and the feedback of all stakeholders, we have adapted them over time to best respond to the specificities of each sector. Firstly, we have proposed to Parliament a very generous form of partial activity, at a total cost of about EUR 35 billion since the beginning of the crisis, of which EUR 26.3 billion in 2020. Some 17.8 billion have been disbursed since the State budget. At the height of the crisis, in April 2020, it was 1 million companies that used this scheme to support more than 8 million employees. On the other hand, since the creation of the Solidarity Fund, more than EUR 31 billion has been paid in response to more than 9.6 million requests. Finally, government-guaranteed loans – PGE – have been successful: more than half of the companies in the most affected sectors have used them. One third of the companies contracted an EMP for a total of EUR 140.6 billion, according to the data available at the end of June 2021. Many other forms of state support have complemented the aid portfolio, such as tax and social carry-overs, exemptions from social contributions and payment aid, and the exceptional strengthening of the State's financial participation. In view of the extreme uncertainty in which the crisis has plunged us, we have proposed that you should allocate sufficient funds to deal with possible tightening of the health situation. Unfortunately, the uncertain evolution of the epidemic has given us reason. Parliament and the Court of Auditors raised questions about the level of appropriations carried forward from 2020 to 2021. That is why the text was rejected by senators. Our objective was to ensure the financing of the emergency while informing Parliament with sincerity. Beyond the question of financing, the result confirms that the State has made the right choices. The schemes helped to preserve the purchasing power of the French, which, overall, increased by 0.4% in 2020, despite the sharp decline in activity. In addition, state aid has helped to preserve businesses, especially SMEs – very small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises – whose number of bankruptcies has been limited to a historically low level. Finally, the funding capacity of local communities has been preserved. In spite of the disparities, communities tended to have good financial health by the end of 2020. The fact that budget implementation helped to support the economy in 2020, despite the circumstances, is because we have re-established fiscal room for manoeuvre since 2017. The 2019 government deficit was the lowest since 2001, at 2.2% of GDP. It should also be noted that the public debt ratio declined in 2018 for the first time since 2007. Finally, remember that the Government has fulfilled its commitments by reducing taxes: the rate of compulsory levies has actually dropped by 1.3 percentage points between 2017 and 2019. The financing of the necessary arrangements is now facing a major challenge. The state budget in 2020, which the Government proposes to approve, has a budget deficit of 178.2 billion euros, almost twice as much as was originally planned. Beyond the state budget alone, our public finances must return to the sustainability we had held before the crisis imposed its agenda. To this end, the Government will build on four pillars: growth, which we are already maximizing through the recovery plan; the gradual exit of emergency devices – if the health situation permits, of course; serious management of regular expenses; Modernising the governance framework for public finances – the work of the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, Laurent Saint-Martin, the chairman of this committee, Éric Woerth, and of the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, Thomas Mesnier, on which you discussed at the beginning of the week contribute very widely. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The financial year 2020 is closed. We can be satisfied, despite the terrible situation, with all the measures taken since the beginning of the crisis in March 2020. More than a year later, we must work together to meet the great challenges ahead in a spirit of shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u8	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, including what you said at the beginning of your speech. Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u9	The day before yesterday, the Senate again rejected, on re-reading, the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020. That is true, this choice is consistent with the first rejection of the text by the Senate on July 15, at first reading. It is also in line with the failure of the Joint Joint Committee – CMP. As I have already said, I regret that the spirit of compromise that guided us, both members of Parliament and senators, in the four amending finance bills for 2020 did not allow us to agree on this bill. This is all the more regrettable because it is only the final translation of all the provisions adopted together during the successive fiscal collectives of 2020, in a context which everyone will remember for a long time, that of the necessary implementation of the policy of "whatever it costs", of the emergency measures and of the start of the recovery plan. My counterpart in the Senate, Jean-François Husson, insists that only 80% of the economic shock suffered by companies has been absorbed by public administrations. On the contrary, I think it is necessary to measure how exceptional public mobilization was in 2020. Here I thank the officers of the Regional Directorates for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment – DIRECCTE – in the territories, and those of the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – who have been mobilising all the emergency tools for more than 17 months. Of course, we have designed a very broad support package, adapted to the realities of companies and sectors, and we have, over the course of the texts, filled what we have often called the "holes in the snowshoe" during 2020. I am thinking of the evolution of the solidarity fund or of the local public services operated under management, for which we have provided a specific aid scheme in the first PLFR for 2021. Some blame us for overdoing it. The year 2020 would mark the beginning of an easy trend towards public spending in all areas. I recalled at first reading: the evolution of personnel expenditure, in particular, was lower than the forecast of the initial finance law for 2020. The introduction of massive aid, which is unprecedented in terms of budgetary memory, has therefore taken place on almost constant human resources. We have even, for the first time since 2015, reduced the number of jobs consumed. It is important to highlight the extra work that this has done for the teams of the different administrations I mentioned earlier. All relevant international organizations welcomed our policy of supporting employment, households, businesses and communities. That is what I think is important, and it is this policy, of which this bill is photography, that is to act. In fact, we have co-built this policy. My Senate counterpart also criticized the massive carry-overs of credits between 2020 and 2021, following the fourth PLFR for 2020. It is true that these postponements raise the question of respect for the principle of budgetary annuality, of which I am the first to recall the importance, in the name of budgetary sincerity and respect for Parliament, which authorises appropriations. But finally, it was the same Parliament that authorised these postponements, and one cannot give its consent in CMP on possible postponements in the initial finance bill (PLF) and successive PLFRs, before denouncing them six months later! It is an incoherence of our honourable senators, which I think is quite baroque. I also recall the words of our former colleague André Philip: "Civil year can be an administrative reality; It is not an economic reality. We measure the whole truth of this maxim, seventeen months after the outbreak of the pandemic. With the parliamentary moment that we had until very early this morning, at the end of the special session, everyone will understand that the exceptional carry-overs of appropriations from 2020 to 2021 have managed the crisis as the pandemic evolves, hence the economic and social crisis. Unfortunately, this will still be the case for the next few weeks and the next few months. In any event, we can be pleased to have an organic and constitutional framework that is flexible enough to support businesses, households and communities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I therefore propose to you once again to adopt broadly the text before us, the text we adopted at first reading, so that we can finally turn the budget page for a year 2020, which unfortunately has been a record year in terms of deficit and debt, but also in terms of working time and in terms of the number of texts and amendments discussed here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u10	Mrs Cendra Motin, Deputy Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u11	Although I am not a fan of superlatives, I am obliged to note that the implementation of the 2020 budget has been extraordinary. The crisis that hit us in 2020, which has paralyzed the whole world for several weeks and is still going on, has upset everything. In the initial budget for 2020, which reflected the economic vitality and dynamism of our country and gave us some room for fiscal manoeuvre, four amending finance laws were succeeded, the first ever pre-executive decree of the legislature, and the creation of two exceptional missions of urgency and revival. From the budgetary implementation that we are called upon to adopt this afternoon, I shall retain the very great responsibility that all the parliamentary groups have shown to deal with the unprecedented situation in which we have found ourselves. Together, we have allowed our country to cross the year 2020 – the year of the "no matter what" – and imagined useful and operational mechanisms to help our economy not only to keep up, thanks to the mission Emergency plan to deal with the health crisis, 41 of which of the almost 70 billion euros were spent, but also to bounce back, thanks to the mission Recovery Plan, with 10 billion euros, of which 9 billion could be consumed in 2020. I will also note the immense resilience of our country, our economy, our administrations and our infrastructure, which has helped to thwart the most pessimistic forecasts and to limit the fall in annual GDP growth to 7.9 per cent, while in June 2020 the Government estimated it to be 11 per cent. Of course, all this has a cost, and the public deficit for 2020 is at a level that it had never experienced in peacetime: 9.2% of GDP. But nobody here knows that without the decisions we have taken, the picture would be much darker. While the drop in tax revenues of EUR 37 billion, due to the decline in activity and consumption, is significant, the economic rebound and the impressive rebound in consumption have already shown that our strategy to protect jobs, businesses and people is the right one for our country. From the 2020 execution, I will finally remember what is not seen, so much the covid crushes everything: emergency and revival aside, the execution of the finance law has, as in the last four years, been sincere, and the financial commitments entered into in the original finance law kept. While the last law of the legislature comes out of the ordinary to more than one figure, it nevertheless endorses fundamental principles that we have been able to preserve throughout our work: sincerity, respect for commitments, adaptation, all at the service of strong convictions, such as the necessary efficiency and greater readability of public expenditure and the operationality of the measures financed to give our fellow citizens real rights. Moreover, it was these principles and the serious budgetary situation that over the last three years enabled us to obtain the immediate support of our European partners when we presented them with the recovery plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] From 2020, we all have difficult moments, moments of discouragement and loneliness. But let us not forget that it was also the year of resistance, resilience and solidarity for our country. The settlement law gives us the opportunity to realize what we've been through, how we've been through it – as well as possible, I think: in any case, be sure that we've done our best – and, most importantly, how, together, we ended up doing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u12	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u13	In the general debate, Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u14	The final reading of this bill will obviously be less scrutinized than the review of the bill on the management of the health crisis. However, the text we are debating here is not without challenges. Everything has been said about this year 2020 completely crazy, but it is not pointless to scrutinize the past to draw some useful lessons from it to better face the future. So, what lessons can be learned from the 2020 accounts? The first lesson, of course, is the total gap between the initial finance law that we adopted in December 2019 and the reality of the accounts that we are closing today: such an abyssal gap is never seen before! This is, of course, due to the violence of the covid crisis, which has completely disrupted the already fragile balance of our public accounts. Unfortunately, the spiral is relentless: a violent recession, a decline in government revenues, a surge in our spending, and thus an explosion in our deficits and debt. But the crisis does not justify everything, so much so. Indeed, if we share the imperative of "whatever it costs" in times of crisis, we regret that the distribution of funds between emergency, recovery and regular budget is elusive: emergency and recovery expenditure is perfectly justified, but certainly not the EUR 7 billion increase in expenditure without any connection to the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u15	It's justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u16	The other lesson from the 2020 accounts is the extent of unconsumed credits, so the massive carry-overs from 2020 to 2021 that result: we are talking about 36 billion euros, which can only question us about the sincerity – I insist on this – of your budget. That is what has explained the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, and we broadly share the concerns and criticisms expressed by our colleagues in the Senate right. Another great lesson of 2020: our relative fragility when facing the crisis, due to record spending, an uncontrolled deficit and a slippage of our debt long before the emergence of the covid – I repeat: long before the emergence of the covid. However, it was not for lack of warning that the majority had come to power since it came to power in 2017: our parliamentary group, remember, had insisted at length on this point. As in 2019, twenty-three of the twenty-eight countries in the European Union were declining, France was one of the five countries where debt continued to rise all the time. Today we pay the price of your renunciations to any effort in times of favourable economic conditions: even your already modest goal of reducing the state's wage bill had been abandoned long before the crisis of 2020. The last lesson concerns the future, and it is particularly alarming: nothing is planned by your Government to reduce our spending, neither today, nor tomorrow, nor the day after. Brave reforms, especially those of pensions, have been buried – recent gesticulations will not make us believe the opposite – and difficult decisions are being pushed back to the Greek calends. Worse: Your Government finally decided to let public spending go more than expected next year. While 2022 could have been the year of the upsurge for future generations, it will ultimately be nothing. Madam Secretary of State, on behalf of our group, I would like to warn you once again: if we do not reduce the level of our debt, France may be downgraded to its European neighbours. In the meantime, the account is not there: as you will understand, the Republicans will not approve the accounts. We regret it, but you will easily understand the reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u17	Not quite...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u18	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u19	As we said on Tuesday, we could – and should – have avoided considering this text in final reading today, after a long night of debate on the bill on the management of the health crisis, and we regret once again the surprising attitude of our fellow senators, who, although having passed the four amending finance bills, decided, against all logic, to reject the bill. Is your experience in the local community in such a way that, ladies and gentlemen, it would be in your mind to reject your commune's administrative account? So we're going to have a strange exercise: to deliberate again on a text that we examined no later than Tuesday afternoon. However, I will try to bring some new elements. Despite current concerns, which sometimes give us the impression of reliving last year, the year 2020 is indeed over, and we can only see the damage suffered and the efforts made for the whole nation – a united, united and committed nation. It is on purpose that I will only say a few words about the remarkable action of the State throughout the crisis. While trying to preserve the health of our fellow citizens as much as possible against a virus that we didn't know about when we adopted the initial finance law for 2020, the state has been able to mitigate the shock for our businesses and, therefore, our jobs. I am convinced – and I am not the only one here – that it is this action that allows a rapid recovery today, giving us hope for the recovery of the growth gap from the beginning of 2022. The crisis will leave very strong stigmatizations on our public finances, especially on the government deficit, which stands at 9.2 points of GDP. Since debt is only the sum of past deficits, sovereign debt has mechanically increased sharply. The debt linked to the covid must not be the only one to worry: we are sitting on a mountain of debt! And if I know that some of them here are diligently mountaineering, I cannot imagine that only one of them is happy with the high levels we are reaching in terms of public debt. France stands out for a very high tax burden. Thus, paying off debt by significantly increasing compulsory levies would be counterproductive, as this would hinder growth. On the contrary, the experience of the period 2010-2014 has shown us that an effective policy of control of public finances is a policy that acts on expenditure, not on revenue. Here I would like to welcome the Government's willingness to make all sectors of the administration contribute to the control of the pace of progress in public expenditure: I can assure you, Madam Secretary of State, of the demanding support of the Dem Group in this matter. It is now a matter of learning from the difficult exit from the crisis that we experienced between 2010 and 2014, both at national and European level. At European level, I think I can say that, thanks to the action of the President of the Republic, we are well engaged. Unlike 2009 and the decisions taken then with the disastrous consequences that we now know, Europeans have this time decided to respond together to the crisis and to accompany, in common, those of them who have to suffer the hardest of its consequences. The health crisis and its economic differences between the North and the South of Economic and Monetary Union had to be prevented from succeeding a new crisis – that of "sovereign debts", which was misqualified. It seems to me that the €750 billion announced, coupled with completely revolutionary methods of intervention – first and foremost a common debt – will suffice. This common debt facility requires two observations on my part. First of all, it obliges us to continue to reflect on the search for new own resources for the European Union. Recent advances in the international corporate tax framework give us hope for, and we will pay attention to, progress in this area at European level. In addition, the recovery plan, with EUR 100 billion in France, including EUR 40 billion in Europe, is a key tool. Almost equally divided into three "c" – competitiveness, cohesion and climate – the recovery plan is a means of continuing to transform France, by promoting a recovery that we hope will be sustainable, sustainable and inclusive. Much remains to be done, particularly with regard to inequalities from the outset, the effectiveness of public policies and the competitiveness of the French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u20	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u21	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These issues will occupy our next few months. We're ready for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u22	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u23	Like this parliamentary session that is coming to an end, this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020 finally comes back to us for final reading. Almost everything has been said about this text. However, the exercise remains relevant as it provides us with a forum to express our views on the measures that have been voted and implemented, on what has been good, but also on what has been less good. I shall begin by reiterating my opposition, as well as that of my group, to the line taken by the majority. We have already spoken out against the finance bill at the time, as well as amending finance bills in 2020, and it is no surprise that we will oppose this bill. As we have been able to point out on several occasions, considering a budget which was voted before the crisis of the covid-19 and which required consideration of four PLFRs may seem lunar. The examination of such a project seems as disconnected from reality as the stakes of the original finance bill, which was not up to what the French demanded. With regard to the implementation of appropriations, we have been able to recall that almost 31.6 billion euros – 36 billion, Patrick Hetzel said – have not been spent. We were also able to recall that the conditions for the review of the last PLFR in 2020 had been limited and that the massive carry-overs of appropriations raised questions as to the methods and place of parliamentarians in this decision-making. It is good to open valves and finance large-scale aids, but these credits must be spent with reason and fairness. We have been able to make proposals over the years, and we did not miss the call at the end of 2019, during the discussions on the finance bill for 2020 and on the various PLFRs. When you were talking to us about helping companies in difficulty, we were perfectly in touch with you. We then wanted to address the issue of the packaging of aid, and here our differences were heard. French companies lost 55% of their net profit. As a result of your policy, they still paid their shareholders €51 billion in dividends. You have therefore deceived the French and, in addition, lacked courage and firmness. If we had conditioned the aid, we would not have reached that point. Having said that, we are not surprised. Since the beginning of your term of office, you have always been at the bedside of the most fortunate. Moreover, their fortunes increased in an unprecedented way in 2020, where the majority of French people were suffering a violent decline in living standards. The rich take an ever larger part of the cake and do not leave one crumb to others...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u25	... who are engulfing themselves in increasing insecurity. Our students, our elders, our dependent people, the most precarious: all lived a more difficult year and suffered. You're not going back in front of anything. For example, I would like to point out that your refusal to deconjugate the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH), a measure that would have cost you little and would have restored some dignity and hope in times of health and social crisis. But even on such a consensual measure, which united us on all the benches of this assembly, you have reduced solidarity. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to get out of this crisis together, we must do it from the top. Do not forget your fellow citizens, do not forget small and medium-sized enterprises and do not abruptly cut off the various aids and benefits granted on an exceptional basis. Choose ambitious social, solidarity and environmental measures. We are demanding more and more efforts from our fellow citizens, while refusing to involve the wealthy, the insurance and the banks. You have to change software, it's not too late to make this social turn, but we doubt you're capable of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u26	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u27	Let us be brief, let us be fair, to tell the story of the past fiscal year – which is not just any one, because it was struck by an unprecedented health crisis. I regret that no compromise could be reached with our honourable senators. This lack of compromise is regrettable in view of the incredible times we live and face. While the situation calls for union and concord, some prefer cross-roads, using random compasses. The confidence given to the Government by the "Acting Together" group does not exclude control – according to the consecrated formula that some attribute to Lenin, which does not appear in my reference pantheon! I will develop three points that I think are salient. First of all, I would like to say once again that this bill reflects the violence of the crisis on the economy and the massive response of the state, which has weighed heavily on public finances. The "whatever it costs", necessary, life-saving, has been well implemented, and we can be proud of it; Because behind the numbers we look at through these financial bills, there are lives that can shift, hopes that can be reborn. I believe that our support was really at the level of needs during the crisis, even if of course, here and there, dramatic individual situations remind us that our commitment so that everyone can live with dignity must never cease. It is the honour of this country to put solidarity between citizens at the heart of its social model. At such a particular time, we must always bear in mind that we have been bequeathed a treasure that we must preserve and continue to maintain. However, this does not mean that we must remain immobilised, because reforms are needed to improve and adapt this model to the challenges of our time. Secondly, you have been a few, ladies and gentlemen, moved by the massive carry-over of appropriations between 2020 and 2021. Of course, we share your call for vigilance, because a carry-over of more than EUR 30 billion in appropriations is never seen before. But humility and honesty lead us to concede that uncertainty about the health and economic situation required more than less. This also applies to the health management aspect of the crisis. We need to be humble because we have learned a lot about the virus and its evolution for a year and a half, and we still have a lot to learn. The decisions to be taken by the Government are complicated decisions, with important implications and unknowns. And the shock of the pandemic has in no way undermined the sincerity of this 2020 budget. Finally, and I will conclude on this point in order to keep my promise of brevity, we must already think about the future. We must face the challenge of reconciling growth creation with the restoration of public finances. To do so, we will have to encourage future spending and modernize the functioning of our State. I was already telling you on Tuesday when this bill was being re-readed: our country is full of talents that are ready to build, together, France today and tomorrow. So let us free up the positive energies, encourage commitment and fraternity. For it is together, and only together, that we will succeed in bequeathing to the new generations a prosperous future. Many are to be rethought, to be rebuilt, if we really want to honor the hope of the world after. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You will find us at your side, Madam Secretary of State, to meet these challenges and, in the immediate future, to vote in favour of this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u28	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u29	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u30	I make myself the voice of my comrade Eric Coquerel, whom the incessant upheaval of the agenda prevents being present. But it turns out we're doing the same analysis. The settlement law that we are considering in final reading confirms the disruption of the French state. As usual, the Government is pleased with what it has done. He said that he had committed "an unprecedented mobilization, in response to the health, economic and social emergency".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u31	Yes, perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u32	Yes, you have heard, Mr. Macron is pursuing an "unprecedented" policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u33	Yes, perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u34	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Coquerel is afraid of being a little bit simple, as he notes in the budget documents that the additional expenditure incurred to deal with the crisis amounts to only 46 billion, i.e. 1.7 points of GDP. What an effort! You may not have seen, dazzled by the light of your president, that, in the meantime, the United States – a well-known paradise of revolutionary socialism and public spending – committed 15% of its GDP in 2020 to support households and businesses – or €3100 billion. In the same year, France spent EUR 200 billion to deal with the crisis, i.e. 7.5 points of GDP. Finally, at the beginning of 2021, the Biden administration made an additional effort of $190 billion, or 9% of US GDP. [[Ms. Michèle Peyron protested]] This is not an abstract finding; The ridiculous expenses you've incurred have consequences for people's lives. In the United States, the poverty rate will fall from 14 per cent to 8 per cent; The Tax Policy Center estimates that the income of the poorest 20% will grow by 20% in 2021, while the richest 1% will earn nothing. In France, the opposite is true: the poorest can brush themselves before you reach out to them. In Macronie there is a fundamental trend: we simply announce, then we do nothing more. It is the presidency of marketing: a beautiful formula to describe your entire policy. Another unprecedented phenomenon occurred also in 2020: more than EUR 30 billion have not been spent, while over the last ten years, budgetary under-implementation – i.e. committed but unspent – averages 1.4 billion each year. You didn't spend the money you announced. Too bad for young people: with this money, we could have financed ten times the extension of the RSA to the under 25s, or so many other things! On the other hand, on the powerful side, everything is going on: the tax niches, with the transformation of the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – at the head of the car, in decline of contributions, cost the state €110 billion in 2020. No offense to His Magnificence Mr. Macron &am p; Cie, I recall that this public money is carefully collected by many large groups that relocate, put French people out of work and betray the homeland. All these social plans are obviously carried out with the utmost impunity; The Government is now too busy controlling French health passes in cafes and cinema. No matter how you follow up on these tax expenditures, so opaque that the Court of Auditors writes: "The steering strategy is weak and suffers from a lack of appropriation [...] few tax expenditures are assessed and the measurement and monitoring tools deployed to monitor their efficiency are failing. The administration has no estimate of the number of beneficiaries for 222 of them; 67 of the 475 tax expenditures are not even quantified. I conclude that in order to lay off in this country while making profits, we don't even need a QR code anymore. I dare report to our illustrious President &am p; Cie that, while it controls the sanitary passages to the health facilities of the theatres, the earth burns around the globe and tax niches still finance very polluting activities. The report on the environmental impact of the State budget thus estimates the amount of tax expenditure on energy products and fuels at 5.1 billion. Ecology under Macron had begun with the slogan presented as a modernist "Make our planet green again"; It is now far away, in a Macronie where the state has become stunted and deficient, so small, more concerned about the control of citizens than about their future. That is why we will not vote on this budget bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u35	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u36	The 2020 fiscal year will remain extraordinary for the economy and public finances – as you said, Mrs Motin. We note that 2021 will not be the year of the return to ordinary, no more, most likely, than 2022. In 2020, four amending finance laws were needed to implement massive state interventions throughout the year, in order to address the impact of the covid crisis. In this unprecedented context, the Libertés et Territoires Group has repeatedly welcomed these measures to support economic actors, even if they have been at the cost of major imbalances. In execution, the government deficit increased sharply, up by $85 billion compared to 2019; He's coming dangerously close to 180 billion. This figure is mainly due to measures in the emergency plan – more than 40 billion; This cost, though high, is justified. Emergency and recovery measures have limited the irreversible effects of the crisis on the economic fabric. Of course, our group fully shares the will of the executive to help the businesses, companies and employees affected by the pandemic. Nevertheless, there were some shortcomings in the management of public finances during the crisis. My first point concerns the carry-overs of appropriations. For the general state budget, they exceed 30 billion. While underexpenditures are one thing and can be explained, carry-overs appear to be unjustifiable, especially in such proportions. I would point out that our colleague Charles de Courson had defended an amendment to better regulate these carryovers of appropriations, in the context of the consideration of the proposal for an organic law amending the LOLF, the Organic Law on Finance Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u38	This would have been a democratic step forward, indisputably. Our group therefore hopes that the Government will not repeat this massive postponement until the end of fiscal year 2021. Another challenge is the fragility of public finances before the crisis. The necessary structural reforms were undertaken only in a limited way at the beginning of the quinquennium. In addition, while aid deployed in 2020 had a high cost, its effectiveness has not always been met. This is due in particular to their too much uniformity in view of the diversity of the territorial economic fabric. From the outset, our group has called for greater consideration of territorial characteristics in the deployment of aid. We also regret the weak mobilisation of the recovery plan at the end of 2020. Only 4.3 billion were disbursed between September and December, i.e. less than 5% of the total; It was far too little. I am therefore pleased to see that this plan has returned to a more steady pace. The priority given to ecology seems crucial to me. The exit from the crisis can only be successful if we move towards a green recovery. In this sense, I would like to pay particular tribute to the ecological aspect of France's revival. By the way, I hope that the sums earmarked for Upper Corsica will actually be allocated. We need it to finance essential natural heritage upgrading and energy renovation projects. We need it as much as other territories, of course. However, while spending on the environment is increasing sharply, in excess of $40 billion, the green budget remains burdened by the presence of environmentally harmful spending. They prevent the full deployment of the necessary funds to achieve the 2030 targets. In any event, our group hopes that the next PLF will speed up these changes. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The net position of the State is negative; the total liabilities now exceed EUR 2500 billion and the rate of increase of the State's liabilities is much higher than that of the assets. This is the main problem: how can we not worry, especially since this situation should not improve in 2022? The separate shot we received last week – very early in the morning – mentioning an additional 10.8 billion for pilotable expenditure confirms this direction. While it is certain that these increases are in the right direction, the question remains: how to finance all these measures? I repeat, I hope that the growth expectations underlying future budgets will come true, that interest rates will remain stable and that the external trade deficit will not grow further. These will be the conditions for controlling the trajectory of public finances, which is clearly indispensable and which we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u39	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u40	We meet to review, almost three months after it was tabled, the bill to settle the accounts for the year 2020. This year you tabled this text one month in advance; I want to say hello to him. However, the exercise remains irritating because, since the settlement law is a snapshot of last year's finances, our possibilities for this text are very limited: ask for some explanations; to the limit, contest the observation that is made with our weak means of parliamentarians, to propose an alternative evaluation; then adopt the text or reject it. Then, from one general discussion to another, we only have to recall our past disagreements. On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I would like to recall, for example, the differences between the recovery plan that we proposed and yours, which came later, which we see as a poorly targeted plan, since it will not allow the country to re-industrialise, nor will it permit a rapid rebound in consumption, and hence in economic activity. You may have just revised the growth forecast for 2021 from 5% to 6%, but let us remember that it is only a catch-up, which will only be complete in 2022. At the same time, the United States, Germany or Canada will have completed it by 2021, thanks to lower growth falls in 2020 – by minus 3.5%, minus 5.1% and minus 5.4% respectively, compared with less 8.2% for France – and higher increases in 2021 – by 7%, 3.3% and 6.1% respectively, compared with 5.8% for France – according to OECD sources, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. I would also like to recall our disapproval of your management of the crisis, not only with regard to the timing of health decisions, but also with regard to public finances, with the timetable of the PLFR 4. The Court of Auditors itself found it unnecessary, as it resulted in considerable carry-overs of appropriations – more than EUR 28 billion on a single mission and more than EUR 43 billion in total – instead of cancelling them and reopening new ones, as does any government that cares about the readability of its budgetary action to enable effective parliamentary control. In addition, I would like to recall the lack of focused efforts in the long term, on environmental protection, research and, in particular, vaccine production; This is equivalent to 2.25% of GDP, compared to 3% for Germany. Our President Valérie Rabault recalled on Tuesday, when addressing the Prime Minister during questions to the Government, the small amounts we invested in the vaccine race – I will not repeat them. We are paying very much today for this insufficiency: I refer you to the recurring question of the number of doses available in view of the promises you make, and the restrictions on freedom that you place on those who cannot be vaccinated on time. Finally, I would like to recall a few inconsequences of your inaction: when you refuse the deconjugalisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities; when you have left our youth hungry for too long, despite our constant warnings and proposals to open up emergency incomes, and despite the heartache of student images in front of their empty fridge or queued with food banks to get some resources. To add to the affront, one of your Government colleagues went to give them a medal and a cheque of 500 euros. Some of your candidates in the regional elections even took up some of our proposals, even though they had refused them in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u41	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u42	Do you feel targeted, Mr. Rapporteur-General?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u43	Yes, because that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u44	Well, you'll explain that to us. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Above all, after all this and after all our alerts, it is regrettable to see you punctuating the last few months with announcements of premiums, aid and new budgetary measures, and to note that none of them were included in the PLFR for 2021; you prefer to wait, delay, perhaps prepare the upcoming campaigns. This is unfortunate, it is terrible for the most precarious, for the young, for the businesses and the industries; This is especially harmful to social cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u45	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u46	Over the course of our readings, we have kept repeating this: because of the health crisis, the implementation of the 2020 budget is unprecedented, as evidenced in particular by the four amending financial laws that we have discussed and adopted. I regret that the Joint Joint Committee has not reached an agreement, but it allows us to find ourselves and to recall the fact that I have just made. The Government and Parliament have shown a great deal of responsiveness and agility in proposing emergency measures that respond to the reality of the field, while adapting them to the changing situation of the crisis and new situations, which require rapid and effective solutions. In this regard, I welcome the valuable work that has been done by all Members of the European Parliament. It has made it possible to adapt the measures and to follow as closely as possible to the territories the needs of the French most vulnerable by the crisis, as well as the challenges that companies and local and regional authorities encounter. The State has mobilized considerable resources and France can be proud of the answers given in order to protect the French and to limit the consequences of the crisis. In line with the announcements of the President of the Republic, the Government has made a very clear choice since the beginning of the health crisis: to support the French, their jobs, their businesses, "whatever it costs". Indeed, the government's budgetary balance has been severely affected. It stands at less than EUR 178 billion, which means that the deficit has almost doubled. This result is of course due to a loss of tax revenue of EUR 37 billion and to additional expenditure, of which almost 42 billion for the mission's only emergency plan in the face of the health crisis. Two measures in particular have enabled the French to retain their jobs, households to retain their purchasing power and businesses to go through the crisis: the financing of partial activity, amounting to EUR 22.6 billion, and the solidarity fund for companies, amounting to EUR 18.9 billion. I am also thinking of the EMP, of fiscal and social measures, such as the postponement of certain compulsory levies for a total of 66 billion and of massive appropriations – up to 79 billion – to support households, local authorities and businesses. All the measures have saved our economy, whose resilience and ability to bounce quickly must be recognized. We observe it in the territories: traders, artisans, businesses, the French in general, do not come out in many respects obviously not free from the crisis, but the state has held, the hospital has held, the economy has held, thanks to the public action and its local declines. They will still stand if, of adventure, the situation deteriorates – which we do not hope for. France, in general, has held, thanks to the unconditional commitment of its caregivers, its law enforcement agencies, its administration and all its citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u47	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u48	While growth and deficit are historically low, they are less degraded than expected. We can congratulate ourselves on that, as they bear witness to the strength and resilience of our country. The implementation of the 2020 budget also takes into account the first commitments of the recovery plan, with €10 billion in commitment authorisations and €9 billion in payment appropriations. I would point out that, for the same area, the implementation of appropriations in 2020, apart from the effects of the health crisis, is broadly in line with the level set in the original finance law. In conclusion, while 2020 was marked by a sharp decline in global activity, we were able to make the necessary choices to protect our fellow citizens from the effects of the crisis. We will continue to do so, but we hope that, in the coming weeks, emergency management will leave full room for recovery. As a result, the La République group will vote on this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u49	That's surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Happy holidays, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u51	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u52	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u53	I put the bill as a whole to the vote as a result of the National Assembly's re-reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u54	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u55	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u56	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic (No. 4401).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u57	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u58	While the state has fought effectively against violent radicalization and terrorism, the challenge of this bill is to respond to the risk of community retreat, Islamism and all separatism. In our neighbourhoods, in our schools, in our public services, in our associative fabric, in certain places of worship, there are indeed demands from minority groups who, pretending to free themselves from the laws and values of the Republic, weaken the Republican pact and sometimes threaten public order. In order for the Republic to be able to defend itself and to fulfil its promises of freedom, equality and fraternity for all, there was a need for strong provisions, a "republican revival", as the Head of State called him of his vows in his speech of the Walls. It is the ambition of the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, which reminds us that "the Republic is a will never completed, always to be reconquered", according to the words that the President pronounced to celebrate the 150 years of the proclamation of the Republic, on 4 September 2020. Yes, the Republic is a will; It consists of the acts carried out for the cohesion of the nation. From the beginning, the bill you are considering is balanced, deeply republican. It is a necessary text, of great evidentity and at the same time of an unprecedented ambition. It is an obvious part of this, because it better guides and accompanies the community world, when it prohibits public funding of structures or bodies that reject our values, and when it gives the State, under the close control of the judge, more effective means to put an end to associative activities that seriously threaten public peace. Yes, it acts concretely for human dignity when it bans practices that should not even be necessary to exclude, as they come at what constitutes our common vision of the human person. Yes, it strengthens our legislative arsenal to fight relentlessly against hate speech and acts, especially on social networks. Yes, it gives a right to look at the structures and personnel that teach our children, so that education never serves as a Trojan horse to a separatist project, of any obedience whatsoever. Yes, it is a useful reminder of the so essential nature of freedom of worship, which must always be exercised with respect for republican legality and be part of a framework in which guarantees and benefits are harmoniously balanced. Finally, it affirms without hesitation that public service delegates are subject to the principles of neutrality and secularism. It is an unprecedented ambition because we demand the financial transparency of associations, even as we collectively spend on them every year on tax expenditures that are legitimate and very important. Yes, we strongly affirm that it is not possible to threaten public servants so that the public service complies with community requirements. And we also strongly reaffirm the scope of the principles of neutrality and secularism, including in local communities, with the new secularist reference. Yes, we better protect people from faceless hatred that can be found on the Internet. For no one, I say no one, had so clearly reaffirmed the need for all to respect the rules of the Republic. Finally, no text had dared to change the 1905 law while remaining as faithful to the spirit and will of its editors. No text had succeeded in maintaining the unique character of worship and adapting it to the reality of 21st century society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u59	I hope you don't believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u60	This bill has been the subject of consultation with the community, religious representatives, health professionals, the press, representatives of sports movements, representatives of local elected representatives and all major political families. It has been ripened for almost two years of work, in order to achieve a balance that unites, as I said, the obvious and the ambition. This text has been discussed at length in Parliament. The debates, sometimes lively, have made it possible to enrich it significantly, so that it strengthens the principles of the Republic for a long time. I would like to express the gratitude of the Government, in particular that of the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, that of the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, Jean-Michel Blanquer, that of the Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice, Éric Dupond-Moretti, and that of the Associate Minister for Citizenship, Marlène Schiappa, who had the honour of presenting this bill to the representatives of the nation you are. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on some benches of the Dem group]] As you will have understood, the bill in which you are about to vote is a structural element of the government's strategy to combat Islamism and separatism, which the President of the Republic set out in his speech of the Walls on 2 October 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u61	Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u62	After seven months of examination, we reach the conclusion of the debate on the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, a text the framework of which was proposed by the President of the Republic on the occasion of his speech delivered on 2 October 2020 at the Walls. I welcome the work carried out by the Chairman of the Special Committee, by all the thematic rapporteurs and by the administrators: without the assistance of each of them, we would probably not have obtained such a high quality text – and I will return to the substantial and profound improvements that have been made to it. The bill, which seeks to meet a wide range of challenges, will provide additional means of action for the public authorities to provide concrete responses to separatist drifts, wherever they may emerge and undermine the foundation of a free and emancipated society, in public services, in the community, in schools or on the Internet. The future law will allow the principles of secularism and neutrality to be extended to all employees of public and private law participating in a public service mission, to create a procedure of republican deficiency allowing the State to suspend the acts of the communities which would ignore the neutrality of the public service. It will also create an offence to obstruct the teaching function, as well as a new criminal offence to punish threats and acts of intimidation against persons involved in the execution of a public service mission: we owe them State protection, as much as we must protect the spirit and the rules of operation of the public service. The future law will establish a contract – and it will not simply be moral – whereby associative structures that receive public subsidies will commit themselves to full respect for the principles of the Republic. Similarly, controls vis-à-vis sports federations will be strengthened, in so far as they carry out, directly or indirectly, public service tasks. The rule of law will have additional weapons to ensure that the perpetrators of hate speech on the Internet do not go unpunished, since the spread of online hatred is a huge challenge for our society. Family education (FEI) will be reformed by means of an a priori control system: removing a child from school is never an annoyance, and this makes the State legitimate to exercise its vigilance. The financial transparency of cults will be strengthened by the reform of the obligations arising from the laws of 1905 and 1907, with the aim of separating cultural activities from cultural activities. Indeed, the theological-political syntheses, which we are fighting against, are causing confusion that fuel their counter-project of society. Moreover, it is in order to combat ideological enterrism that the capacity to close places of worship will be strengthened, when they experience unacceptable drifts, and that the control of foreign financing will be deepened, while deploying TRACFIN's ability to oppose occult financing. "Respect for the principles of the Republic" is a title that has generated much debate on its own. For some of our contradictors, it would reveal an antiphrase, both guilty and cut off from reality. We have in turn rejected – and assured him with a calm firmness – attempts to target, in the title and in the letter of the law, a belief, a religion in particular with its fundamentalist meanderings, even though the fight against political Islamism fully mobilizes the public power. Why the choice? Because the law must always apply to generality. That's what makes it so strong. Was the law of 15 March 2004 aimed at a particular religion? The answer is no. According to its title, it aimed to "frame, in application of the principle of secularism, the wearing of signs or outfits showing religious affiliation in public schools, colleges and high schools". Did the care, methodical, given in this capacity reveal a weakness, an angelism? I don't believe it: on the contrary, it testifies to the difference between a law of circumstance and a deeply republican law. It is indeed this conception of republican universalism – cold universalism by nature – that led us to reject the temptations – numerous and sometimes repetitive – consisting in aiming in particular at a garment of a religious character, including in public space, and thus to twist the French conception of secularism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on some benches of the Dem group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the general meaning of the future law which is being examined this afternoon in July. It is a text of freedoms, in the plural because it aims to protect public freedoms from separatist drifts: it aims to preserve these democratic treasures, namely freedom of conscience and freedom of worship, and to strengthen the only community that is worth it, the community of citizens, that is, the republican community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u63	Mr François de Rugy, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u64	It is time to take stock of our legislative work on this bill. Contrary to what some opposition parliamentarians claimed at the beginning of its consideration, Parliament had ample time to work as the National Assembly began its work seven months ago. This work began with numerous hearings – many colleagues were surprised by their numbers – which we were right to conduct because they have shed much light on our debates. The resulting text, which will be adopted definitively in a few minutes, answers many of the questions from the people we heard at the end of December and the beginning of January. I also welcome the title chosen for this text by the Government and the majority of our Assembly: it reflects, wisely, a substantive choice. In fact, the text does not deal only with relations with religions, let alone with one,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u65	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u66	Not at all, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u67	... in this case Islam, as some have been trying to make it seem: we were right to refuse to change the title of it, as some parliamentarians asked, in the Assembly and in the Senate, where the right-wing majority had argued in this direction. As its title indicates, this bill is therefore intended to reinforce the principles of the Republic; and this title is welcome, Madam Secretary of State, because it is often regrettable that legislation contains ridiculous acronyms – and this under different legislatures. The Republic must live: it is the deep conviction of this majority, and it can, I believe, be shared beyond its ranks. The Republic does not live on its own: it is the citizens and politicians who are responsible for it. The chance of the legislative calendar led us to look at this text again in the aftermath of the second round of regional and departmental elections, which saw a record rate of abstention. I am one of those who think it is problematic for the Republic that universal suffrage has become in some way virtual. To make the Republic live is also the business of all citizens; and to make it live, it requires rights and duties, things that are found in the text in many respects. The Republic and its values are under attack, due to fundamentalist religious drifts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u68	Name, name!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u69	In 1905, moreover, the question asked was not that of fundamentalist drifts, but rather that of clericalism, with a Catholic clergy pretending to influence or even dictate political life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u70	Oh! It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u71	In 2021, we face attacks that come from certain forms of Islam. They can be communityists and translate a desire to live separately, or consist of proselytism that would like to impose itself on the whole society by making religious dogma the common rule. We therefore have a duty to combat these phenomena and to give ourselves the means to do so. We wanted a text that concerns all religions, broad in scope, a text that goes beyond the relationship between the State or public authorities and religions. In this regard, I welcome the joint contribution of the Government and the parliamentary majority on the issue of combating online hatred, which is, more than ever, a matter of concern for the Republic, which must guarantee the most basic rights of citizens on the Internet – news has given, on espionage systems, a recent example, even if there are many other abuses, even though the Internet tool is obviously of great interest to citizens. The legislative work we have conducted is balanced and measured, and this balance we demand as we demand firmness with regard to fundamentalist drifts. We have also taken care to respect the freedoms of individual belief and collective worship, regardless of whether one is Catholic or Protestant, Jewish or Muslim, Orthodox or Buddhist, or if one has other beliefs that will not fail to emerge, the State has no need to judge whether one believes or does not believe, or, of course, to promote any religion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on some benches of the Dem group]] Undoubtedly this position, and especially the pregnancy of the crisis of the covid, helped to overshadow this little-publicized text. It's a shame, because the stakes it poses deserved the company to take over. What matters, however, is that we have accomplished a lasting work: I am convinced, from this point of view, that the measures we are about to adopt will remain in our law, in the service of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u72	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u73	Until the end of these seven months, the insoumis will have marked – and they will mark as long as necessary – their absolute opposition to this law, whose anti-Muslim vocation is clear,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u74	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u75	... since it was again highly hypocritically recalled to this rostrum. After ten centuries of persecution against the Jews, whom the old regime expelled eleven times from the national territory, after three centuries of persecution against the Protestants, the powerful, the important full of morgue, draped in a secularism that is only a disguise, turn against the Muslims. As if Islam was not the second religion in this country, as if it were not the religion of so many millions of our compatriots! This bill invented a concept, separatism, a hollow and fuzzy concept meaningless. Not a single second it has not been envisaged to touch the true separatism of the existence of different laws for certain territories: I am thinking of the concordat in Alsace-Moselle or the order of Charles X for Guyana: to this, you have strictly not changed anything! The Government even gave the most violent version, pointing out the mayor of Strasbourg, who rightly claimed to extend the privileges enjoyed by other religions to Muslim worship. We condemn all privileges; But you showed there that it was the Islam you were aiming for. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] This fadise of concordat that some are trying to confuse with the social status of Alsace-Moselle – which we do not do, because for the billionth time, I repeat to you that we wish to extend this social status of Alsace-Moselle to the entire national territory – costs us all, French, 60 million euros, whether we agree or not to subsidise religions. Anti-Republican law, and above all hypocritical law: even though the practice of the Muslim religion has been denounced here so many times and so vulgarly, we will have seen the President of the Republic, who has not even challenged the status of canon of Lateran, that is, the parish priest of honour of the pope's parish...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u76	It's a tradition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u77	... go to Lourdes and usurp in a way that insupposes Catholics themselves the rites and beliefs of the Catholic faith. I can tell you that if he believed that he was going to recover anything from it, he was wrong – or rather, he would have recovered nothing but contempt, because none of the Catholics I know, regardless of their political opinions, liked this recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u78	Do you know a lot of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u79	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, I know a lot, and don't sneeze, because I have Catholics in my family: a little respect, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u80	I'm just like you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u81	Keep your persiflage for you, Mr. Rapporteur-General!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u82	Let us listen to President Mélenchon, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u83	Then you have just complained about the abstention, rightly; But you did not find a word when, before the first round of the regional elections, the Israeli Consistory of France, the Council representative of the Jewish institutions of France (CRIF) and the Unified Jewish Social Fund (FSJU) asked that we not vote for the insoumis: this is the first time, since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, that one sees a religion mingle to say for which party one has the right to vote! So far, religions have expressed, as is their right, moral preferences or condemnations of a particular practice or idea, but they have never pointed to a political party, especially from such smoking assertions. You didn't say anything, you're complicit! And the truth is, anti-Muslim acts have increased by half in 2020! This statistic is established by the Ministry of the Interior, not by community organizations. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would remind you that the insoumis will never take part in a religious celebration, and the insoumis will never disarm in the sacred defense of the right of Muslims to live in peace in this country and to be respected! That is why I want to salute the cold blood of Muslim cultural and cultural organizations, which, despite all these provocations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u84	There's no provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u85	Indeed, no provocation in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u86	...have behaved with absolute dignity while here they were charged with a polygamy already prohibited by the penal code, which was discussed the prohibition of virginity certificates that are already condemned, which were instigated a grotesque republican commitment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u87	Ah, that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u88	... which is of no use, since in any case article 89 of the Constitution prohibits the violation of the republican form of government and state. [[Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general, appointed the benches of the Republican Group. – Ms Anne-Laure Blin protested]] We will have heard for hours the ban on sailing for school leavers, when the rules are already perfectly clear, or the ban on burkini. In the midst of a pandemic, we will have discussed the prohibition of foreign flags in marriages and even of young people. I insist, however, that youyous continue, who are a sign of joy! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Alain David also applauds]] Thank you to the Muslims for resisting the temptation of the reply. Put your law down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u89	A great mix...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u90	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u91	This bill was necessary, awaited, because we all meet, every day, regardless of our political colour, French people who, whatever their confession, their origins, their belongings, want to become a body within the Republic, on equal terms with other citizens, and enjoy the freedom of conscience and the freedom of expression of this conscience. It would not have been reasonable for the Government, the Parliament and the majority to fail to grasp the concerns that are troubling our society. There is a desire for civil harmony. The work of both the National Assembly and the Senate has, in my view, a real added value. Of course, we would have liked some words not to be spoken, some attitudes, even some postures, not to have been imposed. But we have kept our course, and we have been able to uphold republican principles. Every republican must bring his stone to the construction of this regime which comes to us from yesterday and which allows us to strive towards a better or more radiant future for all French and French people – no matter what, I repeat, their confession, because no confession is particularly targeted by this text. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will not vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u92	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u93	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I will speak at length on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group in the general discussion. But, because we do not think this bill will be of much use, we do not hesitate to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u94	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u95	We do not understand this rejection motion at all. The Republic is calling us! It constantly calls on us, today, tomorrow, to act. Our work has been rich. Of course, we may be shocked by some of the comments that have been made, but all Members have the right to express themselves freely in this House, as we have the right to contradict them and to amend proposals: this is called democracy. The Republic calls for union and harmony, not division. I am afraid, moreover, that this motion for a preliminary rejection is an expression of a desire to divide our country, as we see in the case of the management of the health crisis, of a desire to break the republican union around a text which is intended only to strengthen respect for the republican principles to which we all adhere, and to fight against what can separate us. The social body does not need separation but unity and cohesion. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Group of the European People's Party will naturally vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u96	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u97	How reliable you are! You always find time for repression, even in the midst of a social and health crisis. At the beginning of March 2020, when the covid-19 began to nest in France, you turned away an exceptional Council of Ministers dedicated to the epidemic to activate Article 49, paragraph 3, on pensions. In the midst of a health crisis, you thought it was good to have us examine the law on global security, which of course was going to be a great help in dealing with the virus. In the midst of a health crisis, this is the definitive reading of a law supposed to be devoted to republican principles, which is a blow to the associative freedoms in particular, by asking associations to sign a pseudo-Republican contract, but republican as in Macronia, where people are sorted on the basis of their religion. In fact, here's another text, which you claim is intended to combat terrorism, but in reality it violates public freedoms. Meanwhile, at the end of April, the delta variant arrived quietly in our territory; At the time, you told us that the situation was under control. You always find time for repression, for anti-social reforms such as the pension law or the unemployment insurance decree, but you are not planning anything on health, so we find ourselves each time having to examine, at the last minute, the President's sauginous ideas until five and thirty in the morning. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ironically, you are going to vote for a text that claims to fight separatism a few hours after having voted, at dawn, a text that creates two categories of French on our territory, on the basis of health data. The sanitary pass, colleagues, that's the name of separatism in action! With you, the health, the authority, even the fight: one authoritarian text hides another. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There is no secret: if you were to deploy the same energy to organize the fight against the epidemic as to suppress the French, we would not be there. Vote in favour of this motion to reject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u98	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u99	The GDR Group will vote on this motion of rejection. If one is interested in the flaws of our Republic, the urgency is to find colossal means for the school of the Republic, for the education of our children and young people, to bring back every citizen to his or her role as actor of the Republic; the urgency is not to divide, not to stigmatize. However, this bill does not provide for any new investment. It has become difficult for elected officials of the Republic to discuss their mandate in the schools of the Republic, in our secular schools. It is not good to talk about politics in educational spaces, we are told. But what is this aberration? Of course it is necessary to speak politically, to talk about the functioning of the Republic, to explain that there are differences and to make an opinion on some aspect of the life of society. But you have done everything for decades to stop talking about it, to abandon our historical references, to forget the workers' history of our world and of France. And then, as the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the committee did, we are surprised at the rise in abstention! And we complain that citizens are turning away from public life! [[Applause on several SOC and FI benches]] Do not be surprised, act: put means for the school of the Republic, for all educational spaces, means to train the animators of the leisure centres. Do that, and you will see that your law was useless: it was only necessary for the Republic to be present and to play its role.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u100	Exactly! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u101	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u102	It is in order to combat separatism, in addition to other measures already taken, that the Group of the Republic on the move wishes this bill to be adopted. Today, some people move away every day from the values that make Republic, that is to say, from those values that allow them to live together and the freedom of all people on a daily basis. This text is not an idea thrown out of sight on paper: it is a concrete response to evils that threaten our common future. It responds, for example, to attempts at intimidation, violence and threats to public officials. It strengthens associations and their role as a bulwark against radicalisation. It protects women from practices that violate their dignity. He fights hate speech that abounds on social networks. It strongly reaffirms the indispensability of the school of the Republic. It reforms the organization of religious associations while preserving freedom of worship. That is why, in conscience, by being responsible, we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u103	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u104	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 12 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u105	In the general debate, Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u106	If we stop by his title or his objectives, this bill could be a source of enthusiasm. However, our role as legislator requires us to always question the adequacy of the means mobilised and the objectives pursued. In this regard, we can only regret that your text is not up to the stakes. Our Republic needs to be strengthened – there is no doubt about that. Our society needs more freedom, more equality, more fraternity. For this, it is our public services that should be strengthened, for equal access, throughout the territory, to health, education, safety, but also to culture. Thus this text appears to be a missed appointment with the Republic, and this is essentially for a reason: you have given in to the temptation of the Republic of distrust towards associations, placed in the rank of suspects. While they are leading actors in the service of social cohesion, they deserve better than the suspicion that this bill places on them. Suspected of being the instruments of separatism, they will be obliged to declare their allegiance to the principles of the Republic and threatened to lose the public subsidies they receive. Freedom of association must be strengthened and not jeopardized. The legal risks are considerable and this law undermines the protective regime of one of the most essential freedoms of our democracy. This is even the first freedom granted by the Constitutional Council, which, by its decision of 16 July 1971, established it as a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic. The creation of the Republican contract of engagement could weaken associations by placing them at the mercy of arbitrary interpretations of the values set out therein. Indeed, the reference to principles as general as the dignity of the human person places associations in a position of vulnerability vis-à-vis public authorities in order to obtain or maintain subsidies that are sometimes vital to them. It is their very independence that is at risk here, since they may be suspended from the will of national or local authorities, according to the latter's interpretation of the notion of the dignity of the human person or that of respect for public order. In this regard, the reference to the latter concept is particularly worrying, since it is alien to the community. What interpretation could we give him? The reference to the symbols of the Republic, which should also be respected by associations, raises serious questions. In the Republic, don't associations have the right to irreverence? How should they be affected, from near or far, by the Marseillaise or the tricolor flag? Again, such a provision provides the authorities with a margin of interpretation that allows everything and anything. When we legislate, we must bear in mind that the context of the application of the texts may be different – very different – from that of their preparation. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our Republic needs more freedom, more equality, more fraternity. With this text, we will not have finally won anything, but the Republic will have lost its freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u107	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u108	I'll be very brief. After its second examination in the Senate, we find the text as we voted on it again in the National Assembly, so I will simply recall some elements that we believe are essential. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is pleased to have been heard on a number of important issues which had not been dealt with initially, or which had been dealt with insufficiently. I am thinking of the creation of the offence of separatism, a key measure of this text allowed by the work carried out by Laurence Vichnievsky, rapporteur for Chapter 1 of Title I. At first and then again, thanks to the proposals of my colleagues Géraldine Bannier and Frédéric Petit, we also helped to find a balance with regard to family education, by restoring the original text. It was essential for us to maintain the possibility of educating our children at home: we thank the Minister of National Education for having heard us on this point. Others of our proposals, notably from François Pupponi, on possible foreign interference in the financing and construction of places of worship have also been integrated. Finally, and this was an important part for our group, the text was enriched with provisions strengthening republican cohesion, all the more important since we felt it was essential to accompany the various actors who are committed to promoting republican principles. We will therefore be careful to submit the report requested by our colleague, Philippe Vigier, on the republican promise in the contract of engagement. This report will make it possible to make better use of the actions of associations and communities in favour of republican cohesion. However, this positive assessment must not forget the few shortcomings of the text. There is no question of going back in more detail on the debate we have already had, but we deeply regret the lack of measures to ensure full neutrality in polling stations, as well as in universities and non-mixed meetings that can be held there. I regret that we are not looking more closely at what is happening within the universities and are not explaining why we are not dealing with this now well-known problem, and for which we were asking, at the very least, for a report to be submitted. These few flats are not anodized and bear witness to a certain lack of anticipation. This will probably lead us to come back to these issues in the future, which we regret. Nevertheless, the text responds to a great urgency and addresses the delicate subject of separatism with pragmatism and balance. That is why the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u109	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u110	While your diet continues to break France, to divide the French, you pretend to fight separatism. Even better, you claim to reinforce the principles of the Republic, when it is already a question of knowing them and above all of applying them! It is, to say the least, cunning to examine a text that never ceases to invoke secularism when, on July 16, Emmanuel I carried out a pious pilgrimage to Lourdes – a first for a head of state since 1941 and the Vichy regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u112	[[Mrs. Caroline Fiat applauds. – Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon exclaimed]] Of course, to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens, it is a miracle that you would need, but I doubt that Bernadette Soubirous is enough help for you. Last June, did our pilgrim not decide to increase the tax deductions for gifts to cults, which is still a very curious way to strengthen secularism in our country? Truce of joke, this poorly crafted text, little inspired – that is the case to say – is fully in line with your strategy of permanent division of the French: division between the active and retired with the breakdown of pensions; division between employees and the unemployed with that of unemployment insurance; division between Islamo-leftists and true Republicans when it comes to throwing reproach on your opponents; and now that the sanitary pass is a certificate of civics, division between vaccinated and unvaccinated. However, it is a separatism that has pudically been eluded during these seven months of debate: the revolt of the elites; This separatism of the richest, which gnaws our country, undermines our economy and breaks our society. Nothing is being done to address this problem, to fill this gap – what do I say, this growing gap. Nothing is done to restore the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – or to create an exceptional tax on dividends, as we propose in the name of republican equality. Nothing is being done to strengthen our public services, yet at the heart of our social pact. Nothing is being done to strengthen the public school, which is the foundation of our Republic, to fight against school deserts, to stop heavily subsidising private education, to monitor schools out of contract. Nothing is done to ensure territorial equality, which is a major challenge in the fight against social anomy and the sense of abandonment of working-class neighbourhoods. You are doing nothing, not even abrogating the agreement of Alsace-Moselle, which costs 65 million euros while more than 50% of the people concerned do not even want it. But when it comes to returning to family education without questioning its increase, when it comes to derogating from our fundamental freedoms, then there, that of agitation! And when it is necessary to restrict our associative freedoms, roar on this great law of 1901 in the name of a vague contract of republican engagement, that of haste! In truth, your text only feeds the worst reactionary auctions, from the presence of foreign flags during private weddings to the absurd controversy over veiled school attendants, among other clothing targeted. As for the original purpose of the bill, the fight against terrorism, your bill is a clear failure. Asked about the effectiveness of the provisions of the text, if they had been in force, in preventing the latest terrorist attacks in France, the Prime Minister himself replied that it was "very difficult to respond positively to this question". By demeaning secularism by inconsequentiality and cynicism, you do not fail to fuel this wave of reactionaryness which, throughout Europe, poisons public debate. In doing so, you help to stir up resentment and resentment towards our compatriots of Muslim faith, who are so unjustly victims of widespread suspicion. To combat separatism is to create the social, political and economic conditions of the union of the French people, not to stir up barren political polemics. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In essence, with this bill, it is the very idea of the Republic that is permanently damaged. It is our principles of freedom, equality and fraternity that are once again trampled on. For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this text and we will even appeal this evening to the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u113	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u114	In 2021, being attached to the Republic and its values requires ardent struggle against all forms of fundamentalism. In the face of these deadly beliefs, secularism is a bulwark, a protection that allows us to live in peace and respect for everyone. It is, I am convinced, the solution to the Community's drifts, to intolerance. And since it protects us, we too must protect it. Secularism has been attacked so many times in recent years...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] ...and I want to have a thought, at this moment, for Samuel Paty, who paid with his life for his attachment to our republican values and secularism, who so eagerly wanted to pass on to the younger generations. I also want to point out the cowardice of a large number, illustrated by the doctrine of "no waves", which has long reigned and which, unfortunately, still remains within national education. In the face of these renunciations and the rise of communalism, our response must be to reaffirm with pride but firmness our commitment to the principle of secularism and to place it at the heart of our republican project. [[Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon exclaimed]] The law of separation of churches and the state, dear to my political family, remains, more than 115 years after its adoption, a fundamental law, the keystone of our institutions. The text tries to provide answers at a time when republican principles are too often misunderstood and challenged on the ground. We have had discussions in our group. Some of my colleagues believe that the tools introduced by this bill are not the right ones, and that the legislation imposes significant restrictions on freedom, which will affect society as a whole and not just the fundamentalists. We do, however, agree on other arrangements. I am thinking in particular of measures relating to public services. The inclusion in the law of the principle of neutrality of private bodies responsible for the execution of a public service is a significant step forward. The extension of the referral by the prefect of actions by communities that would contravene the principle of neutrality will allow for a better and faster response to serious violations of secularism. The creation of a criminal offence of threats, violence or intimidation against a person involved in the performance of a public service mission and the introduction of an offence of obstructing the performance of the teaching function are other positive measures. The extension of the grounds for the administrative dissolution of associations, in the case of serious infringements of public order or fundamental rights and freedoms, appears necessary. As far as the fight against online hatred is concerned, the famous article 18, which creates an offence of endangering the lives of others by disseminating information, tackles a real subject but poses difficulties, particularly constitutional ones, as several members of our Freedom and Territory Group have rightly pointed out. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to say a word about family education. We know that this is a sensitive subject for families in this field, and there are widely differing views on this issue within our group. For my part, I believe that the role of schools in the socialization of children is paramount, and I therefore fully agree with the desire to supervise the EFI. Therefore, it seems to me anomalous that the licensing regime applies to family education but does not extend to non-contracted private institutions, in which the risks of community proselytism are high, as evidenced by a number of recent cases. With regard to the practice of worship, the law strengthens the controls and rules applicable to religious associations, in particular to restrict foreign financing. Having said that, I must make a major criticism of this text, that of the lack of educational and positive measures. Unfortunately, the principle of secularism is not sufficiently taught or understood, especially among young people. We would have waited, in accordance with the speech of the President of the Republic, for measures to promote education in secularism, integration or social mix in housing. However, this educational and social aspect was crucial to balance the text. We must fight in France for equal opportunities and against social and territorial segregation. There can be no strong secular Republic without a just and effective social Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In view of the shortcomings, but also some progress, I shall abstain from this text. For the reasons I have set out, the members of the Freedom and Territory Group will determine themselves according to their conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u117	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u118	For too many years, secularism has been instrumentalized for political purposes by majorities anxious to ensure their re-election. Fortunately, opinion polls confirm that the French and French are not fooled by these low manoeuvres and refuse to allow themselves to be poisoned by the venom of division. They have demonstrated this once again, by remaining stoic in the discussions surrounding a bill of which it is little to say that it is falsely against our political history. Indeed, with this text, the Government and the majority are devoking a founding principle of our Social Republic and turning their backs on the spirit that guided the legislator in 1905. I would like to recall here that the secularity desired by Aristide Briand and Jean Jaurès is in no way a negation of religion, but an element of concord indispensable to national cohesion. It is based on freedom of conscience and freedom of worship, on the separation of churches and the state...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u120	... and on the equality of all before the law, regardless of the beliefs and beliefs of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u121	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u122	These were the considerations that animated our august predecessors during the ten months of parliamentary discussions that took place in 1905. But none of this example has been found in our debates. We were, for our part, captivated from the identitarian obsessions of some, some even arrogating the right to decree which dances were suitable during a marriage or how mothers accompanying school outings should be clothed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u123	Long live neutrality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u124	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u125	We have witnessed, in the same way, the transcription by the presidential majority of the desiderata of the National Rally, especially when it comes to whether a polling station assessor had the right to wear a sign of religious affiliation. It took a little while for you to fall permanently into the abyss, and we had to fight to bring you back to reason, reminding you that secularism imposes religious neutrality on the State and the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u126	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u127	...but not to society and the individuals who make it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u128	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u129	Unfortunately, we have not been heard about the terrible obstacles that this bill places on associative freedom, as if the thousands of associations that promote social cohesion in our country were responsible in any way for the evil behaviour of a minority. The string is a little big! It allows you to divert the eyes of our fellow citizens from the neoliberal policies that you apply without shame and that feed everywhere the greatest misfortune of the time: social separatism. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, where are the measures to combat school inequalities, when a significant proportion of our best students find themselves at an early age in a school and social environment that reduces equality of opportunity to a minimum? Where are the measures to repair the social elevator at a time when the children of workers have all the troubles of the world to pursue higher education? Where are the measures to combat territorial inequalities – this must talk to you, Madam Secretary of State! –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u130	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u131	... who condemn many French and French people, in urban areas as well as in rural areas, to live without public services or resources necessary for their emancipation? Where are the measures to combat discrimination against millions of citizens on the basis of their family name, face or social origin? Nowhere! This absence is indicative of what deeply distinguishes our political plans. Where you use secularism as an ally of circumstance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u132	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u133	...we believe that it is a powerful engine of our social Republic. I say well social, because, as Jean Jaurès said: "The Republic must be secular and social but will remain secular because it will have been social. In other words, if secularism guarantees freedom of conscience and equality in law, it cannot be a vector of emancipation if it is not accompanied by social policies capable of breaking the chains of determinism. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This is the philosophy that Communist Members of Parliament will never cease to defend. So you will understand that we will vote against a text, which is basically nothing but a chimera in the service of candidate Macron's electoral agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u134	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u135	This text, which aims to strengthen the principles of the Republic and to combat separatism, has occupied us since last October. Today we are carrying out its final reading, in the version adopted by the National Assembly. In his speech by the Walls, the President of the Republic made clear the aim of this necessary struggle against the ideology of groups carrying out a political-religious project aimed at establishing a counter-society within the Republic itself. Yes, in our Republic there are territories in which the erasure of public action...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u136	Ah, it's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u137	...is manifest for far too long, territories in which our republican values have receded,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u138	So, what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u139	... by leaving room for community and separatist drifts that sometimes flourish within the associative, sporting, cultural or cultural sectors. Where the previous governments show blindness,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u140	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u141	...we have been acting since 2017. The exercise of religion, as you know, is a fundamental right, but when it becomes a pretext for radicality and is instrumentalized by extremist religious entrepreneurs, it no longer represents freedom but a danger. The bill places respect for secularism at the centre of action against community enterrism. Our work has been long and rich. I welcome the last reading of this text, which has restored the balance that has been removed by the Senate. Yes, it is a balanced text, which responds in practice to the problems and aims precisely at the root of terrorism. I am pleased that the National Assembly did not fall into the trap of stigmatizing our fellow Muslim citizens and removed some Senate additions that were contrary to our values. With this text, we recall the main principles of the 1905 law while adapting them to the realities of 2021. We can be proud, particularly proud of its article 1, which aims to apply the principle of neutrality to public service delegates, proud of articles 7 and 8, which enshrine the Republican contract of engagement and which give more opportunities to dissolve associations which would depart too much from the values of the Republic. Yes, we will strengthen some of the administrative and financial obligations of associations: these new provisions may appear to be irritating to some, but equality before the law obliges us all to accept certain constraints in order to protect ourselves collectively. However, I would like to remind you once again that the vast majority of associations carry out exceptional work on the ground and constitute a real bulwark against radicalisation through their projects and actions with our fellow citizens, especially the younger ones. Other provisions are aimed at those who take refuge behind other laws to depart from our principles of inheritance and human dignity, as illustrated by the examples of polygamy and the issuance of virginity certificates. To be in France, to live in France, to make a company in France, we must be irreproachable on our common values:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u142	It's already in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u143	...freedom, equality, fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u144	It's self-satisfaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u145	We are also proud of article 18, an article in the fight against online hatred and propaganda of extremists who distill their venom through social networks. It was necessary to legislate because these behaviors lead to tragedies like that of the barbaric execution of a man, Samuel Paty! And then there is article 21, which strengthens the control of family education. I have said this many times during the examination of the text and I repeat it again today: no, we do not remove family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u146	Hey, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u147	We hope that it will remain possible when it is carried out in the best interests of the child and only for that purpose. This article is the image of this text, it is balanced. It is the result of an end to the work of balancing freedom of education with the protection of children, which has been our compass since the beginning of work on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u148	Not on all the texts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u149	I would like to thank all Members for their contributions, which have made it possible to enrich this text, in particular all members of the Special Committee, its chairman, the general rapporteur and the thematic rapporteurs for the quality of their work and the fact that they have heard the requests of Members from all sides. Of course, I also thank the members of the Government. It is difficult to synthesize a text so provided, but I am convinced that this law will protect us all, allowing everyone to freely exercise their faith in a more protective framework. I promise him the same future as the law of 1905...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u150	Well, say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u151	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ... and even the 2004 one. Both aroused passions, but ultimately they created a form of obviousness. They have proved that believers, in their diversity, atheists and agnostics can live in this harmony which must be the reality of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u153	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u154	In 2002, Jacques Chirac said: "Our house burns and we look elsewhere."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u155	Yeah, it was about the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u156	At the end of the discussion of the draft law on the promotion of respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism, a similar feeling emerged. France, for decades, has been living under the threat of Islamist terrorism; In the western sphere, our country is one of the most threatened. From now on, the attack is no longer only exogenous, but also, for a large part, endogenous, because Islamist terrorists are born, growing, living and hitting on our territory. It is against these two threats that we must fight. As evidence, a very recent note from the Ministry of the Interior, revealed today even by the media, alerts once again on the risk of terrorist attacks, particularly endogenous ones. Unfortunately, the bill intended by the President of the Republic, which strongly denounced separatism in his speech of the Walls, is very weak. We can only note that the Government and the majority have simply named the problems without any response. Madam Secretary of State, the Government to which you belong claims to fight against Islamism, but you have accepted burkini in bathing places, community lists in elections or electoral propaganda with religious signs; You intend to fight separatism, but you accept meetings forbidden to the whites. Yes, you have removed the possibility introduced by the Senate to dissolve an association that organizes non-mixed meetings – and you know that they exist. You display a variable geometry struggle against religious proselytism by not speaking of the veil, the hijab, which is nevertheless increasingly present in public space. Finally, how can we present a text on religious separatism and the fight against radicalization that completely avoids the question of prisons, of which it is known that they are one of the first places of radicalization? The text misses the essentials. This is in fact an addition of measures that are not in common with the situation in our country: 57 per cent of young Muslims aged 15-24 consider sharia to be more important than the laws of the Republic; This is a ten-point increase compared to 2016. [[Mr. Mansour Kamardine applauds]] Far from reasserting our fundamental freedoms, including education, the Government is challenging them, sacrificing family education. This is not the least of the paradoxes, in a bill whose title proclaims "respect for the principles of the Republic"! As a result, the Republican Group, supported by many members of the UDI-I and Liberties and Territories groups, will refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. The bill prefers to limit its spectrum to an area of education that only affects 60000 families in France, on which there has been no precise study – or, a fortiori, encrypted – and above all, from which no Islamist terrorist came. In addition, no measures are mentioned in the rest of the field of education. The text sacrifices our fundamental freedoms: freedom of investigation, but also freedom of association, with the contract of association which we have discussed at length. It also imposes new obligations on religions, which, however, do not pose any problems in our country. All major religions opposed the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u157	This is not true: the religious authorities have expressed reservations on certain points but have not opposed the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u158	Worse than that, tomorrow they will face additional difficulties. But what about the extremists? They won't be worried. The bill clearly does not meet the objective set; proof of this is that the Minister of the Interior did not need this text to take action against two controversial imams. The stakes were to lay dykes, guards, to eliminate a threat that slowly but surely gangrene our society. We had a duty to push back the Islamists who want to weaken our republican model and trample on our fundamental values. Yet you did not accept any of our proposals, all of which were constructive and aimed to strengthen the text, to muscle it, to fight more effectively against Islamist separatism. We deeply regret it for our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, it is only in its title that the text has great ambitions; the reality of its content is quite different. Once again, we are faced with a bill of display, a dull and unambitious text. It is for this reason that the Republican Group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u159	On the bill as a whole, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and La France insubmission of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u160	For more than a century, secularism has established itself as a final value of our republican history, which was not a long, quiet river – or, more precisely, as the secular form of governance that France gave itself at the end of a long, confrontational history, in order to give Caesar and God their respective share. Secularized, lively and modern, secularism is now confronted with the integration of Islam into the republican community. Inalienable, for having demonstrated their great effectiveness, the values of secularism in French must be respected and strengthened in order to be shared by all. Comfort principles, fight separatism, yes! For today's threats to secularism and sometimes make it flicker call for an immense work of awareness-raising and pedagogy to teach the younger generations, and always to ourselves, that – I quote Abd al Malik – "He has secularism means that, in society, we are defined by our citizenship, and in no case by our religion. » Secularity is a value that must be taught. It is a matter of transmitting the foundations of a democratic and civic conscience, a republican pride that is believed to have disappeared every time we despair of the collective and that reappears forcefully when it finds itself threatened or traumatized by an event as overwhelming as the assassination of Samuel Paty. The secularism, its history, its unprecedented solution, its benefits, its virtue of peace and civil and ideological pacification, it is at school that it is learnt, transmitted, experienced. We therefore approve of the students' awareness of the proper use of digital tools and social networks, as well as the introduction of a day of secularism, which I had called for in a bill. Perhaps we could draw the attention of the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports to the idea of launching a national competition for secularism, a real school competition based on the teaching of civic education, history and philosophy, which, like the national competition for resistance and deportation, would be part of an approach to citizenship education and would form an essential part of the student's civic journey. This day would benefit from being relayed by the national programme companies France Télévisions, Radio France and France Médias Monde, without excluding the private-law media that could freely echo it. We could also invite the mayors of Franc and all those responsible for local and regional authorities to organize, through their associations, moments of celebration and – why not? – jubilation, as in Tourcoing or Halluin where I was able recently, with the mayor and representatives of all local religious denominations, to plant a tree of secularism. If secularism can be learned at school, it must also be celebrated in the city, with joy and in the hope of the potential for social peace it holds. The historian of the Republic, Michel Winock, affirms: "The fight of secularism is complicated, requires patience and pedagogy. But he's not lost in advance. It is not lost in advance, ladies and gentlemen! So let's lead him decisively. The creation of the offence of separatism gives us a tool that will allow us to punish any act of intimidation against a public official or any other person in charge of a public service mission. We can welcome this considerable progress. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Jacques Chirac said: "In France for all, the republican state is also secularism. I will modestly add that secularism is the most beautiful adornment of the republican state and its most solid and necessary bulwark. That is why, proud of having been able to contribute to the enrichment of this text, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of it with a resolute Republican enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u161	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u162	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 49 Against 19
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u163	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u164	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u165	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to strengthen occupational health prevention. (No 4317, 4385).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u166	Mrs Parmentier-Lecocq, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u167	It is with great joy that I find myself before you today, for the final reading of this text aimed at strengthening occupational health prevention. After the Occupational Health Organization Act in 2011 and the Occupational Health sections of the Modernisation of our Health System Act in 2016, this bill represents a decisive paradigm shift. It is the result of long-term work, and is a testament to a fertile alliance between social democracy and representative democracy. It opens wide the windows of health at work towards prevention and public health, the last few months of which have kept reminding us of the urgent need. This text draws its origins from numerous parliamentary proceedings, including those I submitted to the Government and the information report "For a Universal Occupational Health Service" by Senators Pascale Gruny and Stéphane Artano. The text is obviously also based on the resolute action of the social partners, who discussed for months to reach the National Interprofessional Agreement (ANI) of 9 December 2020 for a reinforced prevention and a renewed offer on health at work and working conditions. Let a bill translate a national interprofessional agreement, that was unprecedented! We can be pleased to have been faithful to the spirit of the agreement, to have taken up the many advances it entailed, to have walked hand in hand with employers' and trade union organisations. Translating an agreement widely signed by representative organisations is an honour. It is also a responsibility that requires, which has constantly irrigated our position on this text. However, we wanted to open it to new provisions, so that prevention and health services at work can finally take full possession of a culture of prevention and public health which is still too often lacking today. It is in this dual spirit of fidelity and ambition that my colleague the rapporteur Carole Grandjean and I have drawn up this text with the Senate rapporteurs, Pascale Gruny and Stéphane Artano, that I thank in particular for their constructive way of animating the link between the work of the two houses of Parliament. I would like to return to some of the points in Titles I and II, for which I have had the honour of being rapporteur. From ANI, we have taken up the proposal to include the Single Occupational Risk Assessment Document (DUERP) in the legislation. It will have to include a forward-looking action programme on health and safety at work – lightened for companies with fewer than 50 employees – which will help to anchor the action of all companies in a culture of risk assessment and anticipation. We have also taken over from the agreement the creation of a preventive passport, identifying occupational safety and health training for both workers and job seekers. Finally, within the offer offered by inter-firm services, we have distinguished a basic offer, covering all the usual tasks, and a complementary offer, which these same services will be able to offer to companies with specific needs, on the basis of flat-rate financing. The distinction between the two offers will be accompanied by a certification process, in order to encourage occupational health and prevention services to base their approach on quality benchmarks. However, as I said, our two assemblies have made a common path beyond the single interprofessional national agreement. In order to refurbish the missions of occupational health services, we have gradually expanded them in our debates, both in the Assembly and in the Senate. They now include immunization, screening, awareness-raising campaigns on persons with disabilities, special attention to telework and incentives for sports. These new tasks are in addition to the old preventive principle of combating any deterioration of health at work. Finally, I come to the break-up between occupational health and general medicine. The proposal to integrate occupational health services into the territorial occupational health communities (CPTS), adopted at the Assembly at first reading, was taken up by the Senate at first reading. In addition, in the CMP, we have maintained the contributions of our assembly concerning the access of the occupational doctor to the personal medical file (DMP), to Article 11 of the text, by preserving their balance, guaranteed by the restriction of access to the file to the occupational doctor alone and by the protection of the health data of the worker and his ability to consent, without consequences for his occupational situation. This long-term debate finds a happy and crucial resolution to ensure that workers' health monitoring is no longer affected by disruptions to their health. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] Improving the health of all workers in our country, preventing physical risks as psychosocial, accompanying businesses in a culture of prevention: the challenges and challenges were immense, I said at first reading. I am proud that our Parliament has not failed in its task and has stood up to these issues that affect all our contemporaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u168	Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u169	It is with great satisfaction and emotion that I, in turn, present the text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee, built in the dialogue between the two chambers and with respect for social dialogue. Particularly committed to social dialogue, we wanted a law that respects the balance found by the signatories of the national interprofessional agreement of 9 December 2020, but which complements it, the political structure, in order to strengthen the culture of prevention, the division between occupational health and public health and the fight against occupational disintegration. I will focus for a moment on some of the features of Titles III and IV. In order to improve the monitoring of the health status of workers, the proposal for a law, following the guidelines adopted by the social partners, creates a new mid-career medical examination. This will enable the occupational physician or nurse practising in advanced practice to assess the health status of workers, regardless of their occupational branch and workplace, to assess the risk of occupational disintegration, to raise awareness of the issues of ageing at work and to prevent occupational risks by proposing, where appropriate, job adjustment measures or working hours. Moreover, many provisions open up the possibility for new categories of workers to be accompanied for their health at work – I am thinking of self-employed workers and entrepreneurs, who, except for exceptions, do not benefit from any support to date. I am also thinking of the employees of individual employers, who are 1.2 million in our country. Despite the provisions of the interbranch framework agreement of 24 November 2016, these are currently not followed by occupational medicine. I would also like to stress the creation of a legal basis for the use of medical or remote care practices by health professionals at work, in order to facilitate the monitoring of the health status of workers for whom enhanced surveillance is not necessary. The bill will also enable health nurses to be accompanied at work – whose training will have to meet new requirements – by introducing an additional player in the ecosystem, the corresponding physician practitioner, and strengthening the multidisciplinary team. In order to better prevent job disintegration – our goal for all – the text provides for a dedicated prevention unit. I also welcome the fact that the text promotes the use of the supervised trial and the vocational rehabilitation agreement, two useful tools in the area of disintegration, which will help to meet the challenge of retraining and the employment of older people. The fight against occupational disintegration must be organised through cooperation. I would like to mention, among the advances which are particularly close to my heart, the creation of the liaison meeting between the employer and the employee at work, which is intended to better prepare the return of the employee to the company and will be held in the presence of the prevention and health department at work, in accordance with the solution chosen by our assembly. Finally, I turn to the governance of the system and the internal functioning of services, which will be modernised, inter alia, by two actors: the national committee on prevention and health at work, on the one hand, and the regional committees on prevention and health at work, on the other. They will improve the direction of health and safety policy at national and regional level for the latter. Here we are creating the conditions for an overall improvement in the care of workers through occupational medicine and the prevention of occupational disintegration, in full coherence with both the objectives of the social partners that are signatories to ANI and with our political commitments. I welcome the work done by the Senate at first reading, as well as the very constructive dialogue with the rapporteurs appointed by its Social Affairs Committee, Mrs Pascale Gruny and Mr Stéphane Artano, throughout the process of drafting the law. I thank them very much. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] I think I can say that we have fulfilled our commitments to the social partners, but also that Parliament has been able to go beyond their discussions, by introducing in the text necessary and operational provisions, in order to do more and better, at the service of a fundamental cause: the health of workers in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u170	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u171	Like the rapporteurs, I am pleased to see you in this Chamber, after the Joint Joint Committee's work on the proposal for a law to strengthen the prevention of health at work. This is the end of the legislative process for a text that your Assembly has seen born, and the Government is pleased that Parliament has reached a constructive agreement. Indeed, this text contains very good progress, which the Government supports and which will enable health at work to respond to the challenges of the current world of work. First of all, it strengthens the role of companies in the deployment of a culture of prevention, going beyond the historical approach, focusing mainly on fitness and reparation. I welcome the representatives of the business world who have understood the importance of this issue and of the quality of life at work, which is conducive both to the development of the company and to the development of the employee. Another important step forward is the opening up of occupational health to other health sectors, thanks to the opportunity given to the occupational doctor to access the worker's medical file. New forms of collaboration will be allowed by this text and will strengthen coordination between occupational medicine and city medicine. A health prevention in modern work is also a service offering corresponding to today's career paths, which are much more diverse than those of the past. The mid-career visit requested by the social partners in their agreement will allow, as its name suggests, to make a mid-career point in order to identify any inadequacies between the workplace and the employee's health, and thus to build career prospects adapted to the individual's situation. Companies have an important role to play in the follow-up to these visits. The establishment of liaison meetings will allow the employee and the employer to meet in the presence of the prevention and health department at work during a work stoppage. Preparing for the return to work of an employee who undergoes a stoppage is an essential step in promoting retention in employment. This bill also responds to the challenges of less linear career paths than in the past, by organising a suitable occupational health offer – for self-employed workers, temporary workers, or employees of individual employers. It incorporates new forms of work organisation, including distance work. The monitoring of occupational health is therefore no longer dependent on the status of the worker, his sector of activity or his methods of intervention. This is a considerable step forward for the generalisation of this monitoring and protection. Lastly, the Government welcomed the progress made in that text in combating sexual harassment. They are the result of the joint work of the Assembly and the Senate and are in line with the bill ratifying International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention No. 190, which you will be considering earlier. In the face of such progress, I would particularly like to thank the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of your Assembly, dear Fadila Khattabi, the rapporteur, dear Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq, dear Carole Grandjean, and all the members of the Joint Joint Committee of the two Assemblies. This high-quality work leads to a solid and balanced text which, in line with the Government's commitment, gives a legislative and democratic reality to the national interprofessional agreement concluded by the social partners in December 2020. I would like to stress once again the strength of this complementarity combining the vitality of our social dialogue with that of our representative democracy – in the interest and for the benefit of the health of 19 million employees and their employers. The ongoing health crisis reminds us every day of the essential challenge of improving health at work – on which the Government is fully engaged. Through this mobilisation, we also meet the expectations of employees and companies that I have been able to measure on my many trips to health services at work – inter-firm, but also autonomous – in recent months. Learning from the health crisis that we have been through for over a year and a half is essential. A feedback on its consequences must allow us to build together a model of occupational health closer to the company and the employees, giving a significant place to the support and advice for the deployment of collective protection measures. It is the meaning of history to adapt our health care system to the new forms of employment and work organisation. The Government is ready to do so, as are all the actors, whom I know to be mobilized. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] Thus, in the same spirit of consensus that has animated us throughout the parliamentary debate, I invite you to follow the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee and to vote on the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u172	In the general debate, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u173	We are here to vote on a final reading of the law to strengthen occupational health prevention. It is a way that you have to make believe that you are repairing something that you actually destroyed recently, by the labour law imposed by Emmanuel Macron since his election in 2017; a law which has, in particular, abolished the Committees on Health, Safety and Working Conditions (CHSCT), these bodies responsible for ensuring the health of workers, independently, in the undertaking; a law that has gone back on the number of factors of penitibility, has introduced the capping of labour compensation and has reversed the hierarchy of standards between business agreements and branch agreements – all measures dictated by simplification, flexibility and flexibility, which have become a real dogma. To make us forget all this, you propose a law: but what are you proposing? You boast that the decisions taken by the employers' and wage unions within the framework of the ANI, as if they were a guarantee of legitimacy, will be translated into law. ANI is so perfect that we have defended many of the amendments proposed by the trade unions – which I remind you are not all signatories to this agreement. This law is severely under-ambitious and poses many threats to workers. It involves additional documents – preventive passport, single assessment document – at the risk of discharging the employer's responsibilities; delegation of expertise and telemedicine, at the risk of damaging the quality of medical visits; liberalisation of the occupational health sector through certification by private bodies; as well as the creation of a mid-career visit, which could be similar to a check visit to check whether the employee is still employable. A pass, a job; a check visit, a job: you are really very strong! This law also provides for public health missions that remove occupational medicine from its core business; and new committees, as we like them in La République en marche. Anyway, emptiness, emptiness, and emptiness! When I think about what could be done in terms of occupational health, I am thinking of Amazon employees, who are subjected to voice commands throughout the day dictating what to do to the second. We could ban this type of practice. I am thinking of my fellow caregivers who suffer from musculoskeletal disorders as a result of having to carry patients. We could impose ratios of caregivers per resident and per patient to relieve them, rather than stigmatize them as you have done in recent days. I'm thinking of relatives who had burn-outs at work. We could recognize this occupational disease as an incentive for businesses to prevent this risk, as my parliamentary group has proposed. I am thinking of the sewerers, without whom our streets would be pestilential, and who have a life expectancy 17 years below the national average. We could reduce the length of their job. I am thinking of people who work at night or in the evening and who have increased health problems. We could reduce the use of these schedules by companies. I am thinking of the new forms of management that have emerged and the people who commit suicide because of harassment at work. We could ensure that occupational medicine is truly independent of the employer to prevent these risks. I am thinking of farmers, whom you have completely excluded from the scope of this bill. We could strengthen the independence and power of occupational physicians. Six hundred doctors at work wrote to alert you about the dangers of this text! By delegating some of their missions to health professionals even less protected than them, you make the submission of occupational medicine to the economic imperatives of companies worse! There would be so much to do. But no, all the demands we make are considered irrelevant. Yet it is your law that is out of the question! But, as often, to avoid talking about a problem, you choose to ignore it, which allows you to never take our proposals into account. Thus, the President of the Republic does not like the term penitence, he not only removed it from the labour code but also erased it from your consciences. You are arrogant by having this text voted but, almost at the same time, you are imposing the reform of unemployment insurance and putting the reform of pensions back on the job, without taking into account their consequences for the health of workers. The life expectancy gap between a worker and a manager is currently six years: how much will this gap increase after your quinquennium? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, and because we do not have the same conception of work or the same awareness of workers, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u174	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u175	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u176	For more than a year, the situation of a health, economic and social crisis has sometimes made it possible to rehabilitate social dialogue and collective bargaining, which had been largely underestimated or denigrated in recent years. Our group can only be pleased to be able to adopt a text whose ambition is to transpose into law the conclusions of the national interprofessional agreement, especially since the negotiations had been difficult, and had even failed in July 2019. However, it was more than urgent to improve our occupational health policy, as it has been outstanding for many years. As a result of the health crisis, health and well-being at work have again become central concerns for our citizens. However, existing dysfunctions have worsened. Let us recall the findings we have already made: a shortage of doctors at work, an illegible and difficult system of access, territorial inequalities. Renovating our health policy at work means giving itself the ambition to tackle the effects of career precarisation on the monitoring and health of employees; it is to respond to their physical, but also psychic, suffering, which has greatly increased in recent months and whose magnitude we still do not measure well; It also reinforces the logic of prevention, which requires constant attention to the new risks associated with changes in work. In general, our group is satisfied that agreement has been reached in the Joint Joint Committee. As we said at the beginning of our work, it was essential for us to ensure that the transposition of the national interprofessional agreement respected the balances found by the social partners. At first reading, our group had also supported several amendments to include in the law certain provisions adopted by the ANI which were not included in the original text. Most of them were adopted and retained in the final text, which we welcome. At the end of the CMP, the broad guidelines of the national interprofessional agreement are satisfied. The proposal for a law will allow for progress: the division between public health and health at work – in particular through the supervised access to the shared medical file; strengthening the prevention logic through the establishment of the annual programme for the prevention of occupational risks and the improvement of working conditions; improving the governance of occupational health services or supporting vulnerable audiences and combating job disintegration. On the latter point, it was absolutely imperative to take better account of workers with disabilities. Beyond these satisfecits, which are also conditional on the practical implementation of the measures announced on the ground, there are still some regrets, and the feeling that this bill will not solve all the malfunctions or shortcomings. Let us not underestimate the physical and psychological suffering that work can cause, and let us strive to better detect, prevent and repair it. If our group is pleased to see that the text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee has maintained and enriched our proposal to take better account of situations of poly-exposure, we would have liked to go further and clarify clearly in the law the different categories of occupational hazards, in particular by taking into account chemical risks. Moreover, this text will of course not solve the central question of the shortage of doctors at work. We have a doctor for 4000 employees in the private sector, half as much as 15 years ago. The text of the CMP limits the use of corresponding doctors to territories where a shortage of occupational doctors has been identified: it is better than the original text, but it is not entirely satisfactory. However, this issue is all the more worrying as the bill creates new obligations for doctors at work – mid-career visits, vaccination, screening, and the care of new audiences such as the self-employed and temporary workers. The delegation of tasks and the advanced practice for occupational health nurses seem to us to be more realistic solutions – we still need to be able to move forward on the status, training and protection of these nurses, as is the case for occupational physicians. [[Mrs Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur, and Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, applaud]] This text therefore has several shortcomings. His perimeter seems limited to us. But progress has been made. Our group will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u177	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u178	Work remains in the shadows. Work is the gesture by which humanity binds and engages itself to meet its needs, to accomplish its projects, to create the conditions of its present and future. In the work, it is the human that is mobilized. Work produces wealth – by the way, only work produces it – but it can also be what destroys humans and the planet. The question arises as to why we are mobilizing work, that is, time, energy and human creativity. The question also arises as to how we mobilize it. Unrelentingly, the meaning and the conditions are combined. It must be conceived as a gesture of emancipation. Yet it is mistreated, subject to the logics of productivity, competitiveness and profitability imposed on it by the capitalist system. The great civilizing movement that has loosened this vice is more than ever on the agenda, so many attacks come to make work a physical, psychic or social suffering. Acting for health at work is a great cause. With this text, which tries to repair the breakage of "work orders", we are not there. We are not there, because the work itself, in a certain way, is not enough: we do not leave the office, the factory, the workshop, the cabin, the cash register. We are not there, because the measure is not taken of what the care of the work would imply. In this text, which adds some provisions – some from an interprofessional national agreement of which you have set the framework, others not – there is a good one: the archiving of unique risk exposure documents, a measure that keeps the memory, and some necessary adjustments. But most of all, there is much less good and misconceptions. There is a need to be concerned about the introduction of market logics in occupational health services, with this basic offer – i.e. a minimum occupational health service that is open to abandonment – and with certification by private bodies. The introduction of a mid-career visit seems to have no real added value and may even devalue "ordinary" visits. The pre-resumption visit with the employer may be subject to pressure. As for the use of city doctors to practice occupational medicine, this will not be a solution. It would have required a real reform of occupational health services. In short, it is unlikely that this text will lead to a real strengthening of action to promote health at work. We are not well protected at work and we will not be much better after this vote. The Government had defined – perhaps even limited – the roadmap of the social partners. There is no enthusiasm or unanimity in the public space about this text today; Yet there was much to do. This new text, I regret, will not make it possible to repair everything that has been done: the removal of CHSCT, a powerful tool for the fight for health at work, with the participation of the first and the first concerned and real powers; the removal of certain factors of penitibility – I am thinking in particular of chemical risks; attacks on labour law. You have removed the rules that protect health at source. This new text will not allow us to project ourselves in the future through vigorous action to promote health at work. I want to stress the action to be taken against the eliminationable diseases; We're not doing enough to attack the evil at the root. In the industrial-port area of the Gulf of Fos-sur-Mer, for example, there is much better to do to ensure that women and men do not lose their lives to earning it. The work is too often suffered, with all the health consequences that this implies. This issue should be the subject of exchanges and actions everywhere, the employees of which would be the actors and actors. To do so, they must be given new rights. It's all the other way round that's been done. Humans must be respected at work and work must be respected. Respecting it is an effort to make it part of a common work, which is constantly seeking meaning. In 2012, a large survey of the work commissioned by Radio France asked this question: how do you feel about your work today? "I'm tired" was the answer of 27% of respondents; "It's hard, but I can do it," said 24% of them; "It's so hard that I want to leave," replied more than 13%. Conversely, only 25% responded "that's good" and 5% "that's great". Less than a third of respondents were happy at work. [[MM. Alain David and Gérard Leseul applaud]] Work is one of the nerve centres of social contradictions, which, alas, is increasingly destined to be a variable of adjustment; Of course, it's health. We are in the presence of a large construction site which calls for the contestation of the power of finance and the invention of other social relations. Health at work needs a new impetus; We're far from it. Far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u179	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u180	I associate myself with my speech, Mrs Catherine Fabre, co-responsible for the La République group on the move. Voulue in his mind by the presidential majority and by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium, in the shared aspect of public action, this bill, co-signed by members of the groups The Republic on the move, Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats and Acting together, proposes a change of approach in the field of health at work. It prints a desire for evolution of medical action at work: to prevent before healing, then to heal before repairing. The bill innovates by its method: for the first time the deputies – in this case, the two rapporteurs – have decided to transpose directly into the law a national interprofessional agreement without neglecting any point. Unpublished, this approach demonstrates deep respect for the negotiations between the social partners and a strong desire to propose measures already validated by social democracy to national representation. The rapporteurs also ensured the soundness of their text by soliciting and integrating various comments from the Council of State. As amended and enriched, this proposal is the result of a long-term effort that brought together parliamentarians from various groups in the National Assembly and the Senate. I would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean, Mrs and Mrs Lecocq. the members of both the majority and the opposition, as well as our Senate counterparts, who have made this text a success of Parliament. The Joint Joint Committee has produced a balanced text, yet innovative and pragmatic, which reflects a common ambition. The proposed law allows first of all to strengthen the culture of prevention within companies. The single occupational risk assessment document allows for better traceability of occupational exposures. Other tools, such as the preventive passport and the increase in the length of training of workers, help to infuse the culture of prevention with each employee. The text also helps to standardise the quality of inter-firm services by defining a common core offer for all services and creating a new certification repository. It was necessary to complete the elements on this point, to generalize the offers and to do so in a transparent manner. Improvements have also been made for some employees, who are too little included in the schemes: I am thinking of disabled workers, temporary workers, employees of subcontracting companies, service providers and entrepreneurs. The text strengthens the overall fight against occupational disintegration by creating a mid-career medical examination, which will, inter alia, make it possible to adapt workplaces to the health status of workers. The same applies to the liaison meeting, which organises the return of an employee in the best conditions after a long absence. The bill helps to break down two co-existing worlds: occupational health and public health. The new measures designed to contribute to this are numerous: the opening of the medical file shared with the occupational doctor; the inclusion of occupational physicians in the territorial occupational health communities; the possibility of using corresponding medical practitioners in deficit areas; participation of prevention services in general actions to promote health in the workplace; the creation of a genuine occupational health nurse status; recognition of the essential role of physiotherapists, occupational therapists and psychomotricians. Finally, the bill addresses the issue of telework. The health crisis, out of necessity and urgency, has revealed new challenges, and therefore the need to evolve by responding to new problems. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the Dem group and on the bench of commissions]] Ladies and gentlemen, senators have already passed the MPC bill. On behalf of the La République Group, I invite you to take the same path and vote in favour of this text on all the benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u181	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u182	The work that leads us to debate and legislate on occupational health prevention has highlighted a consensus on the importance of this topic to society. Even though this collective awareness would be the only positive point to remember, it would represent a real step forward. The health of employees, both physical and mental, is now taking all the place it deserves, in the interests of the actors involved, employees and employers, but also in that of the country as a whole. It seems to me essential to recall that the basis of parliamentary work has inevitably remained the national interprofessional agreement reached by the social partners. It has been a beacon that has guided parliamentarians, including Members of the Republican Group, towards the objective of providing concrete, adaptable and business-friendly responses. The time that has been given to social partners, Members of Parliament and Senators to debate calmly is the assurance that companies will be able to appropriate health prevention in a way that benefits all working environments. In our country, where the economic fabric of the private sector is characterized by 80 per cent of enterprises with fewer than 10 employees, occupational health and prevention services will indeed have a prominent place in the system. The successful text before us has been enriched by the important work done by senators and by the Joint Joint Committee, which was held on 19 July. It gives prevention and health services at work the means to ensure an effective, coherent service, ensuring fair treatment for all companies and employees. Their offer will be better defined in the social dialogue and will be certified by a third party. This is a very structuring step forward for the consistency and quality of the service rendered. Within this framework, each occupational health and prevention professional will more easily integrate his/her action into the general organization formalized in the service project, for greater efficiency. The bill provides a sound framework for ensuring national coherence in health and prevention at work, but also leaves the flexibility needed to apply to different contexts. It reinforces prevention for all companies, thanks to risk assessment assistance, but without excessive formalism for the smallest of them. Finally, it recognises that entrepreneurs and self-employed people are also workers whose health matters; They will be able to benefit from an accompaniment if they choose to do so, which is an important step forward. The bill contains another important step forward: the establishment of an interoperability framework for the information systems of occupational health and prevention services. This augurs for a very significant increase in the traceability and portability of occupational health data, as well as in the development of knowledge in this field. The text provides for the use of corresponding medical practitioners and nurses practising in advanced practice. On paper, this provision creates possibilities for care, but we will have to remain vigilant as to its effectiveness: it will be long, if not difficult to apply, given the demographics of general practitioners and the prerequisites for their mobilisation – especially since it is absolutely not certain that they want to get involved in this scheme. It is to be welcomed that the text establishes a wider range of mobilizable skills to accompany companies and employees, always under the authority of a doctor at work, with a special protective status. However, the issue of the attractiveness of occupational medicine is unfortunately not sufficiently addressed. It is not enough to allow the prescription of care or work stoppages on an experimental basis: the specialty cannot find its interest in the attributes of other specialties. On the other hand, one may wonder whether the new skills of occupational physicians are not neutral for social accounts and the reaction that this gives to liberal doctors. The issue of attractiveness in the future may therefore need to be addressed more specifically. Because prevention in the field of occupational health cannot be strengthened without qualified occupational physicians, who have chosen to embrace this specialty. [[Rapporteurs Carole Grandjean and Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq applaud]] The text before us is broadly in line with the national interprofessional agreement negotiated by the social partners, so the Republican Group will vote for its adoption. This favourable vote, however, must not overshadow an essential aspect. Many subjects are referred to the decrees. The success of the reform will therefore depend significantly on its drafting. We will ensure that the executive respects the letter, but also the spirit, of the bill that – I wish – will be voted on later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u183	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u184	A few blocks away from the summer break and in the context of the examination of new measures to manage the health crisis, we find ourselves in order to adopt a text which also aims to preserve the health of our citizens, in the specific working environment. In an unprecedented way, it is in a legislative vehicle of parliamentary origin that will be transcribed the inter-union discussions which led to a national inter-professional agreement concluded last December "for a reinforced prevention and a renewed offer in the field of occupational health and working conditions". The text has been submitted to the Council of State, and our discussions have largely taken its opinion into account. From the beginning of the legislature, through numerous proceedings, parliamentarians have shown their interest in these issues, like the two rapporteurs, whose investment and listening upstream and during the examination of the text have enabled this reform to succeed. Members of the Dem Group welcome the fact that the two chambers agreed on the joint committee; We consider that the version submitted to our vote contains concrete progress. First of all, the text strengthens prevention within companies and breaks down public health and health at work. We welcome the consolidation of the single occupational risk assessment document, together with the creation of a personal preventive passport, which will identify all occupational risk prevention training. In order to strengthen the link between occupational medicine and public health, occupational health and prevention services will have their scope extended to include public health missions, such as prevention and screening campaigns, as well as health promotion activities, including sports. Since the beginning of the legislature, our group has made prevention a battlehorse, so it welcomes these provisions with great satisfaction. The ambition they serve will be nurtured by an improved and better-structured offer of prevention services, thanks to a set of mandatory offers and certification. The organisation of occupational medicine will now be strengthened in order to pay particular attention to vulnerable or disabled people. In addition, the fight against job disintegration will become a full-fledged mission of occupational health services. In an increasingly evolving labour market, the risk of disintegration increases; It is essential to identify, raise awareness and support, regardless of the individual situations of employees. The text also reforms the organisation of governance, which is shared between the actors in prevention and health at work. It seemed necessary to boost the powers of the medical professions involved in the proper functioning of this particular medicine. Therefore, the creation of the corresponding medical practitioner status, the guarantee for the occupational physician to be able to exercise his third time in the workplace and the extension of the delegation of skills to the multidisciplinary team are concrete and welcome measures for the proper functioning of this ecosystem. Finally, we welcome the opportunity for occupational health nurses to practice in advanced practice, after validation of ad hoc training. This is in line with the spirit of the various legislative reforms already adopted concerning the organization of the health system. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] In conclusion, the Dem Group will support the adoption of the text in its version of the Joint Joint Committee, the outcome of the process initiated by the national interprofessional agreement; This bill will help to improve the health care of workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u185	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u186	We are coming to the end of the parliamentary review of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. Our honourable senators have made some positive changes to this text. Thus, in the field of combating sexual harassment, they amended its definition in the Labour Code, at the initiative of the Socialist Group. It now provides that harassment is constituted when it is suffered by the victim, not when it is imposed by the perpetrator. Nevertheless, despite some additions, the general balance of the text is not changed, and the defects and shortcomings that we raised from the first reading are still present. Unfortunately, this bill is not capable of making occupational medicine attractive. Yet the needs are growing. The covid crisis and the disruption of working conditions have led to a deterioration in the health of workers, with a significant increase in psychosocial disorders, such as DARES – Directorate for the animation of research, studies and statistics – has identified it, pointing to the doubling of the risk of depression and a significant deterioration in the health of employees. Of course, the text largely reflects the conclusions of the national interprofessional agreement signed last December almost unanimously by the trade union confederations, with the exception of a large central office. However, paradoxically, the health professionals at work, who are the first concerned, have not been sufficiently associated with it and have not failed to oppose certain criticisms of your text. To the point that 800 occupational doctors wrote to the deputies asking for fairly radical adjustments to the bill. They denounced the lack of significant progress in the prevention of occupational risks and an unprecedented decline in the protection of employees, linked to the new organisation of their follow-up, which returns back to back occupational doctors and general practitioners. Thus, our criticism of this text at first reading remains the same. First of all, the fear of preserving the medical secret between occupational medicine, city medicine and hospital remains intact; The discussions did not provide sufficient reassurance. Secondly, we continue to see it as a management of the shortage: under the guise of a reorganisation of governance and a harmonisation of supply, the unbundling of public health and health at work ignores the medical desertification of many of our territories. Finally, mention should be made of the shortcomings and issues insufficiently addressed in this text: the proper articulation of health and labour inspection, the responsibility of employers in the event of accidents at work or suicide, psycho-social risks, penitibility, quality of life at work, the health of workers in inter-contract or job search. In reality, there is a shift towards public health and overall health promotion missions and a dilution of the occupational health mission to the benefit of an enterprise health concept. For our part, we believe that the prevention of occupational diseases and psychosocial risks should be a priority. Full physical and mental health at work is the condition of an emancipated job and a dimension of social justice. In our view, a true occupational health policy must aim at a threefold objective: to better understand and identify occupational risks and diseases by strengthening occupational health research and monitoring bodies; better prevent them by ensuring timely and high-quality access to a unified public health and prevention service at work and better monitoring of workers; better recognize and repair them, in particular by revising the table of occupational diseases to take into account emerging risks and poly-exposures, but also by lowering the minimum rate of permanent partial incapacity – recognition of psychic conditions such as burn-out – and by re-establishing the criteria of penitibility. We'll be back on the long covid. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] These objectives of a major occupational health policy are not reflected in your text, which reinforces us in the idea that this is a missed opportunity, a bill from a vision that is still too technical and without much breath. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u187	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u188	On Monday, the Joint Joint Committee reached agreement on the draft law to strengthen occupational health prevention, of which Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean are the Rapporteurs. I would first like to welcome their work on this text; It is the result of an unprecedented process of legislative construction, which has involved parliamentarians, social partners and the Government. For having often talked to them, I know how much they have invested for months and months to strengthen and value this essential addition. The Action Together Group is very committed to any dialectic that promotes a rich, structured and constructive social dialogue that serves the health and well-being of our fellow citizens. The aim of the draft law is to transpose the legislative provisions of the national interprofessional agreement on health at work, signed by almost all the social partners on 10 December 2020. The agreement reached in the CMP confirms major advances in the prevention and protection of health at work, without distorting the balance of the interprofessional agreement. Moreover, this text fulfils the commitment we made here a year ago by adopting the majority resolution to make health at work a priority of public policy. The proposed law has four main axes. The first concerns prevention within companies and the division between occupational health and public health. Crises have the virtue of revealing the strengths and weaknesses of the systems they strike. That of the covid-19 revealed the specificities of our occupational health system, its strengths and its flaws. It highlighted the crucial health role of companies. They have also acted on the front lines to protect the health of their employees and to curb the spread of the virus. With this text, we strengthen prevention within companies, we bring public health closer to health at work. It is the mission of occupational health and prevention services, which will play a key role in the development of occupational public health policies. In line with the health context, they will now be able to participate in vaccination and screening campaigns. Measures to prevent and improve working conditions will now be included in the single occupational risk assessment document. In this connection, we welcome the fact that the committee has adopted an amendment by our colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, to include the psychosocial risks associated with the organisation of work within the scope of the employer's assessment. The second axis of the text aims at better defining the provision of services to enterprises and employees. This is in particular the purpose of the provision authorising the opening of the medical file shared with the occupational doctor, with the consent of the patient, which will enable the job to be adapted to the specific needs of the employee and to prevent the risk of occupational disintegration. The fight against occupational disintegration is the third axis of this bill. Indeed, work is not always a painful struggle, as some would suggest, but first of all a vector of emancipation. It must enable everyone to perform in society, which is why it is essential to better combat the risk of occupational disintegration, which is first and foremost a watch job based on the actors of the company best placed to identify situations of ill-being, in connection with occupational medicine. The text creates new appointments, to better prevent the risk of disintegration, with the mid-career visit or liaison maintenance, allowing the employee on long-term sick leave to anticipate, at his request, his return in the best conditions. Finally, the proposed law aims to reorganise the governance of prevention and health at work, building on the developments envisaged by the ANI to strengthen coordination between the various national and local actors in occupational health. More cross-cuttingly, this text also provides answers to the demographic challenge facing occupational medicine: almost 60 per cent of occupational physicians are over 55 years of age, and the shortage is becoming alarming in some rural areas. By promoting the delegation of competence to nurses in advanced practice, by creating the corresponding medical status,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u189	If they get vaccinated, they'll be fired!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u190	... the future law will help to strengthen the workforce of occupational medicine in the under-funded territories. The Action Together Group also welcomes the provision for medical follow-up for self-employed workers, an essential protection measure for those who too often escape the protections offered by labour law. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In short, our group welcomes the considerable progress contained in this text, which we have largely co-signed. As you will have understood, we will therefore vote with conviction and enthusiasm for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u191	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u192	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u193	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u194	I will defend Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 concerning Articles 5, 9 and 12 respectively, which are three purely coordinated amendments. I invite the National Assembly to adopt them, as the Senate did two days ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u195	The Government's amendment No. 2 was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u196	Amendment No. 3 of the Government was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u197	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u198	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 48 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u199	The next item is the discussion of the bill, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, authorizing the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work (No. 4216, 4366).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u200	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u201	On 21 June 2019, at its one-hundred-and-eighth session, known as the centennial session, the General Conference of the International Labour Organization (ILO) adopted Convention No. 190 to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work. This convention was expected of all: ILO Member States, our citizens, non-governmental organisations, social partners. This text is a pioneer, as it is the first binding, universal standard aimed at eradicating violence and harassment in the world of work. The ambition of the convention is to ensure that each and every one of us has the right to evolve in a world of work where no violence should have its place. To this end, this text establishes a structured and coherent international framework. The convention is based on a simple principle: the world of work must assume its responsibilities when an act of violence or harassment is committed "on occasion, in connection with, or in connection with, the work". Article 1 provides the first international definition of violence and harassment in the workplace, characterized by "a set of unacceptable behaviour and practices, or threats of such behaviour and practices, whether on one occasion or repeatedly, which are intended to cause, cause or are likely to cause physical, psychological, sexual or economic harm, and which includes gender-based violence and harassment". Yes, ladies and gentlemen, violence and harassment at work are multifaceted: this definition covers all these unacceptable acts in the professional sphere, all too often ignored. Thus, the Convention recognizes the right of every person to live in a world of work free from violence and harassment. It pays particular attention to gender-based violence. In this regard, article 2 recalls that no one should be subjected to violence and harassment at work. States that have ratified the text will be required to provide means to protect everyone in the world of work, regardless of their status: wage earner, contract worker, trainee, volunteer, job seeker. It is a matter of leaving no one behind, without special protection. To this end, and in order to prevent harassment and violence at work as early as possible, the Convention calls on all stakeholders – public authorities, employers, workers, social partners – to mobilize in order to unite their efforts in preventing and protecting against all forms of violence and harassment in the workplace. Recommendation No. 206, which is not a binding text subject to ratification by States, specifies the implementation of the Convention. It was essential that the convention should define a level of standards that guaranteed fundamental protections against harassment and violence, and that, at the same time, could be adopted by the largest number of countries in the world. Its scope is particularly wide. It must be read in the light of obligations which, in turn, are adapted to the responsibilities of each individual. The convention provides that employers must take appropriate measures "in accordance with their degree of control" to prevent violence and harassment in the workplace, "to the extent that this is reasonable and practically feasible". In doing so, it calls on all actors in the world of work, private or public employers, workers, trade unions and employers' organisations, customers and third parties, to act with all the means at their disposal to combat violence and harassment. By assuming the role of spokesperson for the European Union and its Member States during the two years of talks, France has played a leading role in the negotiation and adoption of this text. The results are up to our expectations. As you will have understood, this bill ratifying ILO Convention No. 190 is of major importance to our country, which, thanks to your approval, will be among the first to ratify this ambitious text. In this regard, the Government welcomes the adoption of the text by the Foreign Affairs Committee last Tuesday with a great deal of unanimity: its objectives, both political and diplomatic, make it possible to transcend the various sensitivities. The ratification of the Convention will ensure that the President of the Republic is committed to equality between women and men. The emergence of the # MeToo movement in recent years has highlighted the still strong persistence of harassment and violence in our societies; It saves, of course, not the world of work. A recent survey conducted in France, Germany, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom shows that 60% of European respondents have already experienced some form of sexism, or sexual harassment at work, during their working life. The President of the Republic has made equality between women and men the "major national cause" of the quinquennium: the fight against harassment and violence in the world of work is an integral part of it. Four years later, the record is unequivocal: the actions followed the words and commitments we had made, which resulted in the Grenelle taking action against domestic violence, in which the Government took a series of measures to combat violence against women more effectively, particularly in the workplace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u202	We saw the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u203	Very concretely, we have witnessed the early release of wage savings for victims of domestic violence. This measure, which has been in force since June 2020, allows victims of domestic violence to have funds available within a short period of time, to cope with the material changes imposed by their situation, for example if they are forced to move. Always very concretely, we have integrated domestic violence into the guide on professional equality for the very small enterprises and SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – in order to support them in dealing with these situations of violence. Finally, we are considering integrating domestic violence into the future occupational health plan and regional occupational health plans. Strengthening the mobilization of all actors, including businesses, in the fight against such violence is indeed essential. The Minister of Labour, Élisabeth Borne, recently recalled her determination to ratify Convention No. 190, on the occasion of the Forum Génération Egalité, which met in Paris from 30 June to 2 July, in the presence of some 60 Heads of State and Government, as well as actors from all over the world. France's voice on this issue is therefore unequivocal. We have consistently and firmly reiterated our position to all of our international partners. All together, let us act now for a better world of work, and let us make every possible effort to eradicate violence and harassment in all its forms! We have done much since the beginning of the quinquennium, as evidenced by the impact study of the bill, which concluded that our domestic law is compatible with the provisions of ILO Convention No. 190. Thus, all the protection mechanisms that we have put in place make France a driving force and exemplary country in the prevention and suppression of violence and harassment at work. I think, for example, of the focal points in the fight against sexual harassment and gender-based behaviour. Created in 2018, within the framework of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, they intervene in all companies with more than 250 employees, in order to prevent, act and combat gender-based acts and acts of sexual harassment at work. More comprehensively, the employer's responsibility for harassment and combating violence is firmly established in the legislation. First, the Labour Code defines and prohibits moral harassment, sexual harassment and gender-based conduct. The bill to strengthen occupational health prevention, which you have just adopted, has also come to clarify these definitions and better align them with the penal code. It also allows for the punishment of all types of violence, even unrepeated, including in the context of work. More generally, on the basis of the employer's general security obligation, the employer's civil liability may be incurred for all types of violence against a worker in the course of his or her activity. The social partners also have an active role to play in combating harassment and violence at work. Employers are required to negotiate every four years on the quality of life at work; In this context, the method agreement may provide for specific negotiations on actions to prevent violence and harassment. At the branch level, there is also a four-year bargaining obligation on the provision of tools to companies to prevent and act against sexual harassment and gender-based behaviour. As you will have understood, this ratification is not only symbolic. It is a continuation of the Government's action to put an end to harassment and violence. I am convinced that a sound legal framework cannot really produce results without a genuine commitment from all the actors involved: the fight against violence and harassment requires constant mobilization and renewed efforts. Therefore, ratification of the Convention does not mark the end of the process. On the contrary, once ratified, this Convention and the principles it lays down will have to be applied. Workers in the world of work will now be able to take ownership of it. The social partners will be able to make it live through social dialogue and translate it into concrete measures adapted to the realities and challenges of the world of work. The social partners have a key role to play within the branches and enterprises to negotiate ambitious arrangements on these subjects, not all of which are intended to be included in the law. I am thinking in particular of the question of taking into account domestic violence in the organisation of work within the company. These questions need to be dealt with as closely as possible to find relevant answers. Finally, in order to be applied, these rules must be known. Training of all stakeholders – employees, employers, social partners – is therefore essential to make them vigilant and accountable in the fight against harassment and violence at work. The protective devices exist, and we must take full, complete and effective ownership of them! Yes, for that, ladies and gentlemen, let us all take our part and our responsibilities in mobilizing. I appeal to the elected representatives you are, to the companies, to the workers, to the social partners or to the associations. The right must always take precedence over fear, shame and silence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] The Government invites you to ratify the first binding international text aimed at eradicating violence and harassment in the workplace; You will thus allow France to continue its leading role and to continue to be exemplary on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u204	Mr Mustapha Laabid, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u205	When an agreement was reached in June 2019 on what would become International Labour Organization Convention No. 190, it had been almost ten years since any convention had come into being in this body. The adoption of this international convention deserves to be hailed as a victory. First, it is a victory over form, because the international community has adopted not just a recommendation, but a binding convention, which is binding on all countries that have ratified it. It is also a victory over the substance, because the convention fills a void: it is the first international norm aimed at ending violence and harassment at work. On this occasion, we must pay tribute to the voluntarism and perseverance of all those without whom this convention would not have been possible. Above all, we must salute all the women who dared to speak out to denounce gender-based and sexual violence and have thus made this subject of society a central issue in France and in the world. We must also salute the international trade union movement, which is a pioneer in this fight, but also some large companies that have called for the exemplary and recognition of a "universal human right against violence at work". Finally, we must welcome all those countries which, like France, have fought in the negotiations to give the convention the highest possible level of ambition. In launching the ratification process, the Government is once again demonstrating our country's commitment to any form of violence, starting with violence against women. Violence and harassment are a subject that we do not understand when we talk about it on a global scale: on such a large scale, the data are lacking and, when they exist, they are difficult to compare from one country to another. But we know that this is a widespread, massive and colossal phenomenon. In France, 15 to 20 per cent of workers have already been subjected to violence and harassment at work, and one third of women have already been sexually assaulted or harassed at the workplace. Such violence and harassment, which the pandemic has worsened, have serious consequences: for the victims, of course, whose physical and mental health is damaged; for the working collective, because cohesion and motivation are weakened; for companies themselves, who may fear for their reputation, the motivation of their employees, their productivity, or their ability to recruit. To deal with violence at work, Convention No. 190 has two advantages. The first is his great ambition. First, it brings the first universal definition of violence and harassment at work. It calls for the protection of women from violence in the workplace, as well as the mitigation of the impact of domestic violence in the workplace. The Convention adopts a comprehensive approach by jointly considering prevention, training, protection, accompaniment, reparation and punishment. The fight against violence and harassment at work must be co-built with employers' and trade union organisations, through the existing law and collective agreements. For it is at all levels, to the closest to the company, to the closest to the workers, that the response to violence must be thought of. The second great asset of the convention – and this has not been easy – is its balance and how it takes into account national sensitivities and contexts. It would not have been enough to draw up a response that was up to date; It was still necessary for the largest number of States to be able to subscribe to it. We can say, Secretary of State, that the bet is held. Out of 187 countries, 30 abstained, only 7 voted against. Convention 190 is therefore one of the ILO's best adopted instruments. However, negotiations almost derailed more than once. However, compromise formulas have been found in every assemblage, notably in Recommendation No 206, which accompanies the Convention without having the normative force. Everyone therefore agrees on the value of this convention, but there is a ground on which consensus is less clear. This is the question of the consequences which we in France must draw from this ratification. Of course, everything is perfect, and we must make progress in the implementation of the existing law. But do we have to go further? Do we have to go so far as to change our rights? On this issue, there are two opposing ideas. For the Government, France already has some of the most advanced legislation in this area. It is therefore unnecessary to provide for additional measures in the immediate future. For trade unions and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), Convention No. 190, and its accompanying Recommendation No. 206, can inspire new developments in the law. I said it in committee: it's better to light a candle than curse the darkness. This is a debate that we will not decide here, between ourselves. As always, in order to move forward, the social partners must first talk to each other. And if employers' organizations are reluctant, it seems to me that the Government will have to frame and accompany the negotiations. Finally, I call for corporate social responsibility. Employers' organisations, companies, trade unions and citizens' associations can take the initiative and create a common dynamic. Together, these actors can help build a society free from violence and harassment at work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On this and many others, we must first give them our hands because they are the ones who make social democracy live in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u206	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u207	The International Labour Organisation Convention No 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work, a convention for ratification which, in its excellent report, my colleague Mustapha Laabid seems to me to define a principle, to propose a method, to call for an observation and to raise a problem. The principle: it establishes as a universal principle the right to evolve in a world of work free from violence and harassment. You stressed the importance of this, Mr Minister, the rapporteur: for the first time, an international agreement defines these concepts and imposes on the signatory states an obligation of means to make this right effective. The method: it calls for building this new right through collaboration between governments, representatives of employers and employees and social actors in general. The aim will be to define the modalities of implementation for the prevention of violations of the protection of persons, as well as for training and awareness-raising. Observation: France already has a body of legislation and regulations prohibiting and punishing violence and harassment. I note, moreover, that the Government considers that the implementation of Convention No. 190 does not require any legislative measures to amend the Labour Code. In fact, we almost have the feeling that this Convention provides, if I may say so, for all those who will sign and ratify our Labour Code to adhere to it. Our position, we must agree, is a little pioneering in this area, which we have every reason to welcome. However, measures are expected to be taken in the area of prevention and awareness-raising: even in our own country, this convention will not be useless, but its main effect is an effect that drives everyone to the point. Finally, the problem is that it is a European legal problem which is not entirely negligible, and I would like to get an answer to a question on which the Government's impact assessment remains a little silent. Even though some of the provisions of the Convention fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union, can we continue to the end of the ratification authorisation procedure without breaching the principle of fair cooperation, since we have not yet taken the decision of the Council of the European Union authorizing the Member States to ratify those provisions which fall within the exclusive competence of the Union? I think – Mr Secretary of State, I imagine you will agree with this interpretation – that we are quite right to anticipate the movement and, through the vote on this text, to allow you to deposit the instrument of ratification of the Convention, even if we know that you will not be able to do so immediately. Could you tell us within what time frame you believe that this process can be completed? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and SOC groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is a great international social act that we are asking you to vote, which I am sure you will do. I am pleased that we are making progress in this area and in the way we are doing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u208	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u209	In the general debate, Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u210	We are gathered to ratify a convention whose ambitious objective is to ensure that for every worker, every employee, every employee, the working environment is free from harassment and violence. This is the first time that an agreement has been reached in this area between the various Member States of the International Labour Organization. The questions relating to this phenomenon must be dealt with in detail and the ratification of ILO Convention No. 190 gives us the opportunity to do so: it is up to us not to miss it. The Libertés et Territoires Group would like to welcome the main thrust of this agreement: the adoption of a universal definition of violence and harassment in the world of work. While these conventions are usually limited to the lowest common denominator, in order to involve as many States as possible, this has not been the case: the definition adopted is particularly broad and includes, in particular, gender-based violence. This convention and the accompanying recommendations must allow us to go beyond mere awareness-raising and help to stop these offences. However, I note that, for the time being, only seven States have ratified this agreement, even though one in three countries has no legislation to prohibit sexual harassment at work. This situation is far from trivial and illustrates the legal vacuum in which 235 million workers worldwide are found. France, for its part, is already particularly invested in this field, both at international, European and national levels. It must make use of all its diplomatic weight. However, while we cannot satisfy ourselves with the current global situation, our own legislation is also perfectable. While the French legal framework was amended in 2018 to improve the prevention and punishment of sexual or moral harassment at work, violence persists. Directed by the CGT, Care France and ActionAid France, the impact study on the ratification of the Convention by France reveals that 30% of French employees have already been sexually harassed or assaulted in their workplace and 70% of victims have never told their employer. These figures are striking and shocking examples are not lacking. Let us remember that in 2014 an Airbus executive made employees walk on broken glass, then forced one of them, who had refused to do so, to explain the reasons. In addition, among the victims of harassment at work, we see an over-representation of the youngest – the 20-29 year olds –, people in precarious contracts and women. A few months ago, we voted at first reading on the bill to speed up economic and professional equality, but does not equality between women and men go first and foremost by promoting a framework of work free from violence? At the European Union level, the figures are also alarming: 75% of women in qualified employment or senior management positions have already been sexually harassed in their workplace, while 32% of all victims reported that the perpetrator was a superior, a colleague or a client. If our legal framework is meant to allow us to stop this phenomenon and to protect workers properly, the figures show another reality. Our right does not yet provide sufficient protection and a safe working environment for our workers, so we must not slow down our efforts. Thus, contrary to what the Government has put forward, we believe that ratification should not take place under constant law. It would be useful to adopt an even broader vision, including domestic violence, which inevitably has an impact on women's working lives. Companies also have a role to play in the detection of such violence and the adoption of new measures could contribute to their eventual elimination. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Mustapha Laabid, rapporteur, and Mr Pierre Dharréville also applaud]] We must seize the opportunity given to us by this Convention to strengthen our legal arsenal against all forms of violence and harassment. Our positive law is already a lot, but we can go even further. It is our group's conviction that it will vote for the ratification of this Convention as a first step towards the universal recognition of a certain form of dignity at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u211	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u212	It was necessary to have in our Chamber this debate on International Labour Organisation Convention No 190 on violence and harassment in the world of work. First of all, because it is worth commending the substantive work carried out by the ILO, the only international organisation – one hundred years – bringing together representatives of both employers and employees and States. Secondly, because the issue of violence and harassment in the workplace is crucial in today's world – the numbers are cold on the back. Let's take a look at women. In France, 30% of women were victims of violence and harassment at work. Of these, 70% say they never spoke to their employer. And for the reason: when they do, 40% believe that the situation has been resolved in disadvantage, through forced mobility or even dismissal. This situation must therefore be stopped, which has lasted for too long. That is why the Communist deputies welcome the fact that the National Assembly finally approves ILO Convention No. 190. Of course, we will vote on the bill. However, it is well known that the ratification of an ILO Convention is only symbolic if it is not followed by the transposition into national law of the associated recommendation, in this case Recommendation No. 206. Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we therefore urge you to table as soon as possible a text containing the following five measures, contained in this recommendation: the introduction of leave for victims of domestic violence; flexible working arrangements and protection for victims of domestic violence; establishing temporary protection for victims of domestic violence against dismissal; Taking into account domestic violence in the assessment of risks in the workplace; Awareness-raising on the effects of domestic violence. When considering the proposed law to protect victims of domestic violence, the amendments that the Communist deputies had tabled to that effect were declared inadmissible, while they were in line with the ILO recommendation, which shows that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u213	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u214	A reading of the criteria for inadmissibility of amendments was probably too extensive to prejudice these discussions. Of which act. Let us take these elements together in order to adopt them. In agreement with the trade union organisations, we proposed: to grant ten days of paid absence to victims of domestic violence in order to carry out the necessary judicial, medical and social steps; to grant notice to any employee who is the victim of violence who decides to resign and to assimilate this choice to an involuntary loss of employment qualifying for unemployment benefit in support of his return to employment; prohibit the dismissal of victims of domestic violence for six months; to include the inclusion of domestic violence in the risk assessment at the workplace; raise awareness of the link between domestic violence and employment; and provide victims with a right to geographical or functional mobility. We also propose to include the risk of violence and harassment in the corporate vigilance plan. In this way, in accordance with the law of our excellent colleague Dominique Potier on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and donor companies, French legislation would make it mandatory to prevent the risks of violence and harassment throughout the supply chain of French companies. If we want to be able to boast of being at the forefront in this field, let us push the effort to the end and do not pay for words. Communist MPs have always fought to ensure that employees are better protected. Thanks to the militant and trade union movements, no one can now pretend to ignore the scale of this tragedy. Let us therefore endeavour to adopt these proposals as soon as we have ratified this Convention. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – MM. Mustapha Laabid, rapporteur, and Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applaud]] Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Government whether it intends to propose to Parliament that it ratify ILO Convention No. 189 on domestic workers – domestic work which is undervalued, invisible and mainly carried out by women, many of whom belong to disadvantaged communities. Workers in this sector are particularly vulnerable to discrimination related to employment and working conditions and human rights violations. This subject is in line with Convention 190 and it is also time to make concrete progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u215	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u216	Of course, the La République en marche group supports any progress towards the protection of women's rights. I would therefore like to announce from the outset that we will vote in favour of the adoption of this convention against violence and harassment in the world of work. As previous speakers have pointed out, this is an innovative and historic convention, as it is the first international treaty to act in this field, thus enshrining "the right of everyone to a world of work free from violence and harassment, including violence and harassment based on gender". However, I would like to highlight all the remaining steps to be taken in order to really protect women in the world of work. The figures have already been given, but I remind them: 70% of victims of violence at work report that they have never spoken to their employer and 40% of women who have done so indicate that the situation has been resolved in their favour, that they have been forced to leave the company or that they have been dismissed. In total, 85 per cent of the victims of violence at work do not obtain anything as a result of the commission of the facts. [[Ms. Mireille Clapot applauds]] Allow me, my dear friends, to make a digression, even if it is not really one. When a woman says "no" to a man, it does not mean anything else. A "no" is not a "yes", a "no, but" or a "yes, but". A "no" means you don't want to receive text messages, e-mails, or unnecessary compliments from morning to evening. A "no" is not an invitation to be heavy and insistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u217	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u218	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq also applauds]] Saying "no" requires stopping. When a woman is smiling and friendly, it doesn't mean she invites you to something else: she just wants to have a friendly relationship with you. When a woman says "no", there is nothing else to understand. Harassment begins when a man does not understand that you told him "no". The figures I have mentioned are unacceptable in our country, my dear friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u219	Comrades!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u220	My dear comrades, too! While France wants to position itself as a world leader in gender equality, we must collectively go further to combat the first of the inequalities. I would like, if I may, to summarize the legislative work undertaken since 2017: law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, promoted by Marlène Schiappa; Proposal for a law of the President of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, Marie-Pierre Rixain, aimed at accelerating economic and professional equality, which includes strong lines on entrepreneurship, market access and economic governance; increase of 138 euros per month of support for childcare costs, which may seem little for some but is far from negligible, especially for single-parent families whose parent is very often a woman. There is certainly a long way to go to reach the standards that should be ours. The laws of Canada, New Zealand and, closer to us, Spain are particularly advanced in this area. The prohibition of dismissal of victims of domestic violence or the provision of medical, social and psychological care free of charge, in accordance with the recommendations of the excellent International Labour Organization, are essential provisions to go further. They are all the more so since successive confinements and the generalization of telework, due to the covid-19 pandemic, have been conducive to domestic violence. As the various NGOs and feminist associations point out, the world of work must be a refuge for women victims of violence. Ratification of this Convention is an essential step, but it is important not to stop going further in this fight. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I would like to thank once again the directors of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and our rapporteur, who has so clearly outlined the stakes and difficulties of this subject. The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you and wish you a very nice summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u221	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u222	While violence and harassment in the world of work are a massive and growing phenomenon, it has only recently become a matter of concern to international institutions. Let us realize that there was no universally accepted definition in international law of the notions of violence or harassment in the world of work prior to this Convention, while around 16% of workers reported that they were exposed to incivilities and violence at work in 2015, a figure of 30% among women. The proactive attitude of many actors to put this issue on the agenda, in particular that of the trade union organisations at the origin of the ILO negotiations on this Convention, should be welcomed. We also welcome the initiative of France during these negotiations. At the request of the Member States of the European Union, she was the spokesperson for the European Union and a member of the drafting committee for the conclusions. In particular, it has defended a compromise position throughout the work of this organization, which its tripartite structure makes so special. This demonstrates our country's unquestionable commitment to this issue. ILO Convention No. 190 is the first international standard on the issue of violence and harassment in the workplace. It lays down a principle, it defines a method based on the consultation of all stakeholders, it lays down obligations of means. In order to combat the phenomenon of violence and harassment in the world of work, the Convention promotes a comprehensive response, based in particular on training managers to support victims, prevention, protection and the guarantee of redress and redress. It also calls for greater vigilance towards workers who are most exposed to violence because of their membership of certain vulnerable groups, working conditions or sector of activity. It applies to all workers, whether they are employed in the private or public sector, trainees or volunteers. The text also requires States to adopt an inclusive, integrated and gender-sensitive approach in order to prevent and eliminate violence and harassment in the workplace. It also imposes an obligation of means. States will need to take measures to ensure redress and redress, and employers will also have a role to play in preventing violence and harassment. All these provisions are in the direction of accountability at all levels to combat violence and harassment at work. The European Union will have the task of issuing an opinion in favour or against the ratification of this Convention, but it is our duty to vote on this ratification bill. We have the opportunity to give a first application to the principles defended at the Equality Generation Forum a few weeks ago, and to continue to draw clear lines in the fight against all forms of violence. Since France has a normative framework recently reinforced by the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose its professional future, its legal and regulatory framework is in line with the requirements of the Convention, which naturally does not exclude the possibility of going further. Negotiations within the International Labour Organization resulted in a broad consensus, with more than two thirds of the votes cast approving the Convention and the recommendation, which is rare enough to be emphasized. We hope that the same consensus will be found in the vote of our Assembly. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will naturally contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u223	It's Mr. Alain David's talk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u224	As the rapporteur has pointed out and as we have said in committee, this ILO convention appears both ambitious and balanced. We must therefore welcome this first attempt at an international response to the old trade union demands in this area. I will not enter into the legal debate on the need for a European authorisation prior to our ratification, since I have no doubt that this Convention, which, as you said, is among the best adopted by the ILO, will soon be unanimous in the European Council and the Commission. However, I would like to go back to the complementary measures called for by some trade unions, NGOs and feminist associations, which want France to go further than the provisions of the Convention. In fact, the report rightly mentions the contributions of several of these actors, and I hope that a legislative vehicle will quickly integrate their requests and recommendations. I am thinking in particular of Recommendation No. 206 which accompanies the Convention: its incorporation into our law would be a real step forward. Unfortunately, we regret that the MEDEF has opposed its adoption. However, the many proposals contained therein would enable us to eradicate gender-based and sexual violence at work and create rights for victims of violence. To establish a zero tolerance policy for companies that do not yet have a prevention plan, to include the obligation for companies to include the risk of violence and harassment in their vigilance plans – which would not endanger the economic life of our country! – and adopting specific provisions to protect vulnerable groups would be measures that would give France a legislative framework of reference compared to that of other States. I take note of our rapporteur's request to the Government to orchestrate a future consultation between the social partners on the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applauds]] In any event, for the international normative first step represented by this Convention, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u225	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u226	We are gathered to take a decision on the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention No. 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the Workplace, of which we naturally wish it to be approved. Many international instruments, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, all of which recall the true scourges of violence and harassment in the workplace that have not yet been eradicated. The same applies to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) No. 4 for quality education, No. 5 for gender equality, No. 8 for decent work and economic growth, No. 10 for reducing inequalities and No. 16 for peace, justice and effective institutions. Therefore, we can only regret having to look at this text only now. According to data collected by the comprehensive survey "Violence and gender relations", conducted by the National Institute for Demographic Studies (INED), 20.1 per cent of women and 15.5 per cent of men are subjected to the brutality of the world of work each year through racist, sexist and homophobic statements, sexual assault, psychological pressure and harassment. How can we not recall that violence and harassment in the world of work can constitute a violation of human rights or a violation of those rights and that violence and harassment endanger equal opportunities? They are unacceptable, incompatible with decent work and must be collectively combated. The health crisis we are going through and its multiple confinements have aggravated the working lives of employees who are victims of internal harassment or violence. There are no longer cases of decreased job satisfaction, job disinvestment, isolation and deterioration of relationships with colleagues. The family and social sphere is not spared by isolation, social disinvestment and family conflicts. Marie-France Hirigoyen says, in life, there are stimulating encounters that encourage us to give the best of ourselves and there are some that undermine us and can eventually break us. It is our urgent responsibility to promote a general environment of zero tolerance for violence and harassment to facilitate the prevention of such behaviour and practices. Nevertheless, this fight is subject to a debate at European Union level, which is expected to culminate by the end of the year, on the need for prior European authorisation. Let us remember, however, that France was at the initiative of the ILO negotiations, which were welcomed by trade unions, non-governmental organizations and feminist associations. The Action Together group thus encourages social actors to meet regularly to make milestones and share best practices on the implementation of these international instruments, building on the upsurges. It also calls on the various stakeholders to frame and accompany a joint negotiation, as it is in terms of awareness-raising and training in the fight against violence and harassment at work that progress seems to be most important. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Rapporteur Mustapha Laabid also applauds]] "Life blooms through work" wrote Arthur Rimbaud in the poem Bad Blood, from the collection A season in hell well known to the chairman of the commission. To take up the poet, the group Agir ensemble will vote for this text, which aims to dispel the infernal dimension which the professional cadre may have in certain cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u227	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u228	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome the fact that France is ratifying Convention No 190 of the International Labour Organisation. We have been asking for it since last November; We welcome the ILO's consideration of violence and harassment at work and France's commitment to respect a necessary international convention. Nevertheless, I note some contradictions between this ratification and the policy pursued by the Republic that has been in progress since 2017. Article 4 of the Convention states that it is imperative for States to "ensure the existence of effective means of inspection and investigation for cases of violence and harassment, including through labour inspection [...]. However, it turns out that you have decided to abolish 15% of the positions in the Labour Inspectorate by 2022, according to the CGT, which has denounced this policy since 2018. The Court of Auditors itself regrets a 9 % decrease in overall staffing between 2014 and 2018 and a 6 % decrease in control staff since 2014. You persist in the wanderings of your predecessors. By what means do you intend to verify that France is in compliance with the Convention? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The Convention also deals with violence and sexual harassment at work that women often suffer, in addition to wage inequality. In spite of your beautiful announcements about the great cause of the quinquennium of equality between women and men, when it comes to responding to me and to our President Mathilde Panot, about the setting up of a trade union representative with reference to harassment within the CGT whose harm was to highlight acts of sexual harassment at the top of the RATP, your silence was eloquent. Article 1 of the Convention defines violence and harassment as "a set of unacceptable behaviours and practices... which are intended to cause, cause or are likely to cause physical, psychological, sexual or economic harm...". You will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that precarious working conditions are undeniably causing physical, psychological and economic damage. This violence must be combated. But you, Government, emphasize it! Conscientious destruction of the labour code, reversal of standards, incitement to precarisation by so-called performance agreements that allow renegotiation of working conditions without any lasting guarantee of employment... The list of your misdemeanours is too long to be exhaustive. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Under the guise of defending the general interest, the health crisis has allowed you to realize the dream of many capitalists: trampling on the labour code by making employees work up to sixty hours a week, while reducing their minimum rest time from eleven to nine hours – and we will not talk about the discussions we have had over the last forty-eight hours concerning the dismissal of people, whether they are vaccinated or not. While one third of French people suffer from stress at work, it is high time to take serious action against violence and harassment in this environment, and the ratification of the convention commits us to it. The group La France insoumée has constantly proposed effective measures that you have all swept away with a scorning back of your hand. In particular, we proposed the guarantee of employment by the employer state as a last resort and the simplified recognition of certain occupational accidents and diseases, including the burn-out, which was the subject of a bill in a niche of our group. Since gender-based violence at work is also of an economic nature, we also proposed that the index of professional equality between women and men should take into account part-time work. There, too, in vain. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] May the ratification of this convention finally make you change your method and allow you to hear the voices of the workers in arrears! We will vote against the text because these are our convictions, hoping that your vote will also make it yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u229	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u230	After these rich positions, I would like to add a few words in order to shed some light on the speakers who have questioned the Government. President Bourlanges is right: this is indeed a mixed agreement, the content of which is partly the responsibility of the European Union. We are here, with you, doing what is our responsibility and, once we have obtained the green light from the European Union, we will be 100% ready to deposit with the ILO the instruments of ratification of Convention No 190; I cannot give you the exact terms, but the Government collectively assumes the will of the State to pioneer in this area, and I believe that we can honour it. Mr Lecoq, whose speeches are always very specific, asked me about Convention No 189 on domestic workers: we are very much in favour of it, and I think you know that, because we have talked about it with several speakers. Before proposing ratification of the Convention, we wanted to carry out an investigation to verify how our law relates to its content. This is what we are doing now: you know that in our country, the law applicable to domestic workers is very much a matter of branch agreements, and it is a goldsmith's job to check how or not to adapt the provisions specific to our law. [[Ms Caroline Fiat exclaimed]] Finally, a few questions focused more broadly on how to implement the existing legal provisions. As you know, the labour inspectorate is trained and effective on these issues. You were concerned about this, Mrs Fiat, so I took up some elements of 2019: the labour inspectorate carried out 1225 interventions in the area of moral harassment and 1229 in the area of sexual harassment. It may be seized to carry out concrete actions where necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u231	When they work too well, you fire them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u232	I have also heard the call addressed to us concerning the role of the social partners. I recalled earlier that the Labour Code provides for sectoral bargaining obligations every four years in order to provide companies with specific measures to prevent and take action against sexual harassment and violence at work. Companies also have the opportunity to act in this area within the framework of a method agreement – this is an obligation to negotiate on QVT, the quality of life at work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I won't surprise you by saying that I don't think everything is in the law. There are SSCs – social and economic committees – and representatives of staff and occupational doctors, and I believe that it is the concrete action of all these actors on the ground that I mentioned in my opening remarks that will allow us to win together the fight against violence at work and harassment in all its forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u233	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u234	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u235	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u236	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of Measure 1 (2005) – Annex VI to the Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty on the Protection of the Environment, Liability Arising from Environmental Critical Situations (No. 4265, 4367).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u237	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u238	France hosted last month's forty-third Antarctic Treaty (ATA) Consultative Meeting. This international organization brings together 54 States, including 29 Consultative Parties, whose scientific activity in Antarctica justifies their participation in the annual editions of the RCTA. These meetings are responsible for the management and protection of the Antarctic continent. They were created by the Treaty of Washington, which was adopted in 1959 and, together with other instruments, constitutes the Antarctic Treaty system. This exceptional text prohibits any non-peaceful activity in Antarctica; it freezes land claims and proclaims freedom of scientific research. Signed on 4 October 1991 and entered into force on 14 January 1998, the Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty on the Protection of the Environment, known as the Madrid Protocol, complements the Washington Treaty and designates Antarctica as a "peace and science nature reserve". An important element of the Antarctic system, it also prohibits the exploitation of mineral resources. Six annexes adopted since 1991 have come to elaborate on the provisions of this Protocol. The draft Act, Annex VI, pursues the objectives of the Protocol for the Comprehensive Protection of the Antarctic Environment and Dependent and Associated Ecosystems by developing rules and procedures for liability for damage resulting from activities in the Antarctic Treaty area. The "operators" referred to in Annex VI are legal or natural persons, whether governmental or non-governmental, who organize scientific research programmes, tourism activities or any other activities, including logistical support, in the Antarctic Treaty area to be notified in advance under the Treaty. In the case of France, between ten and twenty non-governmental operators submit an application each year for an activity permit in Antarctica. These requests, which may concern the entire Antarctic continent, are addressed to the Prefect of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands (TAAF), designated as the national authority competent to take such measures. Non-governmental operators carry out tourist activities, using sailboats – they are not necessarily commercial – or cruise ships. Currently, a single cruise company, Ponant, operates under the authorization of the French competent authority. The Commission allocates four vessels each year to the Antarctic Treaty area, allowing 6673 passengers to travel to Antarctica during the 2019-2020 summer season, representing more than 10 per cent of the total number of passengers who visited the region during that period. This figure may seem small compared to the size of the continent, but it is growing very strongly and the vast majority of tourists visit only the Antarctic Peninsula, which is a continuation of South America. With regard to government operators, the Prefect of TAAF authorises 15 to 20 scientific research programmes each year supported by the French Polar Institute. Once in force, Annex VI will require all these operators to provide contingency plans to prevent their activities from causing significant damage to the environment. If such damage does occur, the responsible operator will have to take the necessary steps to ensure that they cease as soon as possible; To this end, specific guarantees will have to be entered into. If it does not act, it will be obliged to bear the costs incurred by the French State or a foreign State to put an end to the damage. France's interest in Antarctica since its exploration has led it to sign and ratify the Treaty as early as 1959. Subsequently, thanks to the action of Michel Rocard, it made a major contribution to the adoption of the Madrid Protocol of 4 October 1991, which aims to protect the Antarctic environment. Since France has already approved Annexes I to V to the Madrid Protocol, the approval of Annex VI will enable it to be a party to all international commitments concerning Antarctica. To date, of the 29 consultative parties to the Treaty, eleven States still have to approve Annex VI, which can only enter into force once all of them have done so. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are the main observations called for in Annex VI to the Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty on Environmental Protection, dealing with liability arising from environmental critical situations, which is the subject of the bill that is now being proposed for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u239	Mr Jacques Maire, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u240	It is really a pleasure for many of us to discuss this subject for a few tens of minutes, which is very little present in the political debate as it determines – we are increasingly observing it – a large part of our humanity. Antarctica is a completely separate case in international law. As you said, Minister Delegate: this continent is not within the competence of the United Nations, but it is governed by a very special treaty, that of Washington, which you mentioned and which was signed by all the great powers in the cold war. The Antarctic Treaty endorsed the freeze on land claims and consolidated the continent's management towards scientific research and environmental conservation. But today, appetites are sharpening to exploit its resources, including mineral resources and seafood, especially from Chinese and Russians. It is therefore essential to consolidate the Treaty because on the white continent there are no blue helmets. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] As you said about the environment, it was the Madrid Protocol signed in 1991 under the leadership of French Prime Ministers Michel Rocard and Australian Robert Hawke that made Antarctica a "international nature reserve". Michel Rocard continued this fight until his death in 2016, when he was still ambassador of the poles. I would like here, on behalf of the national representative, to pay tribute to his memory and action; If we are here to ratify such a text, it is thanks to the approach from which it is based. Why is the link between the environment and Antarctica so important? First, Antarctica itself is an ecosystem that needs to be protected as such. But another issue, linked to climate change, concerns us even more directly. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the total melting of the ice cap would eventually increase the sea level by 60 metres, which would mean the disappearance of the Netherlands and Denmark? This would also call into question French unity by making Brittany an island, which would not necessarily make all Bretons happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u241	Whatever!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u242	It's a Norman talking! In the shorter term, the current IPCC consensus – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – indicates that sea-level rise is not expected to exceed about 80 centimetres by 2100. But there is a huge unknown: the instability of the ice cap. According to the IPCC consensus, this could lead to an increase in sea level of up to 5.4 metres by 2100, depending on the highest assumptions. This additional 5.4 metres would cause hundreds of millions of humans to submerge. What is the reason for this difficulty in calculating? Current work shows that two phenomena could speed up the melting of ice: the release of ice from the ice pack risks first blowing up the Antarctic 'cap', which would lead the glaciers to melt in the sea; Then, rising sea temperature could take off the ice cap from its rock base. If the cap jumps, as is now seen in the Weddell Sea and Ross Sea, a warmer layer of water will enter the ice cap and melt it. It's a cumulative phenomenon. In addition, the kilometres of ice that cover the continent weigh such a weight that the surface of the ground is several hundred metres deep. If the cap moves forward, the soil will rise and eventually, a cumulative effect will speed up the spill. The risk, I said, is that the sea level will rise by 5 meters. Among these many uncertainties, ladies and gentlemen, I see an essential certainty: there is a need to increase research in Antarctica. We are investing billions of euros in the ecological transition, but only hundreds of thousands or even a few million for polar research. France has a great polar past, but its present is less brilliant. Our stations, Dumont-d'Urville and Concordia, are aging and out of standard. They do not manage their own waste and are unable to maintain it under normal conditions. The French Polar Institute Paul-Émile-Victor (IPEV) no longer manages to guarantee the sustainability of our device. I thank the chair of the Arctic, Antarctic, TAAF and deep-sea study group, Jimmy Pahun, as well as our colleague Jean-Charles Larsonneur, and all the fellow MPs and senators who are engaged in an emergency plan on our polar research. This is a vital issue for humanity. I now turn to the Madrid Protocol, adopted in 1991 together with five of its six annexes. There is still one sixth, the one that presents the most difficulties; The aim is to prevent damage and, where appropriate, to guarantee liability. As you said earlier, my minister delegate, Annex VI responds to the increase in tourism, a phenomenon which was well noted by the very interesting report by our colleagues Éric Girardin and Meyer Habib. Between 1995 and 2020, the number of tourists visiting Antarctica increased from 9,000 to 74,000, of which 20,000 land on the continent. Of course, this means that on a continent of the size of the United States, there are ten times fewer visitors than in Disneyland on a big weekend. But in fact, very few places are dockable and they are mostly around the Antarctic Peninsula. It is as if there were only about ten anchorages on the entire Breton coast – the places to stop should not be in front of a glacial front, and they must also be protected from waves and possible icebergs drifting. Moreover, if the anchorage is hospitable for humans, it is obviously so for animals. Thus, tourism focuses on a few very rare sites; Even if there are only about 50 cruise ships per year, there is a real risk of surfing if nothing is organized. Annex VI therefore requires operators to take proportionate measures, which are verified by the States – in France, the competent national authorities are TAAFs. Its effectiveness is real in terms of prevention, but it is more uncertain in the event of pollution. For example, if the crew of a ship can quite manage a small fuel leak, a large leak due to the grounding of a small cargo ship coming to supply oil to scientific stations would be a real problem – Earth Adélie is 5000 kilometers from the nearest logistical support. With this in mind, I call for greater cooperation between France and Australia: the idea of a common icebreaker, allowing the pooling of resources, has been put forward. Only together will we be able to meet the specific challenges of such an environment. Secondly, in the event of damage, Annex VI requires operators to act, otherwise – this is the only case where their financial liability is incurred – they will have to bear the costs incurred by the States mobilised in their place. But it will not be applicable for several years, as the minister said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u243	However, we have reason to hope that its implementation has already been largely anticipated by the tourism industry, including the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO). This association is an example of a rather efficient private regulation, which accelerated during the crisis of the covid -19 the application of the decisions it had taken: the size of the ships is limited to 200 passengers; their presence in sensitive sites is limited; velocities are limited to 10 knots in coastal waters to preserve wildlife, including cetaceans; landings are limited to 100 people and strictly supervised in marked areas. Last year the IAATO also set up a real-time vessel tracking system, which allows for monitoring of practices but also for immediate location in the event of an accident. Does this prevent damage to the environment? For now, yes. There is no impact of visits on the stress of penguins, measured by their temperature. During the health crisis, however, the movement of the highways they construct between their nesting zone and the shores where they fish was observed. Penguins thus know how to divert their routes according to the frequency of tourists, which is not so bad. Finally, Annex VI requires operators to take out insurance or to have a financial guarantee. This subject is treated correctly by private amateurs, but much less by the French Polar Institute Paul-Émile-Victor who did not provide for a level of coverage and insurance corresponding to the potential damage. The IPEV will therefore have to invest to equip itself with a belt of recovery buoys in case of oil leaks on board – which is not too expensive – and double-walled fuel tanks with warning system. All this has not been budgeted. Beyond that, warming makes Antarctica more accessible by plane, which poses an additional risk: tourists who want shorter stays with helicopter overflights that greatly disturb wildlife. Precursor sign: scientists themselves no longer want to spend months in long expeditions followed by long stays. As a result of their demand for short stays, the number of aircraft rotations on the continent is exploding. Finally, Annex VI only provides for limited environmental liability linked to measures to eliminate environmental damage, but does not create a general liability regime requiring the operator responsible for the loss to compensate for the damage suffered. This regime remains to be negotiated, which was planned in 2015 but was not achieved due to the pandemic. We really need to speed up the movement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups – Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applauds]] In conclusion, I invite you to vote fully in favour of this bill: this is an opportunity for our country to strengthen the Antarctic Treaty and protect its environment a few weeks after the last meeting in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u244	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u245	It's very fascinating that we were discussing Antarctica. Did Jacques Maire not tell us at the moment that this subject seemed marginal, exceptional in the eyes of many – exceptional more than marginal, moreover – and that it was treated only in a subsidiary way, without taking it with arms-the-body? The rapporteur is right, and he has just given an exceptional quality of work on this issue, which we call in committee a virtuoso of pole law and reflection on these areas. As the rapporteur has said, this central subject is in many ways a mirror of our concerns and expectations. Why would he be the mirror of our hopes? It is an exceptional legal construction in which there is a willingness to jointly manage a space still relatively preserved, in order to save it various degradations and destructions which, in reality, threaten our planet in depth. Poles – notably Antarctica – are the microcosm of our planet. Looking at what is happening here is to take stock of current and future developments in the rest of the planet, of our attempts to deal with them, and of the failures that we fear. Let's be aware of that. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I have the honour to chair, is very involved and active in this area. My predecessor, Marielle de Sarnez, was already on this line and concerned about the poles. Our colleagues Eric Girardin and Meyer Habib have made an interesting report on this issue, we follow Mr. Jimmy Pahun's observatory and we have established relations with the ambassador of the poles, Mr. Poivre d'Arvor. This very important matter concerns us first and foremost. We therefore recommend the ratification of measure 1 of Annex VI to this Protocol. We are, however, experiencing frustrations which the rapporteur has echoed, particularly with regard to deadlines. This case has been under way for 16 years and it has not yet been resolved: we are still waiting for the ratification of eleven countries. It is not normal even if the deadlines are partly due to technical reasons, because it takes time and patience to unravel this complex legal tangle that combines private international law, public law and domestic law. The second source of frustration comes from the very precise nature of the problem, an anomaly if not a pinhead: the responsibility arising from situations critical to the environment. Nevertheless, we are making progress as we are in Annex VI. Annex I dealt with the environmental impact assessment, Annex II for the conservation of Antarctic fauna and flora, Annex III for the assessment and management of waste, Annex IV for the prevention of marine pollution. Two other annexes were subsequently adopted: one on the protection and management of areas and the other on which we are discussing today. We are therefore gradually moving forward on this important subject. However, I will conclude with an alarm cry: the spirit of cooperation diminishes because of the attitude of two powers, not the least. If they don't really backtrack, Russia and China are dragging their feet and resuscitating collective constraints such as the creation of protected maritime areas. That's what's at stake. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, SOC and GDR groups – rapporteur Jacques Maire also applauds]] We are going to vote in favour of this ratification, the rapporteur is right to invite us to do so, and the committee I chair will continue to take a full interest in the issue of poles. But we are making an alarm call: it is absolutely necessary to revive the dynamics. We have to win the game on this microcosm if we want to hope to win the game on saving the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u246	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u247	Measure 1 of Annex VI to this Protocol will introduce a concept of collective solidarity in the event of an accident degrading the local environment. Thanks to this, Antarctica really becomes a common good that everyone is responsible for protecting. This territory faces an increasing number of private and non-scientific activities that need to be better regulated. In this respect, this annex is a factor of progress since it allows for the taking of implementing measures with regard to private operators and the establishment of a principle of environmental responsibility for all actors in the Antarctic zone. We welcome the fact that this annex will create contingency plans to prevent and anticipate environmental damage in Antarctica. Finally, the accident liability and compensation regime will create conditions for better safety in Antarctica. Since there are only good measures, one wonders why the executive has waited 16 years to propose the ratification of this text. President Bourlanges has just responded, setting out some technical and diplomatic considerations. In any event, French diplomacy must not be content with these advances, as they are only a first step towards a much more ambitious work for this continent. The first project, to which the Communist Members took their part in asking to debate this text today in the Chamber, is to make this continent and its stakes better known to the French. The second, more concrete task is to extend the liability regime for environmental risks attributable to certain activities under this Annex. This regime remains too limited. He said nothing about the modalities for emergency response in the event of a crisis. He said too little about the concept of repair, which took into account only the cost that should have been incurred to limit the impact and not the actual cost to the environment. He says nothing about the coverage of land-based activities. However, given the increasing number of activities and actors in the Antarctic region, it is necessary to anticipate future challenges in order to limit their potential environmental impacts. The third project concerns the control of the exponential increase in tourism. When a large percentage increase is allocated to a small amount, the final number is small. This is the trend that must be looked at, as Jacques Maire invites us to do. The concentration of visits to the Antarctic peninsula is already a problem, as 95 per cent of visitors land in a few places, which weakens them. Shouldn't tourism and leisure activities be limited in a comprehensive manner on this continent? The question arises. Could France not internationalize its notion of the Sanctuary of Antarctica, thus excluding any activity other than scientific research or establishing strict tourist quotas? The reflection on the establishment of marine protected areas off this continent also seems to us to be moving in the right direction, which we encourage you to follow. This leads us to the fourth project: the role of France in this space. France must first significantly increase the budgets allocated to polar research. Let us listen to the alert issued by our ambassador for the poles, Mr Poivre d'Arvor, and to the recommendations of our colleagues Girardin and Meyer Habib's report. She must then join our army. It must change profoundly, not be used to protect France's economic interests alone. If our country wants to be a champion of the protection of the planet, it must use its army to protect our territories, first and foremost our maritime territory, which, I recall, is the second largest in the world. Thanks to its projection capacity, the French army has a means to limit the damage to the environment of our maritime areas in the event of pollution or illegal fishing. It is a mission that must be strengthened, a fortiori in Antarctic space. For example, the Communist MEPs propose that part of the army budget – for example, the one I often refer to on the modernization of nuclear weapons, which costs us EUR 14.5 million a day – be allocated to strengthening the surveillance capacity of these maritime territories. To increase the awareness of this continent and its stakes among the general public; create a strong regime of responsibility to protect it; strictly control tourism; strengthening the polar research budget; strengthening the mission to combat environmental crimes are all projects that will have a concrete impact on Antarctica, but also, as you have all said, on our planet and on our future. The Communist Members will therefore vote for a measure which, we hope, will make it possible to start this work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and FI groups as well on the benches of the commissions]] We thank Jacques Maire for his excellent report and the directors who accompanied him. This work shows the National Assembly's ability to deepen the issues and ensure that the French people are associated with Antarctica and that it is its defender.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u248	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u249	Allow me to greet Aude Amadou who was prevented. Have you ever thought about what would happen in the event of an oil spill on the white continent? It is unlikely that an oil leak will reach the Antarctic continent, as this 14.2 million square kilometres, or 1.3 times Europe, is already highly protected, but risk control is precisely the assessment of unlikely events. Although commercial vessels cannot approach the uninhabited shores of Antarctica, some ships may be wet in the vicinity, and an accidental escape is not to be excluded. But our poles are natural ecosystems with global stakes: they regulate the temperature, they are hotbeds of biodiversity, and key elements of controlling the rise of water. The poles focus on absolutely major issues at the global and national levels; I am pleased that Parliament is taking this step by examining this text. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Jacques Maire on his excellent report. The purpose is to authorize the approval of Measure 1 of annex VI to the Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty, a treaty signed more than sixty years ago. This measure constitutes a pillar of the protection of the Antarctic continent concerning the environmental aspect and the liability regime of the actors. Such protection is all the more essential as Antarctica becomes increasingly attractive, for example for tourists, and is exposed to increasing environmental damage. The treaty aims to make Antarctica a place of peace and science, that is, a place reserved for the evolution of scientific knowledge that would never become the scene of military or geopolitical rivalries. Article IV of the Treaty thus freezes any possible claim of national sovereignty over an Antarctic territory by another country. Following the Treaty, the Madrid Protocol, signed in 1991, stressed the environmental protection of Antarctica. It provides a demanding and comprehensive framework to ensure that the activities of Antarctic actors do not deteriorate the environment. Air quality, climate change, mineral extraction, water quality, biodiversity: this protocol addresses the many environmental issues in a broader approach. Annexes have been added to supplement the Protocol, including annex VI on liability arising from environmental critical situations, which contains Measure 1, the subject of our discussions. The aim is to urge signatory countries to take on their responsibilities, in particular by requiring States parties to require their public operators and private operators to take preventive measures, emergency measures and insurance measures. In terms of prevention, the operator must anticipate the risks of harm to the environment as part of its activities in Antarctica. It will be up to France to check whether these guarantees are sufficient and convincing. Emergency measures are also planned: an operational response must be possible in the event of environmental damage. As far as insurance is concerned, operators have an obligation to ensure that repair costs are met. These devices appear to be common sense requirements: the polluter must pay for his damage to the environment, and it is up to the public authorities to ensure that the environment in Antarctica, which is a common good of humanity, is protected. [[Smile]] The French, especially the younger generations, have repeatedly expressed their desire to see the state act for the environment and the climate. They tell us, and not only on Fridays, that the future of future generations is at stake. The melting of ice, especially of the poles, is directly responsible for the rise of the waters that threaten our coasts, our island territories and their inhabitants. Climate change, which accelerates the pace of natural disasters and species extinction, is intensifying as poles melt as ice releases CO, which is one of the causes of the greenhouse effect. Antarctica must therefore be protected through a stable and effective legal framework, it is the meaning of the text that is before us. Climate and the environment are at the heart of our concerns. They are also a strong commitment of the President of the Republic, and the protection of Antarctica is a must. This continent must remain an area of peace and science. It seems necessary for France to have the courage to assume its responsibilities with this text, especially since Paris hosted the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, as the delegate minister, Franck Riester, recalled. Let me also draw your attention to research issues, global warming, marine animals and astronomy. France was in advance thanks to the existence of the French Polar Institute Paul-Émile-Victor; It is now at risk of falling behind due to lack of means and long-term vision. For example, the equipment at the Dumont-d'Urville base is aging, whether it is the means of movement in extreme conditions or the enclosures attached to the penguins – I believe that in Antarctica there are penguins rather than penguins... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] Finally, the feminist I am cannot finish her speech without paying tribute to Laurence de la Ferriere, the first woman to have reached the South Pole alone and to have crossed it in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, on his behalf and on behalf of all those who are passionate about this white continent, I invite you to vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u250	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u251	The French presence in Antarctica is very important. It provides among the best researchers in the area thanks to the Paul-Émile-Victor Institute, of which we have already talked a lot, and it is one of the seven states possessed of the continent, possessions that were frozen by the 1959 Treaty, repeatedly mentioned. The Antarctic Treaty came into being in the midst of the cold war.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u252	You will regret it, the Cold War: that's where there were the most beautiful treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u253	As a member of the National Chamber of Mediation Practitioners, I like the phrase that Marielle de Sarnez often repeated. She said that it was always necessary to "win peace". In mediation, the first step is to find common interests that are not the subject of conflict, and bring each other to the table. Today, as you pointed out, Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, some countries are leaving the table. This is a real challenge. The environment can make it possible to resume negotiations, avoid and prevent conflicts. Thanks to the information report that Alain David and I had written on climate change and conflict, we discovered that climate change could have an impact on peace-building. For example, during the war between India and Pakistan, the water contract was never called into question. The obligation to protect an ice-covered continent of 98 per cent goes without saying, its degradation would be both a major threat to humanity and to its natural heritage. The overall figures have already been recalled to you, but let us insist on a more probable and realistic scenario: the melting of the only fringe of the pack ice on the west side of the Antarctic peninsula would increase the water level by 9 meters. The Annex VI referred to today has taken more time to see the light of day because it is a starting point for a principle of environmental responsibility, as our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq pointed out. This is therefore a first step which commits more and therefore causes more hesitation. This annex develops rules of procedure for liability for damage resulting from activities taking place in the Antarctic Treaty area. It includes obligations not only for States parties but also for private operators. As the chairman of the committee pointed out, this is the difficulty inherent in this type of treaty, which concerns bodies with different modes of regulation and different rights, which is a problem. Any operator, whether private or state, operating in Antarctica must reduce the risk of environmental damage generated by its activity, but Annex VI is only a first step towards wider recognition, in the same treaty, of the environmental responsibility of state and private bodies. That is why this annex is extremely innovative. At the moment, this liability is in fact very limited, since only the costs that operators should have incurred to limit the environmental impact, not the clean environmental cost. To date, eleven parties to the Treaty have yet to ratify Annex VI, and some have not yet begun this process, including major powers such as the United States, China, Japan and India. This is not good news, but it is our duty to send a positive signal to try to revive the momentum of cooperation and overall environmental accountability. In order to give us the means of our ambitions, the budget allocated to the Paul-Émile-Victor Institute, which remains a leader in climate research and innovation in the polar regions, needs to be strengthened as part of the upcoming finance bill. Let me make it clear that there is a second organization in my constituency dedicated to the Arctic. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups as well as on the benches of the commissions]] The international community was able to establish one of the most ambitious and protective environmental governances under the Antarctic Treaty at an early stage. The climate emergency must now be the sole motivation of the states in the area. The approval of this measure seems to us to be an encouraging but not sufficient step towards preserving our environment. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u254	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u255	"The Antarctic has this power to attract inaccessible things that call upon man to engage with passion," declared Jean-Louis Étienne! The polar regions exercise over us as a "quiet attraction", "a nun imprinted" to use Charcot's words. But unfortunately they are no longer as "inaccessible" as they were in the past centuries! It is therefore with passion that we welcome the approval of annex VI, which provides an opportunity for our country to fulfil its international commitments to the Antarctic Treaty system, and to work with a large part of the international community to strengthen environmental protection in the southern zone. The approval of annex VI is, in addition to the normative scope of this text, a powerful symbolic gesture demonstrating our country's commitment to the preservation of Antarctica, only a few weeks after the last Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting in June. Beyond its geographical location, Antarctica plays a central role in the global climate system and is an essential source for studying the impacts of certain global threats such as climate change. It is therefore up to us to understand Antarctica and ultimately to preserve it. Moreover, as a great polar nation, a status that we owe to the explorers and scientists who tried the adventure of Antarctica, Jules Dumont d'Urville who discovered the land Adélie in 1840 to Paul-Émile Victor, who created the French polar expeditions after the war, including the projects of Jean-Louis Étienne such as the Polar Pod and those of the Tara Ocean Foundation, it is incumbent on France to strengthen its scientific ambitions on the white continent. Indeed, Antarctica and the Southern Ocean are among the most valuable, but also the most vulnerable, wild areas on Earth. The marine environment concentrates a rich plant and animal life, where it is possible to cross penguins, sea lions, sea elephants, whales, albatrosses and petrels. Despite extreme weather conditions and their remoteness, Antarctica and the Southern Ocean are a source of life for some of the most extraordinary organisms in the world, including impressive specimens of megafauna. A fundamental species, the krill, supports the entire ecosystem of the region, as it feeds large whales in the southern hemisphere as well as phocidae, penguins and seabirds. But Antarctica has become the flagship tourist destination: it has the wind in its stern. Cruisers surf the polar wave and build more and more dedicated boats. The number of tourists saw an annual increase of 10% before the health crisis and reached 56,168 during the 2018-2019 season, just between November and February. This activity causes considerable disturbance, linked to trampling and pollution. There is a race forward towards a tourism giantism, dangerous for ecosystems – tourism can even be considered, in some respects, as invasive. In this respect, the Antarctic Treaty, signed in 1959 and reinforced by the Madrid Protocol of 1991 through a joint initiative of the then Prime Minister, Michel Rocard, and his Australian counterpart, must be strengthened more than ever. Antarctica must remain a natural reserve dedicated to peace and science, where mineral resource extraction is prohibited, at least until 2048, and where any activity must be subject to an environmental impact assessment. Finally, and as a corollary, we hope that the means of French scientific research will be strengthened, notably through the French Polar Institute Paul-Émile Victor, whose device is currently at a turning point. [[Applause on the panels of the commissions and on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the high-quality work that our colleague Jacques Maire, who has been steadfast in his commitments, has been carrying out for a very long time. Thus, the Action Together Group will vote in favour of the draft law authorizing the approval of measure 1 Annex VI to the Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u256	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u257	Consideration of this text is an opportunity to revisit the history of the protection of the Antarctic continent: after the 1959 Washington Treaty, which had frozen land claims south of the 60th parallel, the 1991 Madrid Protocol had made Antarctica a natural reserve dedicated to peace and science. As we pointed out in committee, the examination of this bill is also an opportunity to see that France's investments are too small to continue to claim a genuine diplomatic influence in the Antarctic zone. Indeed, its budget of EUR 18 million dedicated to the study of poles is well below the EUR 45 million invested annually by South Korea and Australia – to name but a few – or the EUR 53 million allocated by Germany to its structures on the spot. However, there is a need for means to ensure the protection of these fragile spaces. This has been mentioned: tourism, for example, can inflict considerable damage. An irreversible damage is neither quantifiable nor insurable: it is, in this area, definitive. Is it not urgent to invest in order to control and regulate any activity that could cause irreversible damage, for the pole, but also for our planet? [[Applause on the panels of the commissions and on the benches of the LaREM and Dem and LT groups]] Notwithstanding these concerns, as the rapporteur pointed out, the approval of Annex VI, beyond its normative scope, would be a strong symbolic gesture, demonstrating France's commitment to the preservation of Antarctica. The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u258	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u259	It is very rare for us to have the opportunity to talk about the poles in the Chamber, even though there are many threats to these areas related to climate change. Thank you for giving us the opportunity. In Antarctica, the heat record was reached last year, on February 6, 2020, with a temperature of 18.3 degrees. The melting speed of glaciers has doubled since the year 2000, causing the average loss of 267 gigatons of ice per year, and raising sea levels. Scientists warn us: if the melting of glaciers accelerates and the supply of fresh water prevents the formation of deep waters, we will face climate change points with still uncertain consequences. In this area, cruise tourism is increasing: while 56000 tourists had travelled to Antarctica in 2018-2019, there were about 74000 in 2019-2020, even though the region's ecological balance is increasingly fragile. As for the Arctic, it warms three times as fast as the rest of the planet, in a polar region where temperatures were close to 35 degrees in early June. The melting of permafrosts is accelerating in Canada or Siberia, leading to the risk of collapse of constructions and the release of carbon and methane stored in these soils. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The annex we are looking at is of course not sufficient to guarantee the protection of the environment in the Antarctic zone, in view of the climate emergency: this would require containing the ambitions of exploiting mineral resources or of intensive fishing, which could be strengthened as glaciers melt. The La France insoumée group will, however, vote in its favour, as it is moving in the right direction. On the other hand, I would like to take advantage of my speech to highlight a double speech. Remember: on the occasion of the UN General Assembly on 24 September 2019, Emmanuel Macron said: "The great countries of this world must stop financing new polluting installations [...]. Today we continue to have export financing and projects [...] that open up new polluting structures. ... It's inconsistent, it's irresponsible. Let's be lucid with ourselves. » What a coincidence! Despite the President's words, it was learned earlier this year that the Government was planning to support a mega-Arctic gas project – one of the most fragile regions in the world, I repeat – called Arctic LNG 2, in which the Total Group participates to the tune of 20%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u260	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u261	This huge project would be to build three natural gas liquefaction plants in northern Russia to produce 20 million tonnes of gas per year. Once extracted into frozen soils, the gas would be cooled on site and transported across the North Road. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] The Government was to render its arbitration on the granting of a guarantee for export by BPIFrance in May, and then at the end of June, before you decreed that it was necessary to wait for the impact assessment of the project to take a decision. The ecological associations mobilized and submitted to Minister Bruno Le Maire a petition bringing together 200,000 signatures, to refuse the financing of this project by the public funds. They denounce a lack of transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] What about the Government's arbitration on this case? What decision do you intend to make? While everyone knows the major role of poles in climate regulation, such a project would be an ecological aberration. As the President himself would say, that would be inconsistent and irresponsible. Therefore, I invite him – and the Government with him – to be, in turn, lucid with himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u262	With regard to the single clause of the bill, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u263	Sixty years ago, Antarctica became the first continent to belong to no one and not to the sovereignty of any State. Thirty years later, a new step was taken, with the Madrid Protocol, which brought this territory into the world heritage of humanity, in order to preserve its exceptional biodiversity. At the time, the signatory countries were concerned about the potential consequences of human activities on this continent. They cautiously wished to restrict them to tourism, which was still in its infancy, and to scientific research. These legitimate concerns are even more so today: if the impact of tourism remains very limited, it will no longer be the prerogative of a few privileged people when port or air infrastructure is developed and access costs will decrease. At the very least, we have a duty: to create mechanisms to preserve ecosystems when they are at risk of being affected by human activity. Annex VI today under discussion follows this logic: it provides that any private or state operator operating in Antarctica must reduce the risk of damage to the environment created by its activity. I would have liked it to go further: is it not urgent to limit, or even prevent, any activity that could cause irreversible damage? The annex remains insufficient as regards the compensation measures to which polluters would be obliged in case of damage to the environment – can we really talk about compensation, when an ecological disaster causes irreversible damage? In any event, while I regret that this crucial issue is being referred back to future work, which will not be completed for several years, I very much agree that the ratification of the annex to the protocol is a first step and a step forward. However, it is modest in view of the climate challenges facing the polar regions, which require us to act far beyond simply ratifying international agreements. In particular, Antarctica is at the forefront of the growing threat of climate change. The marine ecosystem, first of all, is threatened by the disappearance of krill, a species indispensable to the Antarctic food chain. The basis of feeding many species is the victim of intensive fishing. But in the long term, the greatest threat to the region is undoubtedly global warming. It already causes the melting of ice and the contraction of glaciers. On this continent, the disappearance of ice is synonymous with the disappearance of nesting and feeding sites for many species. All over the world, the weakening of ice barriers could lead to a dangerous rise in sea level. The challenge is high, as rising seas will result in more flooding, costly revisions of coastal infrastructure and large population displacements. Another major threat is that of crossing a breaking point in global warming, which would lead to chain writing and a succession of serious climate events. The melting of polar caps could, according to some scientists, release methane and CO trapped in permafrost and thus deliver the equivalent of about 15 years of human greenhouse gas emissions. Antarctica is no longer just a remote witness to global warming: it is also becoming a major player in climate change. His fate should be of interest not only to some lovers of the great cold, but to us collectively, because – as has already been said – everything that affects Antarctica affects the world, and vice versa. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this text, which represents a first step towards greater protection of Antarctica.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u264	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u265	In one word, I welcome the unanimity expressed by all the groups that have spoken on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u266	The whole right is missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u267	It shows how determined France as a whole is to protect the environment, combat global warming and preserve biodiversity. This is in any case the fight of the President of the Republic and the Government. This struggle goes, as Jacques Maire – whose work I welcome, as I greet President Bourlanges and all the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – through the protection of Antarctica. In reply to Mrs Panot, I confirm that the State has not granted an export guarantee for the Arctic LNG 2 project. You know that, since you have emphasized it yourself. The Government is aware of the importance of combating global warming, which means that projects in the hydrocarbon sector should not be encouraged. [[Applause on all benches]] And that is why the Government has taken the decision to stop the guarantees given for the export financing of hydrocarbon projects by 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u268	Mr President, I ask for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u269	In this case, the general debate is an explanation of vote, our Rules of Procedure only provide for them in limited cases, but as we are on the eve of the holidays, I will give you the opportunity, even if other colleagues could then also benefit from it. In explanation of vote, I call on Mrs Liliana Tanguy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. The Antarctic Treaty Protocol enshrines Antarctica as a natural reserve dedicated to peace and science, this was recalled; it thus introduces a specific environmental protection regime, prohibiting in particular the exploitation of mineral resources in the Treaty area and subjecting to prior authorisation activities likely to affect the environment of the region. In view of the increase in human activities in a particularly fragile region, mechanisms must be put in place to reconcile human activities with the preservation of ecosystems. Annex VI partially addresses this imperative by strengthening environmental protection in Antarctica. The adoption of this draft law approving the said annex therefore provides an opportunity for our country to fulfil its international commitments to the Antarctic Treaty system and thus to work towards strengthening the protection of the environment in the southern zone. This strong symbolic gesture demonstrates the commitment of France and our President to the preservation of Antarctica. As an auditor of the Institute of Advanced National Defence Studies of the last national session as part of the study "Maritime issues and strategy", I am convinced that ensuring the Sanctuary of Antarctica is imperative to preserve this space that warms up three times faster than the rest of the world. Olivier Poivre d'Arvor, our ambassador of the Poles, recalled, at the last Consultative Meeting on the Antarctic Treaty, that we should also fight for the classification of areas around Antarctica as a marine protected area in order to conserve the marine fauna and flora threatened by the fishing desires of Russians and Chinese. I would add that our excellent rapporteur Jacques Maire stressed that we were several Members, around our colleague Jimmy Pahun, supporting a significant increase in the budget dedicated to our scientific station in Antarctica. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I call for the implementation of an ambitious national polar strategy in a European cooperation approach. Instead of planting national flags, we must plant European flags! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Jacques Maire, rapporteur, and Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applaud]] For all these reasons, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote unreservedly in favour of approving this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u271	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u272	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 28 Number of votes cast 28 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 28 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u273	The President of the National Assembly has received a letter from the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament informing him that the reading of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee or the new reading of the draft law on the management of the health crisis, originally scheduled for tomorrow, is registered Sunday 25 July, at 9 a.m. and 15 a.m. It goes without saying that in view of the uncertainties surrounding the continuation of the shuttle, Members will be kept informed of any further clarifications or changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-23-E1019.u274	Next sitting, Sunday, 25 July, at 9 a.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on the management of the health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
