ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the protection of children (No 4264, 4307).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u2	Mrs Michèle Peyron, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u3	Once it is not customary, I will focus not on the whole bill, but on the sections that I have the honour to be the rapporteur. Unsurprisingly, I will begin by referring to maternal and child protection – PMI – for which I wanted to make a stand-alone title in this bill. Two years ago, Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families, I was giving the Government a report which I wanted to sound as a sound of alarm at the gradual extinction of PMI services. Since then, the Government has taken up this problem by increasing the funding of these services by EUR 100 million in three years. In particular, he identified the need to reaffirm in the bill the priority of PMI services in terms of early prevention, support for families around birth and support for parenting. I sincerely thank him for that. In addition to the new title that we have attached to the bill, committee work has helped to anchor a number of advances, which correspond to the reality of IMP services. For example, we have renamed family planning and education centres into sexual and reproductive health centres, a reformulation that removes a sometimes infantilizing connotation to better reflect what these centres are, whose commission has also allowed them to be run by midwives. In a comprehensive approach to prevention, we have also worked to strengthen the multidisciplinarity of the work of medical, paramedical, social and psychological personnel working in these services. Finally, we have removed – I know that some colleagues have questioned and tabled amendments on this point – prenuptial examination missions, which are of no relevance to the IMP services since their action focuses on accompanying families around the birth and reception of the child. Does that mean that we give up the missions of IMP services in support of parenting? No, and I will propose an amendment to that effect, aimed instead at stepping up the actions of these services in favour of parents, especially the most deprived, in accordance with the principle of proportionate universality which must guide our policy of prevention. We will also have the opportunity – I will defend another amendment in this direction – to clarify that the proposed shift of the IMP from a logic of static and obsolete standards to the fulfilment of public health objectives cannot be achieved without giving the services concerned the means to meet these objectives. The other major issue I will address is child protection governance. Decentralised competence to remain so, child protection is marked by the involvement of a large number of public interest bodies and groups (GIPs). The existence of a common interlocutor – the departmental council – and the current encroachments between their different fields of competence perfectly justify their consolidation under the aegis of a single public interest group. For the authorities responsible for the prevention and reporting of children at risk, adoption, access to personal origins or reflection in the field of child protection, this is not a pooling to save better on their backs, but a meaningful meeting, which will make it possible to better respond to the interlocutors of the group, be they child protection professionals, protected children or departments. This grouping will be financed equally by the State and the departments, in accordance with history – almost forty years ago, it is indeed the departments that have been entrusted with the competence of child protection. The Commission has also improved the text by integrating into this structure a children's college, which is of course the first to be involved, but also by putting in place a strengthened territorial governance around the departmental observatory for child protection – ODPE – also under the auspices of the departmental council. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has allowed its text to be enriched as a result of the parliamentary debate, in a spirit shared by all: prevention for all families and the protection of all children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u4	Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u5	I would like to say in the preamble how pleased I am that national representation is gathered to discuss a bill that is so essential and long-awaited on the protection of children. As Marguerite Duras so rightly wrote, in us, "there is always something left of childhood, always...". Yes, childhood is something we all share. However, we do not all have the same chances in the face of this crucial period of our existence, which is so crucial for the construction of our adult lives. Therefore, as legislators, it is our duty to act to redress and remedy the inequalities of destiny, those suffered by thousands of children placed in homes and foster families. Our mobilization on this major subject must be collective. In this regard, I would like to commend the quality of the work carried out by many colleagues and by our two rapporteurs, Mrs Peyron and Mrs Pételle. Last week, the Committee on Social Affairs met for more than 15 hours, in your presence, Mr Secretary of State, to discuss the 348 amendments under discussion, 62 of which were adopted. Many hours of exchanges and debates in a serene climate – I would like to stress this – have enriched this text. Yes, the bill we are considering is also the result of the parliamentary work that has been going on for many months. In this regard, I pay a strong tribute to Perrine Goulet and Alain Ramadier: the contributions of their mission of information on social assistance for children – ESA – are particularly enlightening; In particular, they stress our common responsibility to better protect the 314000 children of ESA in our country. In the face of such an observation, the text that brings us together this evening is full of hope. It offers a future for thousands of children, because let us not forget it: the future of these children is also the future of our country! In concrete terms, the purpose of this bill is to strengthen our capacity to prevent and combat violence against children, which requires a thorough reform of our child protection system, as well as of our maternal and child protection system. To do this, we must, of course, remove the inadequate regulations that currently limit the capacity of professionals to act, but also and above all strengthen coordination between the various institutional actors – they are numerous – in order to make public action more efficient. Therefore, before we begin the discussion of the articles, I would like once again to welcome the many advances made by the examination in committee, which have consolidated the original ambitions of the text in order to improve the daily situation of children in care, to strengthen the means of action, to better protect children, as well as the procedural guarantees of educational assistance, or to improve the working conditions of the welcoming family, whose commitment and dedication we know. Ultimately, these measures place the child at the heart of a long neglected public policy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, because many of them go through the child welfare system, the issue of unaccompanied minors is also essential. We have seen this during the debates in committee. On this complex subject, which most of the time involves understanding painful situations, I would like once again to commend the work of the Commissioners, who have been able to address this highly sensitive issue with humanity and a great sense of social action, values unique to our committee. Let us continue in this direction, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can finally start together a new, necessary and expected step in the public policy for the protection of children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u6	I have received a motion from Mr Sébastien Nadot to reject the motion pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u7	There are two types of parliamentarians: the one who follows intangibly the logic of partisan positions, and the one who follows the idea of the general interest and the values of the Republic, for whom the rest is secondary. Parliament has no sense or democratic utility unless it is concerned with acting on the real, only if it is the link between living life – reality – and the general law that gives a foundation to our society. He loses his legitimacy if he prefers to this work the media rushes and the games of postures that no one is interested anymore, except the tiny political Landerneau of the Parisian presidential stables. The Child Protection Bill provides a perfect illustration of this democratic issue. The protection of children concerns all children: children of French nationality as well as foreign children, that goes without saying. Since children of foreign origin are present in the territory of our Republic, the bill necessarily affects our migration policy. However, on the burning migration issues, the ministers and the majority of you are hiding behind their little finger. There was an attempt with the declaration on the migration policy of France and Europe before the National Assembly, followed by a debate in October 2019, but President Macron's promise of an annual parliamentary debate on the migration issue ended there. On this occasion, however, the National Assembly had only two minutes of speaking time: not enough to show the absence of a political plan in this area, since the whole debate was marked by the same depth of analysis as that of a television set by CNews. The Freedom and Territory Group wanted to use its right to draw in order to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on migration, which I have the honour to chair. The subject of ill-treatment of foreign children is almost every hearing and almost every move of this commission. A few days ago, as part of the consideration of this bill in the Committee on Social Affairs, I tabled an amendment that basically said this: single minors and families with one or more minor children cannot be detained by the administrative authority. Some of you may feel that placing children in detention, or brutally separating them from their parents, does not harm their development, that these are foreign considerations about child protection. For my part, and I do not think I am the only one in this House – or, fortunately, in our country – this is not just symbolic violence, but violence against children. These are serious violations of childhood. To prohibit the administrative detention of children or families with one or more children seemed to me clearly to correspond to the spirit and letter of this text "on the protection of children". However, following the tabling of this amendment, the Committee on Social Affairs is replying that "the first paragraph of Rule 45 provides that any amendment is admissible at first reading if it has a link, even indirectly, with the text tabled or transmitted; This is not the case with this amendment, the filing of which cannot be accepted." What a confusion! What a disgrace! Highlighting several major omissions in the text, the Ombudsman's opinion of 25 June 2021 on this bill enshrines an entire chapter on children detained in administrative detention centres (CRAs) or waiting areas, a situation with dramatic consequences for children, which the Defender of Rights is very concerned about. I quote his opinion: "It should be recalled that the conditions of confinement in these places, often located on the edge of the runways of airports, where children can only be confronted with the permanent presence of uniformed police personnel, the conditions of detention, the distress of the persons detained and the violence that it may cause, are likely to have an extremely anxious effect on them. Such conditions are necessarily important sources of anxiety for children, with adverse consequences for their future health and development. "The situation of foreign children in Mayotte, whose date of birth is sometimes changed to show them to be of age or who are attached to third parties for the purposes of detention measures, locked up and then distant is of particular concern in this regard. "The Human Rights Defender is also concerned about the violations of the human rights of foreign children caused by their confinement and strongly reiterates her opposition to the placement of foreign children in administrative detention centres or waiting areas. » She concludes: "The Ombudsman recommends that the Government and Parliament amend legislation, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to prohibit, in all circumstances, the placement of families with children in administrative detention centres and waiting areas. » What are we talking about when we talk about childhood? Of a biological age, certainly, nominated, from birth to 18 years, but above all of an individual, of a human being, our similar being. I have browsed the online literature on child protection proposed by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. "Child protection aims to ensure that the child's basic needs are taken into account, to support his or her physical, emotional, intellectual and social development, and to preserve his or her health, safety, morality and education. » Your strategy for the prevention and protection of children, Mr. Secretary of State, patiently constructed, aims to reform policies in this area; The aim is to "guarantee children's rights to health, education, emotional safety and autonomy after 18 years". This strategy aims to "improve the situation of protected children and protect them". You also stress, on the Ministry's website, the international framework guaranteed by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child: non-discrimination, article 2, best interests of the child, article 3, but also the right to survival and development, respect for the views of the child, the right to education... It's all good intentions. However, the alarming examples of the consequences of detention, allowed by current legislation, of children and their parents in CRA are daily. The drifts are frequent, and the children are locked up massively, especially in Mayotte. Also hear, Mr. Secretary of State, the terrible words of the Defender of Rights, pronounced eight days ago during his hearing before the Migration Inquiry Committee: "In Mayotte, we were alerted about the situation of a mother in administrative detention without her baby, that she was breastfeeding! The child, who was one month old, was entrusted to third parties who were there. This is not a single situation like this one we have seen, but several. How far are the violations of the law going? How far does inhumanity go when such violence is practised? It is not the Member of Parliament for Haute-Garonne who speaks to you, but the Defender of Rights. The current state of law in practice leads to catastrophic drifts. I know all of you are attentive to the real translation of what we are voting here. So why go so far as to refuse to debate an amendment which, Madam chairman of the committee, not only relates to the text, but proposes a clear path to improve the protection of children in our country? Unless you don't recognize Mayotte as a territory of the Republic, just like Paris? But what is the Republic, what is the republican promise of France if the children do not receive in Mayotte the basic protection that our right and our State must guarantee to every child? Unless convenience – I said convenience, because it is not a decision with financial consequences, the specialists even agree that the cost of incarceration of families in CRA is greater than their shelter in other non-closed structures – is worth more, in your mind, than all these young lives that are being damaged? Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote this in La Nouvelle Héloïse, of which the National Assembly has the original manuscript: "Children have ways of seeing, thinking, feeling, which are their own; Nothing makes any less sense than wanting to replace ours. Where do you come from these ways of seeing, thinking and feeling that lead you to pass the rights of the child after the hysterization of our society around the fear of abroad? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] To believe that you are going to stop migration by ostensibly displaying the accumulation of signals of a bad reception of foreign people is to deeply ignore the motivations that are at the origin of their coming; it is ignoring the mechanisms of migratory phenomena; It is ultimately contributing to the abuse of these children, and all this to chase political and media chimeras. But it's not just that! The European Court of Human Rights condemns France with disconcerting, striking regularity for the placement of families with children in administrative detention centres and waiting areas. We are a very bad student; We mistreat these people, and among them, these children. Parliament; Backyard tows are going well, and this may be normal. But before the obvious, the indignity, the misfortune, our assembly must not give up. Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, by declaring this amendment inadmissible, you have hindered my work as a parliamentarian. You have forbidden me, in a child protection bill, to open a debate on a subject specifically related to child protection. On what right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u8	We respect the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u9	What allows you to violate the right of amendment of parliamentarians, enshrined in article 44 of the Constitution? I do not believe that I am the only one who is moved by these practices which are contrary to the spirit of a parliamentary democracy. More than 200,000 petitioners have mobilized behind CIMADE, the Education without Borders Network (RESF), the Ligue des droits de l'homme, the ANAFE (Association nationale d'assistance aux frontières pour les étrangers), the MRAP (Movement contre le racisme et pour l'amitié entre les peuples), the Syndicat des avocats de France, France Terre d'asile, the ASSFAM (Association social service familiale migrants), and most recently UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund), against the confinement of children in administrative detention centres. It's not just a joke from a deputy or the Defender of Rights! The annual report on local administrative detention centres was published today; This is the result of the work of several associations – Refugee Forum-Cosi, France Terre d'asile, SOS Solidarités-ASSFAM Group, CIMADE and Solidarity Mayotte. From his reading, about the children and their confinement in France, we go out stunned. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, we now have to say, with regard to children and families with one or more minor children detained by the administrative authority, whether suffering should, for convenience, continue to prevail over child protection. I am defending here a motion of rejection in order to speak of children who have already suffered a harsh, difficult and sometimes perilous life course. It is only up to you that I withdraw it, since you both, Mr Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, have the power to put this amendment, signed by twenty parliamentarians from six different political groups, back into the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr Guillaume Chiche also applauds]] Secretary of State, you said earlier: "It is not the walls that protect you, it is the people that surround you. In France, in the 21st century, children and families with one or more minor children must no longer be detained by the administrative authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u10	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Valérie Six.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u11	The IDU Group believes that this text still lacks ambition, given the scope of the subject and the work that remains to be done. But we will have every opportunity to develop our position during the general discussion. We believe that this text should not be rejected even before it can be debated, even before the amendments of each individual can be considered. We remain optimistic that this bill needs to be enriched, and I sincerely hope that our discussions will be fruitful and that we will succeed in building a framework for better protection of children. We are also counting on the parliamentary shuttle, because I am sure that senators will have a lot to do: they are close to local and regional authorities, and their expertise in the management of this public policy by departments will be valuable. It is not the practice of the IDU and independent group to vote on motions for rejection, especially at the beginning of a legislative process. This will be no exception. The debate must take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u12	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u13	My words will first be to congratulate and thank Sébastien Nadot for taking the time to denounce, in this forum, the impossibility of presenting his amendment. It was pertinent to take advantage of this text to say emphatically how unworthy it is, in the idea that we make ourselves of the Republic, that children can be detained. How many are they at the time we're talking? I don't know. But the CIMADE tells us that they were at least 300 to 350 in 2018, and that this number tends to increase. Perhaps, in the wake of the health crisis, he has decreased a little. But this possibility of confinement is there, with all that it entails: all the practitioners of solidarity know the suffering it causes – eczema, diseases – and the terrible conditions in which children, sometimes even newborns, are locked up. My colleagues, in particular François Ruffin and Ugo Bernalicis, will tell you our objections: the lack of resources, the often cosmetic nature of the changes made on this very serious subject, the refusal to leave this departmental system where inequalities from one department to another are stark to go towards a national public service. The stakes are multiple. But it was well understood that this rejection motion was rightly motivated by the denunciation of the administrative detention of children. I am surprised by the Government's lack of response – it's a way of saying "cause always! – on such a serious subject. The fact that the text does not prohibit the placement of children in detention centres is also a signature. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Guillaume Chiche also applauds]] Secretary of State, take the trouble to answer, given the time spent by our colleague Sébastien Nadot and the seriousness of what he denounces. In this way, you could decide, in the course of parliamentary debates, to take this question in arms. Let us stop, in France, the homeland of human rights – as we so often call it – from placing innocent children in detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u14	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u15	In turn, I would like to thank colleague Sébastien Nadot, who has devoted these fifteen minutes to this central subject, the refusal to see children and their families locked up in detention centres. During the discussions on the "asylum and immigration" law, the GDR group had objected to the French State continuing to detain children in detention centres. In fact, we were told here that a working group would be set up. This was the case and, ultimately, children continue to be held in detention centres. By voting in favour of the motion of rejection, the GDR Group voted in favour of the principles set out very clearly by our colleague. We will continue to debate this text, we have tabled amendments to try to fuel the debate. I note, like him, that other amendments relating to other subjects have been found inadmissible. It is very difficult to understand the reasons, even after asking for explanations. In addition, provide for migration control measures in a text which should be devoted solely to the protection of children, as its title indicates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u16	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u17	...it's a dangerous route. This is a course we do not want to take, and that is the only reason why we will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u18	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u19	The bill is, as you know, the legislative component of a child prevention and protection strategy that began in 2019. I am therefore pleased that he is in session, but I am astonished and can only regret the tabling of a motion to reject a text that contains so much progress. Mr Nadot, are you against improving the accompaniment of young adults who have left social assistance for children? Can you be against the strengthening of the rights of the child, protected by the possibility for the judge to ask for his representation by a lawyer? Are you not satisfied with strengthening the monitoring of the criminal record of professionals working with children? Do you not want to improve the status of family assistants, in particular to guarantee them a monthly remuneration at least equal to the SMIC and this, from the first child in care? Finally, are you also opposed to the establishment of a strengthened territorial governance of the child protection policy, which will allow for better monitoring of minors and young adults and homogenization of practices between departments? I cannot believe this, especially since the Libertés et territoires group, through the voice of the Member of Parliament Jeanine Dubie, had rather welcomed these measures in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u20	I would like to answer these rhetorical questions, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u21	The text contains two provisions on unaccompanied minors. The first relates to the distribution key, which is intended to be more equitable for the territories. The second concerns the widespread use of minority assessment support files, already used by more than 80 per cent of departments. Of course, the bill does not mention the situation of administrative detention centres,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u22	It's not that complicated to say we refuse to lock up children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...but that is not his purpose and you know that a commission of inquiry on migration is under way since you are chairing it, Mr. Nadot. Given the complexity of the subject, it is important to await its conclusions. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will of course vote against your motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u24	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u25	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, this bill was long overdue. He's not perfect; It must of course be amended, as was the case in committee. It can also be pointed out that the exchanges were numerous and long but respectful. It is time to debate and that is why the Republican Group will not vote on the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u26	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u27	A lot has already been said. To remove any ambiguity, the Dem Group will not support the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u28	Is it for us to lock up the kids in jail?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u29	Admittedly, others have said, the text needs to be improved – more or less, according to the benches. Nevertheless, the Government had the merit of proposing a text that had been expected by Parliament for very long months in order to improve the situation of children. To stop so close to the goal by adopting a motion of prior rejection would not advance the subject on which you want to debate, Mr. Nadot. I understand that the situation of young people in detention centres is problematic, but we have already discussed it during the review of the Asylum and Immigration Act. We will not constantly raise the same issues when they have already been discussed throughout the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u30	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u31	This isn't necessarily the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u32	You'll tell us when it's time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u33	It was the majority who put the subject back on the table! Florent Boudié has tabled a bill to regulate the detention of minors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u34	Some of my amendments have also been declared inadmissible, unfortunately, under Articles 40 and 45 of the Constitution – I have expressed myself sufficiently on this subject last week. In any event, adopting the motion to reject would lead to the end of the discussion of the text while children, family assistants, educators are waiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u35	What about those waiting in a detention facility?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Of course, like you, we will amend the text, the examination of which will not end at this stage. We will not therefore vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u37	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u38	I would like to provide answers both in form and substance. On the form, the Agir ens group has always opposed the various motions, whether they are of prior rejection or of referral back to committee where they still exist. Indeed, we have always considered that the place of expression and debate where our parliamentary mission must be exercised is here. Secondly, during the parliamentary term, we have all tabled amendments that have been declared inadmissible, for example, under sections 40 or 45 of the Constitution. We have never failed to complain about this – I agree with you on this point, Mr Nadot. However, if each time we had to table a motion of rejection, we would have lost ourselves in our mission. In substance, I agree with the other speakers: the text is very much expected. We will also table amendments to try to improve it, but there is certainly some progress that we have hoped for in the territories. Two years ago, I participated in a child protection assessment mission in the Northern Department, whose report was given to you, Secretary of State. I am very pleased that your proposals overlap with the expectations of the territories. It would be a shame if we did not consider this text, even if I readily admit to this House that the subject that Mr Nadot raises is of great importance. I almost want to wait for the fruit of your work to be reflected in a bill. In fact, parliamentary work also involves tabling a bill to deal with a subject and not just mentioning it in fifteen minutes in a motion to reject it beforehand. This issue deserves more than fifteen minutes, and we will all agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u39	Let's give him forty minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u40	[[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Our group will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u41	And we will vote against the administrative detention of children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u42	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u43	This is the only time we have during the legislature to change the daily lives of children, young people to whom life does not give a gift, for whom life is like a journey of the combatant. It is up to us to shoulder our responsibilities by providing concrete responses to these children and by protecting our most vulnerable citizens; That's the very essence of our mandate. Overall, the text still lacks ambition. If we support each measure taken one by one, we regret that the text as a whole is insufficient to improve the daily lives of these children. Article 3 is an example: it makes accommodation of minors in hotels an exception, especially in emergency situations. Clearly, we are in favour of reducing hotel accommodation, but what should have been proposed is additional means to strengthen the reception facilities and human support to ensure that these children receive a dignified and humane reception. We do not want to be satisfied with a policy of small steps. A few piecemeal measures do not relieve us of our responsibility to change the daily lives of these children. Many of us have tabled amendments to enrich this text. In particular, we seem to agree, in many groups, on the systematic presence of the lawyer with the child throughout the proceedings in order to represent him. Indeed, the child's vulnerability requires that he or she be properly accompanied to ensure that his or her interest is expressed and taken into account. How do you want a child who is experiencing difficulties, finding himself in complex procedures whose stakes are enormous for his future, to be able to represent himself alone with his problems? As we have done in committee, we will present an amendment on the subject. Second, there was obviously a need to address the disparities in the remuneration of family assistants, depending on whether they are employed by an association or by a legal person governed by public law. On the other hand, we are wondering about the authorization given to a 67-year-old family assistant to continue the care of a young person until the age of 70. This derogation gives the impression that we are facing the shortage of family assistants by taking a measure that allows those who work in this profession to work more than reason. You will tell us that we lack family assistants and that there are few young people. The IDU-I group considers that the real answer is to upgrade this profession, which could make it more attractive, including for a younger audience. As for isolated minors, more and more are asking for reception and we must protect them because, far from their own and all that they know, they lack benchmarks. As my colleague Agnès Thill has pointed out several times, the reports follow one another and highlight the problems: the exponential growth in the number of minors received puts the entire system under stress and the fraud of adults who pass themselves on to minors undermines the acceptability of the system. It is not tolerable that majors are among the minors we are supposed to protect. This is the reverse: vulnerable minors are put at risk. Like the rest of the text, these measures are positive and we support them. Nevertheless, will they enable us to succeed in protecting and accompanying all these minors? Finally, we draw the Government's attention to the need to compensate for the new expenditures created for the departments. We also proposed, at the initiative of the Assembly of the French Departments, an amendment to allocate the cost of these measures at parity between the State and the departments. It was declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution. How high does the Government intend to offset these new expenditures for the departments? In conclusion, the UDI-I Group intends a priori to abstain on this text, which we welcome the steps taken one by one but which, on the whole, we regret the lack of ambition. However, our position would be likely to evolve in the light of the enrichments made to the text during our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u44	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u45	Legislating on child protection is an exercise that requires us to take into account the basic needs of the child and to keep an eye on his or her best interests. With this text, we deal with intimate, painful, traumatic subjects, where abandonment, separation and suffering rhythmize childhood and adolescence. This is one of the reasons why I wish that we give up the term "investment" and that we would prefer the term "reception". For some, it is a semantic effect, but I sincerely believe that words make sense and believe that it will affect the way we look at these children. If there are still too many of them on a difficult path, including once they have reached the age of majority, we must not give in to fatality. Their take-over by ESA should not determine the rest of their lives. Child protection is also a matter for the departments. We must therefore take care to involve them and ensure that the measures that we adopt, including financial measures, are applicable. If the bill is presented to us as a result of a long consultation with the departments, I regret that we are examining it in a very time-consuming manner and, more importantly, in the context of the renewal of departmental bodies. Beyond the beginning of the accelerated procedure, this text leaves a taste for incompleteness and appears quite far from what we might have hoped for. There are many positive measures, such as the reception by a family member, the supervision of the accommodation of minors at the hotel, or the delegation of acts of parental authority to a trustworthy third party. I am also thinking of the systematization of a policy to combat ill-treatment in institutions, even if the text fails to propose yet expected standards of supervision. While the provisions contain some of the proposals contained in the excellent information report by our colleagues Alain Ramadier and Perrine Goulet, they are insufficiently exploited. The inescapable question of means, which often explains the gap between the laws we adopt and their application, may greatly reduce the scope of this text. Indeed, even if this is a matter for the departments, the State must be at the meeting, the first of which is obviously financial. Will the EUR 600 million already made available under the national strategy for the prevention and protection of children be sufficient to deploy and sustain the new measures of this bill? These, in any case, will have a significant impact on the finances of the departments, which will have to be accompanied in order to achieve the objectives set. Indeed, it is the lack of resources, especially human resources, that prevents us from having a policy of protection and prevention that meets the challenges. Many preventable situations are not detected in time and too many educational or reception measures are not carried out. Is it useful to recall that specialized prevention has been abolished by seventeen departments? These issues are not dealt with, just as the support of young adults is excluded. As far as family assistants are concerned, we need to go beyond the mere salary revalorisation. Efforts were needed in the areas of training, the right to rest and housing. And what about the working conditions of the other social and medico-social workers of ESA, who too are insufficiently numerous and exhausted? As for maternal and child protection, it is a pity that it is not addressed more socially, that there is a strictly health-related vision and that there is no better connection with school medicine. The IMP has long suffered from a narrowing of its resources and the proliferation of its missions, which prevents it from focusing on prevention and support. We must reconnect with home visits by midwives, but also by social workers. This is the only way to truly understand the child's environment and appreciate his or her daily living conditions. Finally, as far as unaccompanied minors are concerned, the debate deserves to be dispassionate. We cannot address this phenomenon through the mere prism of controlling and evaluating the minority. The journeys of these young people would benefit greatly from being improved: they are children before being foreign persons. The question of the recentralisation of the assessment of the minority at the level of state services must therefore arise, so that social workers can devote themselves to their core mission, namely support and protection. Finally, we must allow those involved in vocational training to systematically receive an early examination to obtain a residence permit, so that they are taken over by ESA and their integration efforts are not nullified. We will have the opportunity to come back to our proposals in more detail during the debates. Depending on these, the Libertés et territoires group will determine its vote. [[Mr. Sébastien Nadot applauds]] In conclusion, the freedom of our group, including the freedom to express disagreement, is customary. This is what our colleague Sébastien Nadot has done in his personal capacity on the subject of minors in administrative detention centres and I hope that his intervention will not remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u46	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u47	"Every baby and until I was eighteen and a half years old, I was placed. I was in Valloires, Plessiel, CDEF – Centre départemental enfants et familles – in three foster families, then again at CDEF. My mother was an alcoholic: that's why we were placed, my little sister and I. I was going to see my dad from time to time. "When he remarried, I came home and there I was beaten by my mother-in-law. When the educators came, asked questions, I knew I couldn't talk, because otherwise, it would be terrible. My little sister, I couldn't leave her in the middle of this. One morning, on leaving for school, we escaped to the village, to an abandoned house. The gendarmes found us and we explained everything to them. "That's when things changed. I stayed at the CDEF for a year. When I arrived, I was very happy, because I was given food. At home, it was okay, but what I preferred was foster care. It was like a second family. But they were taking me off so I could go back to my father's house. And since I was beaten again, because it didn't work, they ended up putting me somewhere else. "After a while, even in foster families, I didn't want to tie up any more. In the same way, every time an educator approached, I broke the link, because it hurt too much to tie them up so that they would break off afterwards. I wouldn't. The hardest part is that the system always changed me from referent. » It's love that Anthony talks about; of disappointed love, of love which he no longer dares to receive because of the primary and primordial bond with the parents which is supposed to build us all, but which, at Anthony, at 100,000 Anthony, is destroyed, even destroyed. The system behind it is also at issue, namely, child welfare as it works or rather is very dysfunctional. Does this system replace this primary bond, which has been damaged? Does it offer stability to children? Does he guarantee the fidelity of a home? That's the opposite of what we're looking at. The ASE splits the courses, slams the kids, strives to force children to go back and forth to their parents, like so many tests and, often, as many failures. She places them, moves them, puts them back, moves them back. Every time it hurts. Every time, it's a tear, a tear. Every time, trust is broken. You should take your hand, tender, and hold it for a long time. However, the ESA does not offer any companion in the form of a red wire, support, which would be constantly present over the years. No, instead, it's a waltz of referents, with a turnover, resignations, replacements. They're people who, for kids, only have references to the title. They don't meet them, or so little, so rarely, and sometimes don't know their name. These referents flow under the files, overwhelmed by the obligations, the administrative tasks. They have little time left to listen, to advise and, why not, to love. We should set a course, with a compass. However, ESA does not develop any projects for the child, although it is mandatory to do so. The kids are therefore carried away according to the winds and currents, according to the judgments and referents, according to the measures, on a piece by piece, and according to the free places. And finally, the last break came: at the age of 18, the ASE let young people go. Today's over! What parent, what father, what mother does? The state does it and the state, it's a little us. This system is not human and your text will not change it. You're tinkering, you're tinkering, you're having no ambition, you're not cutting, you're having no means. I repeat, this system is not human. Yet, and I would like to stress this point, it is well populated by humans who try to remain so, to transmit people, to make humans, with bond and attachment. Of the bond and attachment, Anthony ended up making it the bet again. He continued: "Since I was a little girl, I wanted to enter the Foreign Legion, but everyone told me that it would be impossible. I ran into an educator who believed in me. Didier was like a father. He trained me for months, followed me. I was boxing, getting up at five in the morning to go running. I passed the Legion tests: the first, the second, the third, but the last, in Aubagne, I missed it. It was my 18th birthday. I then passed the tests to become an alpine hunter and I passed them. But since I had a criminal record, they refused me. Instead, I graduate to become a sports host. Thanks to Didier, I've moved on. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Glory to Didier! Glory be to all Didier, who, in silence, invisible, repair the bonds both well and badly, regroup destinies, despite a system that blocks them, crushes them, administers them, functions them. This system, today, with this text, we will not change it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u48	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u49	It is true that this text on child protection was very expected, as the needs are immense and the gaps are acute. Recently, it has taken many studies and documentaries, sometimes shocks, as well as the mobilization of personalities and former children entrusted to ESA, so that the issue of their safety is finally taken seriously. Like my group, I consider the issues of children's rights, especially the right to children, to be major issues of our century. I remember a former campaign of the French People's Relief which reminded us that "the rights of the child are growing up men" and women. It is this thread that should be pulled. However, let's say right now, this bill is not up to the expectations expressed as a result of all these revelations – I don't know if it's appropriate to talk about freedom of speech, but it turns out that a word has spread well in society. Yes, child welfare is in crisis; It's dysfunctional. We face overcrowded foster families, a shortage of family assistants, a lack of resources for justice and departments, the question of violence, but also the question of meaning, connection and attachment. What happens when parents can no longer ensure love and security? If we do nothing or if we remain in this version of the text, I fear that these problems will worsen further, given the state of our society and the social and economic crisis that we are experiencing. You know that, but we will say it again and again on many occasions, these shortcomings have an impact on children's lives, their well-being and their safety throughout their lives. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Like others, my group has tried to enrich the text by tabling many amendments, but many of them have been resented by being declared inadmissible on the grounds that they would have increased the financial burden on the State. Yes, we assume that protecting children is a cost and requires human and financial resources. Contrary to what the bill would like to claim, I believe that better protection of children cannot be free. There is no such thing. For example, your text does not, or does not mention too much, the concept of prevention of children at risk and the lack of resources devoted to this mission provided by social action, specialized prevention, or child psychiatry. We also regret that the generalization of major young contracts has been refused. However, this measure is unanimous among child protection professionals and among former children entrusted to ESA. And the numbers are alarming, with dry exits causing human drama. We will continue to defend this provision during the examination of the text, and perhaps the colleagues who had co-signed Mrs Bourguignon's bill – which had resulted in a fiasco – will find their compass on this point. We are also wondering about article 3, which you are introducing, Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the prohibition on the placement of children in the hotel. In fact, this article does not formally prohibit this practice, since it provides for derogations allowing the placement of children in such institutions in emergency situations. As we know, a child in danger is still in an emergency situation. Thus, with this text, departments can easily invoke the urgency to place children in the hotel. Moreover, there is no distinction between the shelter period, which is often a time of great urgency, and the period during which children are placed on child welfare. To go quickly and summarize our position on this text, and even if I would have liked to have the time to mention other elements, this law will cost nothing while the needs are immense. And this text, which was supposed to speak only of child protection, inserts migration control measures. I say again, this is a line that we will not be able to cross. It is dangerous not only for unaccompanied minors, but for all children. There would also be much to say about the generalization of the AEM file – a minority assessment support file – which is contrary to the rights of the child. We had already formally opposed it when it was created by the "asylum and immigration" law: this file is contrary to international law. The impossibility for departments to reassess the minority once it has been recognized is a slight improvement, but we have the means to go further. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In any event, as it stands, we will not be able to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u50	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u51	It is with great satisfaction that I see this text, which places child protection among the priorities of the Government's social policy and which complements the measures adopted since the beginning of the quinquennium. Should we recall the creation of a State Secretariat exclusively for children and families, and the development of a national strategy for the prevention and protection of children 2020-2022, which has resulted in a contract between the State and the departments on shared objectives and dedicated financial resources of around 600 million euros over three years, and in major national actions? I would like to welcome the significant progress that has already been made in addressing, among other things, the social and vocational integration and autonomy of young adults from child welfare. I am thinking in particular of the automation of higher education scholarships at the highest level, of access to student housing, of the framework agreement with the local missions for personalized support from the age of 17 years, of automatic access, since February, to the young people's guarantee which allows for enhanced professional support and financial assistance of 500 euros per month. These advances are key measures that reflect the Government's unwavering support for young adults from child welfare. Given the many challenges to further strengthen the protection of children, a long process of consultation was undertaken with the relevant actors – social workers, departments, family representatives – with the central objective of combating violence against children, including in institutions, but also of removing inadequate regulations that limit the capacity of professionals to act and of strengthening coordination between the various institutional actors in order to make public action more efficient. I would like to pay tribute to the work carried out by the two rapporteurs, Bénédicte Pételle and Michèle Peyron. The bill is the legislative component of the national strategy for the prevention and protection of children. Indeed, improving the day-to-day situation of children in care, strengthening the current capacity to better protect children, strengthening the procedural guarantees of educational assistance, improving the working conditions of the foster family, strengthening maternal and child protection as a health actor, improving the protection of unaccompanied minors by improving their care or reforming the governance of child protection are the main measures in this text which place the child at the heart of a public policy that is too long neglected. As you will have understood, our ambition is to act with pragmatism by renovating the management of this decentralized policy, whose department is the leader, and to improve its efficiency and homogeneity. Almost 350 amendments have already been discussed in committee, some 60 of which have been adopted; they provide for a better consideration of the child's speech in the context of the assessment of a family member or a trusted third party, an explicit limitation of up to two months in the event of exceptional recourse to the hotel for the placement of a child, the imposition of a minimum level of supervision and monitoring of minors in hotels and the training required for such supervision, the possibility given to any minor taken over by the ESA to appoint a person of trust to accompany him in his steps, the inclusion of the shared vocabulary of the National Commission for Combating Abuse and Promoting Well-Processing in the elaboration of settlement or service projects, the creation of an external reference to the structures in the field of abuse, better information to the judge in case of a change of place of placement by the ESA services, the incorporation of an entire title of the text into the PMI with numerous advances in this field, the establishment of a college of children and young people protected within the National Council for the Protection of Children and the organisation of a minor's governance which, after having been established by the parties, have been strengthened and the follow-up of minors who have been entrusted with the continuity of the practices. During the debate, the La République en marche group will propose other amendments allowing significant progress: improving the reception of protected children, in particular with a view to better accompanying trusted third parties in their reception of protected children, encouraging family mediation measures, ensuring that the care path, especially in cases of disability, is taken into account in the project for the child, strengthening the right of the child by the presence of a lawyer at the request of the juvenile judge, ensuring access of parliamentarians to institutions for the protection of children, better accompanying young adults who have left ESA by giving them access to interviews with the services of ESA after their majority, or financing the public interest group set up in Article 13 at parity between the State and the departments. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The stakes are high, both for young people and for professionals involved with them. The bill is undoubtedly a new and expected step towards strengthened child protection; It will ensure that children have a safe and secure environment and that professionals are able to carry out their tasks better. I have no doubt that we can gather around these advances in behalf of children and adolescents in child welfare and that the National Assembly will vote in its diversity, beyond the ranks of the majority, in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u52	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u53	The bill we are looking at is about those who deserve the highest of all attention: children, and not just any. I want to talk to you here about children with a difficult life course; children who have been confronted with the worst; children who have, for some, lost their parents; Still others who have been or are being abandoned, mistreated, sometimes even abused; children who have experienced tragic events, children to whom innocence has been taken far too soon. The nation must do everything they can to make them happy and get away with it like any other child. If we cannot erase what they have experienced, we must nevertheless help them, support them and accompany them towards a better future. Two years ago, the fact-finding mission on child welfare, which I had the honour of chairing, and of which Perrine Goulet was the rapporteur, interviewed former children in care. I'm thinking of them today. The majority of them had experienced the unspeakable, the unthinkable, not only before, but also, sometimes, after their placement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed collectively. Of course, among the 300,000 children cared for by child protection, many are those whose placement has allowed a necessary shelter, and I would like to acknowledge the tremendous work of family assistants, specialized educators and all those who have chosen to devote their lives to these children. However, far too many shortcomings and serious shortcomings have been highlighted in recent years in overwhelming reports or in the chilling testimonies of children and professionals. Child protection suffers and needs renewal now. This bill was expected. I regret that it is so late, that its consideration is so fast and that once again the Government has not wanted to hear the opposition's proposals, or so little, on a subject that should go beyond all divisions. Of course, we can be satisfied with the measures taken to put an end to placements in hotels, to establish a national benchmark for the evaluation of worrying information, or to raise the salaries of family assistants and to reorganise the national control of child protection. But we expected more, in the best interests of the child. Nothing about the breakdowns in children's lives when the preservation of a fluctuating parental authority prevails, nothing about the absence of regular medical follow-up, about the almost general lack of psychological support – even though announcements have been made, Mr. Secretary of State – about the rights that these children could enjoy thanks to the assistance of a lawyer like that enjoyed by their parents, nothing about the child's personal path created by the law of 5 March 2007 and reinforced in its ambitions by the law of 14 March 2016. What is the point of adding legislation to still unimplemented texts? Nor is there any indication of the delays far too long for the implementation of educational measures in an open environment, the MEMOs. So yes, ladies and gentlemen, the progress proposed by the text will improve some of the points on which we need to act, and we welcome your involvement, Secretary of State, but we are far from the ambitious bill that was announced to us two years ago. I regret that, just as I regret that the immense work done upstream was not better taken into account in the drafting of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] We have noted in committee that you are asking for time to consider certain points. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore be waiting to know the content of the text before deciding whether or not to vote in favour of the text, but I would like to say in my personal capacity that expectations are important. Means will have to be put on the table, otherwise disappointments will be real and profound.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u54	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u55	As we begin our examination of the text, I want to have a thought for educators, foster families, child protection professionals, the millions of children who have passed through these homes and foster families, but especially for the 340,000 children who are now accompanied, both badly and well, by social services. This long-awaited bill is the only and only opportunity to legislate on child protection under this legislature; It obliges us in terms of efficiency and method. The discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs gave rise to rich debates which enabled several improvements to be made to the provisions contained in the text. It will be up to the national representative to continue these improvements during the discussion that is underway at the end of the evening. [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] In July 2019, I was reporting with Alain Ramadier on child welfare in which we made 19 recommendations, some of which are included in the bill. We consider this to be a substantial step forward, in particular with regard to national governance, which is evolving positively for greater efficiency in the service of children, the national repository for the evaluation of worrying information, which will be the same throughout the country, or the use of trustworthy third parties, who, if it grows in power, will become a fundamental lever and an alternative to placement. This system already exists, but unfortunately it is not used enough by the magistrates, because there is still an idea against which we all have to fight: it is not because parents are failing that grandparents, but also the rest of the family, are too. I sincerely hope that the text that we are going to adopt will go beyond this idea received in the best interests of the child. It is precisely in the pursuit of the best interests of the child that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will discuss the bill. While it is a source of hope and improvement, there are still some questions about this text. Beyond the necessary reform of national governance, action must be taken at the local level and initiatives must be taken. If the 2016 law created the departmental observatories for the protection of children, we must be clear: they are not installed throughout the country, alas. Thus, Mr. Secretary of State, it seems imperative to us to seize the opportunity of the public session to advance local governance by making it more rhythmic, open, but also more efficient and responsive to experimentation. This is the answer to all situations. During the debates in committee, a request was made on all benches: that of the presence of a lawyer alongside the child in the proceedings of educational assistance. We are convinced that the interests of the child must be defended on his behalf at all times, at all ages and under all circumstances. We would have liked the appointment of a lawyer to be systematic and less restricted in order to make the child, as you yourself said in the presentation of the text, Secretary of State, a subject of law. [[Mrs Stella Dupont and Maud Petit applaud]] Another topic has animated our debates in committee, that of hotel accommodation. Again, we all agree on one point: the situations experienced by these children are unworthy of the French Republic. Never should public authorities have resorted to this practice, which has been tolerated for too long without anyone concerned. If the text imposes safeguards to guide the use of this practice, they will have to be further strengthened and, above all, ultimately find durable and secure alternatives to what constitutes shame for our nation. [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] Finally, Mr Secretary of State, another subject has asked us and again questions us: the rate of supervision. Currently, the law or regulation provides for a minimum number of adults for the supervision of our children, during Scouting or sports activities, in holiday camps or even during school outings, but when the Republic has to ensure the protection of the children entrusted to it, this is not the case. Let us agree that this is not acceptable. We therefore look forward to the publication of the decree, which has to be issued since 2007, since the Council of State considers that the issue falls within the regulatory sphere. This child protection policy has a cost of €8.4 billion for 330,000 children. However, we find that among homeless people under 25 years of age born in France, one in four is a former ASE child. We can do better and, above all, we must. Breaking this inequality of destiny must be our sole goal. Ladies and gentlemen, we must demand better results. We must demand that departments better accompany these young people. We must demand that the ministries of justice, national education and health work better with social services. We must demand that the State not turn away from its mission. It is not acceptable that a girl leaving ESA at 18 years of age, without resources, should be advised to become pregnant to be accompanied. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ronsard wrote that "youth flees without ever returning." This youth, we must offer it to those with whom we are responsible. That would be the pride of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u56	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u57	Five years after the law of 14 March 2016, this bill on child protection is a source of great expectations, as the stakes are high. More than 340,000 children benefit from a child welfare measure. According to the law, this authority has the lead department, even though it remains at the crossroads of State policies on justice, health and national education. For the departments, child protection, this social assistance, represents a national budget of EUR 8.3 billion. This figure takes full force when we know the human drama of the dry outings at the age of 18. Among the children receiving protection, many suffer from developmental disorders and almost 30% suffer from a disability that requires specific and adapted support. This would also require a review of all mechanisms in the medical and social sector to better support these children. First of all, we should stop closing the EMI – the medical-educational institutes – on the weekend, as this places child protection teams in great difficulty in all our territories. Mr Secretary of State, you know that in order to protect children, to enable them to grow up well, prevention and identification must be promoted from an early age, support for parenting must be developed massively and a specific cross-cutting culture of training on understanding the child's metabehaviour during its development must be promoted. For example, the contribution of neurosciences concerning the brain damage of the baby or child caused by domestic violence and abuse is no longer to be demonstrated; They have a lasting impact on development. Sharing this culture of training at all levels of government and department is an imperative, to speak the same language and end the culture of silo, dear to our administrations. As you know, all the signals give the alarm; Child protection is out of breath. Many documentaries followed by debates, films and books show a reality that few wanted to see, but sometimes also great successes, hope, inspiring and caring practices, albeit too few. Children at risk are placed on the front of the stage, in order to avoid that the inequalities of destiny are added to the inequalities of territories in the care; Today these are no longer acceptable. Our society discovers a reality that it did not want to see, a policy of shadow that exposes children to serious ill-treatment and educational deficiencies. The law of 14 March 2016 marked a great step forward, but it is not sufficiently enforced by the departments – I know it all the more because I was vice-president of a department for ten years. Justice too often continues to rely on the law of 5 March 2007, focusing on the family rather than the best interests of the child. How can we not wish to overthrow the table, when we paint so much to better accompany these children injured by life, often from the earliest age, knowing that each person walks in the footsteps of his childhood and that we must respond to the urgency of the emotional construction and safety of the child, to his future? This highlight shows how breathless child protection is in many territories, despite the major laws of 2007 and 2016 and despite the means devoted to it. I want to pay tribute here to the whistleblowers, the associations, the young adults who stress the need to change the paradigm of child protection. This draft law on the protection of children, which comes in a more than forced agenda, contains some progress and I welcome your announcements earlier, Mr Secretary of State, about amendments that we have debated in the Committee on Laws or directly concerning young adults, but not just – it is a whole. Of course, this text is incomplete, while expectations for child protection are extremely high, but for me, the anticipated progress on young adults is a very important sign. With the exception of the AEM file, which concerns unaccompanied minors and on which I know that we will never agree – we have often talked about it, including in the context of my former role as vice-president of the department responsible for child protection – I am confident that our discussions will be rich and feed on our proposals. Even if I remain very angry, because seventeen of my amendments have been declared inadmissible on the grounds that they would contravene the provisions of Article 40 of the Constitution, many amendments will be debated today, allowing us to move this text forward. As I told you, Australia today and Quebec tomorrow make action for young people between the ages of 18 and 25 a priority; No one puts a child on the street at the age of 18. France must show the way. I have good hope, thanks to your proposals, which are a first step, a path that will have to be continued tomorrow. We will discuss it – I will take care of it personally and you know my determination on these issues. Finally, I would like to add that there will have to be a code for children, because it has become necessary to include all the texts on this subject, on which we have legislated a great deal, within a specific code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u58	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u59	This evening we are looking at a bill that aims to improve the situation of children in child welfare, to improve the profession of family assistants and to modernize the governance of child protection. Mr Secretary of State, this is the culmination of a long-term dialogue that you have conducted with the parties concerned, while closely involving parliamentarians, it should be stressed. As a member of the Northern Department Council, I chaired a mission to assess child welfare schemes in this department, and I was able to assess the need to change existing legislation in order to improve the support of welcomed children and to make our society grow in its attention to the most fragile. I am pleased to note that this text is an effective contribution. The Working Together Group therefore welcomes the inclusion on the agenda of this bill, which will serve to reaffirm the interest of the child at the heart of child protection policy. This principle will be clarified, as article 1 of the text establishing the obligation for educational services to assess whether the minor can be entrusted to a family member or a trusted third party in case of danger. While institutional placement is sometimes unavoidable, keeping in a secure and familiar environment must be given unambiguous priority for the well-being of the child; We therefore agree with the clarification provided for in Article 1. However, in order to better guarantee the protection of the child, we will propose an amendment to ensure appropriate support when the child is placed with a family member. If the judge is allowed to order the intervention of an ombudsman during parental visits, the right of access may be exercised under the most serene conditions possible. In addition, in common with many colleagues, we propose replacing the term "child in care" with the words "child in care" to better demonstrate this positive approach to protection. This bill opens up the prospect of a more peaceful future for children entrusted to the child welfare services. It's about welcoming them, but it's also about protecting them. For example, our group welcomes the provision that every participant in a reception service or institution must be subject to strict control of his or her criminal history. As you know, one of our amendments adopted in committee was to clarify that the criminal record of ESA staff in contact with children must be reviewed "at regular intervals". Indeed, while there is an urgent need to address the unacceptable acts of violence against children in their places of refuge, we need to put in place the necessary control measures to better protect them. For the same purpose, we propose the appointment of a reference educator responsible for the educational follow-up of the child, in order to better accompany minors placed at the hotel in emergency procedures. Indeed, we believe that the derogation from hotel accommodation must be accompanied by a socio-educational framework, because its absence seriously compromises the path and prospects for the integration of protected young people – the measure is all the more necessary given that there are significant disparities between the departments. In committee, we also discussed the issue of young adults leaving social assistance for children and the phenomenon of a dry exit. While, according to INSEE, the average age of a young person leaving the family home is 23.6 years, we currently expect young people in difficulty to be self-sufficient from the age of 18. We therefore propose that minors be notified and not merely considered, the conditions for their support towards autonomy at the time of the interview, which takes place no later than one year before their majority, in order to better prepare for the exit from the ESA. Mr. Secretary of State, our concern and your desire that a supportive solution be offered to every young child welfare worker who has become a major child welfare worker have been heard. You have tabled an amendment to that effect; We will support him. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group, on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups, as well as on the panel bench]] Our group therefore welcomes the progress proposed in this text and will be able to make a proposal to enrich it, while retaining as its sole objective the defence of the best interests of the child. Marguerite Duras wrote that "there is always something left of childhood"; collectively, let us improve the memories of these children who are weakened by life and too often abused.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u60	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u61	With more than 300,000 children each year benefiting from a child protection measure, it seemed essential to address this major issue. This bill, which seeks to improve the conditions for the reception and daily life of children receiving these services, was therefore welcome. I regret, however, that it is part of such a timetable, following the passage of a bioethics bill whose interest in children can be called into question. As with this bill passed last month, I would have liked it to be "respect for the best interests of the child" in this text, which is not even included in Title I. However, common sense mechanisms, such as the possibility of a child being welcomed by a family member or a trusted third party, should be welcomed. The Commission's work, which paved the way for consultation with the child concerned, was a valuable addition, although it would be preferable to define more fully the elements necessary for the recognition of the child's discernment. As pointed out in a recent INED report – the National Institute for Demographic Studies – "the management of the child's level of information is an integral issue in child protection. Children are not involved in the decisions that affect them, so they are not able to cope with these placements. That is why I regret that the bill does not take the issue of siblings into account at any time. "It is very important to be able to keep your brothers and sisters with you when you are placed, for support and because it creates bonds," said the director-general of the Children's Action Foundation. In the best interests of the child, it therefore seems legitimate to plead for the preservation of fraternal unity in the institutions in which the children are placed. That is what I will propose in my turn through an amendment, following several of my colleagues who have done so in committee. I am also surprised that the Government wants to uphold the competence of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health instead of strengthening the departmental level, which has experience in the field, which knows the actors and which has been managing child protection for some years now. In the same way, I am surprised to see the opinion of the High Health Authority interfere with the national framework for assessing situations of risk for the protection of children. Is this not in contradiction with the Code of Social Action and Families, under which the president of the departmental council is responsible for the collection, processing and evaluation of information of concern about minors at risk or who may be at risk? But it was especially on the issue of unaccompanied minors that I wanted to draw the Government's attention. Subcontracting the management of unaccompanied minors to the departments by allocating them throughout the country, at a time when the rate of acceptability of immigration is increasingly low, is a matter of pure cynicism. Beyond the budgetary logic that the Government is concerned with, such policies help to encourage the illegal arrival of these minors. The deployment of care facilities, while very few deportations to the border of persons illegally residing in the territory were carried out, was a lax signal sent to clandestine networks. Thus, smugglers are invited to pursue their abominable business. Moreover, the costs of taking care of these minors are only growing: Senator Arnaud Bazin points out that when he was head of the Val-d'Oise Departmental Council in 2011, just over 3 million euros were spent on these young people, compared to more than 40 million euros today. This is a significant budget, particularly when looking at the large number of fraudsters making themselves known as minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u62	It's always the same patterns, it's infernal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u63	In a written question I had addressed in March 2021 to the Ministry of the Interior, which has still not answered it, I pointed out that the young people who make themselves known as minors are most frequently found to be of age. Of the 939 requests made to countries related to the origin of the offenders, 96 per cent of the 229 returns of identifications received revealed that the so-called foreign minors were lying about their age and were in fact major. Protecting children, Secretary of State, first of all, is to check that those who are taken care of are indeed minors. Protecting children means ensuring that hundreds of foreign children are not encouraged to come and cannot be cared for decently. Protecting children is a promise that, as far as possible, they will not be separated from their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u64	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u65	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your interventions, in which I will provide some quick answers, without prolonging our debates. We will have the opportunity to return to a number of points that you have raised. This text is indeed expected, as you pointed out, Mrs Six, but it is true that it does not solve all the problems. Indeed, as I told you in committee – and I am a former parliamentarian – the law does not solve everything. This text is the legislative component of a three-year strategy for the prevention and protection of children; That's the one he needs to be appreciated for. You refer to Article 3, which deals with the prohibition of placement in the hotel, stressing that additional means will be necessary. No doubt you know, Madam Member, that in the context of a contract with your department, the department of the North, the State has allocated EUR 6.4 million to child protection policy for the year 2020. Of this amount, 1.1 million is earmarked for the creation of new places and 1.3 million for the creation of home-based support schemes for children. With regard to the systematic presence of a lawyer, which some of you have wanted, we will have the opportunity to come back to this during our debates – probably after Article 7, since it is here that the amendments have been tabled. In any event, it is not the child who represents and defends her own interests, Member. The Office of the Children's Judge is specific: it is the Office which guarantees the best interests of the child. I'm coming to your speech, Mrs. Dubie. You are right, specialized prevention is an integral part of child protection. The State also provides funding to departments within the framework of the National Strategy for the Prevention and Combating of Poverty, to develop and continue to support this policy. The last inter-ministerial committee of cities also provided for the financing by the State – and not by the departments, whose competence it is – of 300 new posts in the field of specialized prevention. As far as family assistants are concerned, you are right: not everything is included in the law. But you know we've been in collective bargaining for eight months with the profession. Some of the legislative arrangements resulting from the consultation are contained in the legislation, as you have pointed out. Other provisions relating in particular to the re-engineering of diplomas, training and valorisation of the allowance for the care of a child with disabilities do not fall within the legislative sphere and therefore come in addition to this legislation. I made a commitment in the Committee on Social Affairs to provide you with more precise information on this non-legislative aspect; I will have the opportunity to do so when we discuss articles 8 et seq., which deal with family assistants. Beyond family assistants, we are considering improving the quality of life at work for social workers. Mathieu Klein, well known to several parliamentarians and former chairman of the Meurthe-et-Moselle departmental council, has just been appointed new president of the High Council for Social Work (HCTS). I have no doubt that the latter will make a useful contribution to advancing this issue. Mr Ruffin, I am delighted to see that a large part of your speech overlapped with a large part of mine, on the notion of a link. I know your commitment and your thoughts on this, as well as on the commitment of children. You were able to see that this was a thread in my speech when I introduced the text. Mrs Faucillon, juvenile justice has been provided with additional resources which, since the announcement made by Nicole Belloubet, are beginning to deploy in the territories, with seventy additional children's judges and about one hundred clerks for children's courts. As for the shortage of family assistants, we see it as you do; All departmental presidents are faced with it. It is in order to counteract it that we have carried out the work that leads us, in order to value their commitment, to improve their status. I will not dwell on the subject of child psychiatry, which the Government has made a priority since the presentation by Agnès Buzyn of the roadmap for mental health and psychiatry in 2018: I do not go back to the amounts invested, nor to the creation in 2018-2019 of ten posts of assistant heads of clinic in child psychiatry. As I told you in committee, an important part of the mental health foundation, which will be held next September, will also be devoted to child psychiatry, in accordance with the stated will of the President of the Republic. I would also like to repeat, Mrs Faucillon, after having said this in presenting the text, that no young adult leaving ESA will be left without a solution from now on. An amendment tabled by the Government after article 3 provides that the youth guarantee will be systematically offered to them and that those who remain without a solution will necessarily be offered a major young contract. The State has therefore assumed its responsibilities since 2018 by giving priority access to common law mechanisms – scholarships, student housing – and today it goes further. We have worked with departments to provide a solution for all young people who leave child welfare. I welcome, Mrs Faucillon – I had done so in committee but you were not present – an amendment that you had defended with the rapporteur and with other parliamentarians, aimed at prohibiting the double assessment of unaccompanied young minors. Again, I would like to highlight the progress that you have made. I come to Mr. Ramadier's speech. I've already answered about the lawyer's assistance. As regards the delays encountered in the implementation of the measures, in particular AEMO, it is in particular through the creation of places that we will be able to respond to them. We will have the opportunity to come back in our debates on this problem which is not new. I thank you, Mrs Goulet, for insisting on Article 1 – no doubt the one with the most powerful potential for transformation – concerning trustworthy third parties. I said it in committee: one third of the letters I receive to the ministry, concerning the ESA, come from family members – grandparents, uncles – who do not understand why their grandson or nephew was placed when they could have taken care of them. Article 1 will respond to these situations. I also thank you for insisting on local governance, which is fundamental. We have already taken an important first step in committee by strengthening the missions of the departmental child protection observatories. We will debate it again, but I sincerely believe that we must also give the Senate the opportunity to make its contribution. As for the long-awaited rates of supervision, you have noted that they fall within the regulatory area. The National Council for Child Protection has worked on this. I pledge that this time, before the end of the year, the decree can really be published. Mrs Santiago, I fully agree with you on the prevention side, of course. That was one of the important points in my opening remarks. Training and a culture common to all professionals around children are necessary, as you have pointed out. That is the meaning of the High Health Authority's reference that I propose to include in the law, in Article 6. I also agree with you about the need to create perhaps one day a children's code. To tell you everything, we started working on it, but we had to prioritize the subjects. Anyway, he's at the top of the stack on a desk and we can talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u66	It's almost 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u67	Mr Christophe, I welcome the work you have done in the Northern Department, which has fed our thinking. This department is part, like the Seine-Saint-Denis, of those whom we look at with particular interest, as the stakes are numerous. You also stressed the need for the trusted third party to be accompanied. It seems to me that we all agree on this point; An amendment to rewrite Article 1 will be defended for this purpose by the Government, the rapporteur and several of you. You will also defend an amendment, Mr Christophe, which provides that during the preparation for autonomy interview, ESA will notify the child of the rights to which it has access. This is an important amendment to which we will give a favourable opinion. Finally, Mrs Lorho, I will not go back to all of your comments, but would like to point out that, with regard to fraternities, you have probably misread the text and the amendments, and have not listened to my speech: I will indeed defend an amendment prohibiting separation, except in the event that the interests of the child so require. Thank you again for your interventions, ladies and gentlemen. We can now start discussing the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u68	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u69	On Amendments Nos 625 and 625, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u70	The use of a trustworthy third party – a grandparent, uncle or aunt – instead of placement makes consensus. Yesterday I was at Abbeville's social child's house (MECS), where a child was wondering: why wasn't it offered to his grandpa to keep him? Could he have stayed with him, even though his grandmother had died in the meantime? Around the table, there was a consensus among educators, the director and the department's cadre in favour of this solution. There was also consensus that, when such a measure was taken, the family had to be accompanied: it was necessary to verify that it would be able to support the child, but also that its balance would be maintained. As such, I do not understand why our group's amendments proposing open-ended educational support were considered inadmissible. It reveals, in my view, the ambiguity of the text: it is a catalogue of good intentions, with magnificent goals, but without armed arms, without funding and without means to achieve it. Yet there are laws, and even very beautiful texts. The difficulty is to see their provisions translated into reality. The Children's Project (CPP) has been in existence for more than a decade but in most cases is not implemented. In a departmental centre for children and the family where I visited, out of about fifteen children, only one had benefited. Mandatory maintenance at 17 years of age is often organised at 17 years and 10 months, just before exit. As for the Committees for the Assessment of the Situation and Status of Children in Custody (CESSEC), many departments do not have such committees. The reception contract is generally not implemented with the family assistants, as I was able to see when I went to one of them yesterday. And then the main black spot is that ASE referents fall under the file while they play a pivotal role for children but also for family assistants. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] In other words, the state makes laws, but it does not finance, supervise and control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u71	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u72	Gabriel was three years old. Eight reports of violence against minors had been made, without results. On Thursday, July 1, he was beaten to death by his mother's companion. The rescue arrived too late to save him from the ill-treatment he suffered in his home. Each year, in La Réunion, about 4,500 worrying information is collected. Last year, half involved children in danger, 23 per cent involved physical violence and 30 per cent involved sexual violence. It should be added that 13.7% of the reports made concern children under the age of 2. According to the Department, 80 per cent of domestic violence or violence against a child is accompanied by an addiction to alcohol, zamal or Artane. In each class, 2 to 3 children are reported to be victims of incest in their families, i.e. more than 4000 children, while only 0.6 per cent of the executioners are concerned about child abuse. We have had six infanticides in eight years and I would like to dedicate our work to all these children who are victims of the system's shortcomings. To Matheo, Elianna, Sully, Clement, Benjamin and Gabriel, we owe worthy debates. Mr Secretary of State, I am the voice of the associations for the defence of abused children. Their expectations, like those of the overseas countries in general, remain insufficiently addressed in this text. Because this is the nerve of war, we strongly demand additional human and financial resources for child protection services. Departments need to be better assisted in promoting effective collaboration with associations in the field. It is important to facilitate the initiation of an investigation as soon as the first report of violence against minors is received. Every drama is too much drama. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LR, SOC and IUD-I groups]] We also ask for the telephone reception of 119 so that it can also be done in Creole Réunion, the mother tongue of 80% of the island's population. These various requests will, I hope, lead to a careful listening on your part and a quick response, so that tomorrow Gabriel will not be subjected to a series of violence leading to death.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u73	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u74	The number of children placed on child welfare almost doubled in 20 years to 340,000, while the number of foster families decreased, due inter alia to changes in the family model: from 50,000 in 2012 to 40,000 or fewer. These 340,000 children in care are 340,000 different stories. Whether they come from a family in financial difficulty, whether they are unaccompanied minors, persons with disabilities or victims of domestic violence, both these children and all children are under our responsibility, as provided for in our Constitution. It is our duty, as legislators, to ensure that every child has the right to a preserved childhood that promotes his or her development and development. Article 1 provides for the obligation of educational services to examine the placement of a minor with a family member or a trusted third party before the judge comes, if he considers it necessary, to issue a placement order. This solution is still far too marginal while it represents a secure option for children: in 2019, more than 68,000 were placed by ESA; they are only 4000 to have been entrusted to a trustworthy third party and less than 1500 to a member of their family. This bill also provides us with an opportunity to discuss the issues of parenting, the fight against the precarious situation of children raised in poverty, the care of children with disabilities, and the role of associations in preventing and combating violence. I would like to alert our House to the need for a systematic consideration of children's rights in our work so that they become a true compass of our public policies. To ensure that these rights are respected in all circumstances, I call, with the support of many of my colleagues, for the creation of a parliamentary delegation on the rights of the child to give equal opportunities to all children and to make their voices heard without discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u75	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u76	A little over two and a half years ago, one of our colleagues came to me in a hallway to tell me that she could not get custody of her nephews and nieces placed. His statement was a shock to me: everyone would tend to think that a parliamentarian is considered a person of trust able to accommodate children; Well, no, a judge thought it was better to use the placement solution. As part of our information mission, Alain Ramadier and I proposed to make it compulsory to explore the solution of recourse to trusted third parties before considering any placement. And thank you, Secretary of State, for taking up this idea. This provision will be a powerful lever. The child, when placed – I know that some of my colleagues do not like this word, it is always that it is the one that everyone understands – lives a tear: he loses his landmarks, sometimes his friends, while he is brought to live in a place where he has no room of his own, whose codes he does not know, alien to the people he will be brought to touch. Any other is the reception within his own family because it is then possible for him to maintain a family bond and to rely on a relative who can help him in a period of upheaval. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the point of convergence that we found in this article, which I welcome, we will have to continue to work. We have an interest in ensuring that the assessment of trusted third parties is identical throughout France. Why not establish a national repository of worrying information by extending it to trustworthy third parties? It is also important to reconsider the notion of discernment: from one judge to another, the age limits vary, for some, 8 years, for others 13 years, for others 6 years. That's too subjective. Finally, I would like to stress the need for constant consultation with the child because a trustworthy third-party or family care project can only be successful with the child's consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u77	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u78	If I have asked for the floor at this stage of our debate, it is that the adoption of Amendment No 625 by Mrs Pételle, which we are about to consider, and which proposes a total rewrite of Article 1, would bring down all the other amendments tabled on the Article, which we cannot therefore defend. In France, social assistance for children unfortunately has a bad reputation. She is often accused of being the antechamber of street life. She is rarely known for her achievements, though very real, if we believe the testimony of many children who have grown up. In my amendment No 204, I propose a common-sense measure: if the placement of a child has taken place as part of an emergency measure, the payment of the maintenance and education benefits of the child in care will automatically be returned to the person in charge of the child, pending a court decision. It is a matter of making a simple possibility an obligation by making automatic the payment of these benefits to the person in charge of the child. It is also a measure of social justice, both for the person who cares for the child and who obviously has to deal with certain expenses, and for the child himself, who is the recipient of the aid because it is to ensure his or her well-being that they are paid. Finally, I had tabled Amendment No 398 which was unfortunately declared inadmissible for reasons which I find difficult to understand. It was intended to systematize the use of educational measures in an open environment when the trusted third party or family member to whom the child is entrusted wishes to do so. Helping the trusted person is often the most direct way to effectively assist the child in his or her care. I must say that when I read Mrs Pételle's amendment, I was able to see that this provision had been incorporated into the rewriting of her proposed Article 1, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u79	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 625, 638, 662 and 698. Amendment No 625 is the subject of five sub-amendments, Nos. 764, 766, 767, 768 and 761. I call Mrs Petelle, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u80	This global rewrite of Article 1 is the result of our discussions in committee and my wish to find a common wording. First, it proposes a mechanism to ensure appropriate and proportionate support when the child is entrusted to the trustworthy third party or a member of his or her family, so that it can be an AEMO, a reference, or the intervention of an authorized association. This variety allows for accompaniment adapted to the situations of children welcomed by a trusted third party. It also provides for a mediated visit, when the judge so decides, to facilitate safe access, including when the family situation is difficult. Finally, it introduces an amendment to the wording of the initial provisions which reflects the proposals put forward in committee by our colleague Jeanine Dubie: it is a question of replacing the word "investment" with the word "reception" and the words "ordering an investment" with the word "trust". After thorough verification, it appears that this welcome change in terminology does not have a harmful impact on other provisions of the Code, but we needed to make sure. Amendments Nos 54 and 65 by Mrs Dubie will therefore be satisfied with this wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u81	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 638.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u82	This amendment, identical to those tabled in unison by the rapporteur, Mrs Goulet and Mrs Limon, aims to accurately reflect the discussions we have had in committee on the interests of the child. It aims to avoid stigmatizing it through the terms used. This may seem like a pure semantic debate, but we only know too well the importance of words in everyday life. We are committed to supporting those who welcome these children so that they can succeed in this mission full of humanity that is in some way necessary for them. They could be weakened by pressure from parents. So many common-sense arguments in favour of this rewriting that we fully support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u83	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 662.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u84	My group has tabled the same general rewrite amendment. To substitute the verb "confer" to that of "place" seems to me to be a good step forward, in the continuity of what Jacqueline Dubie had suggested in committee. In addition, the situation of children who are going to live with a family member is better suited. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Having said that, in my personal capacity, I believe that this rewriting still poses some problems and I hope that the parliamentary shuttle will allow it to evolve, particularly with regard to the words "capable of discernment". In my view, every child must be heard, whether or not he is capable of discernment. This should not be left to the judge's discretion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u86	Finally, reception is not simple for either the child or the person to whom it is entrusted. Care must be taken to support this new family. Limiting it to a child welfare focal point or a private or public body does not necessarily seem sufficient. When I was talking about global accompaniment, I was thinking about psychological, social and even financial accompaniment. I will share my proposals so that the Senate can move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u87	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor to support Amendment No. 698.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u88	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the child is welcomed in good condition by a family member or a trusted third party. It makes four main changes. First, the term "placement" appears to be negative and stigmatizing for children benefiting from child protection measures. The fact of "trusting" a child demonstrates a positive approach to protection, so it is proposed, like the terms used for the adoption of a ward of the State or a child residing abroad, to delete the reference to the term placement. Furthermore, the amendment is intended to replace the child's opinion collection with a more protective hearing, since it does not make the judge's decision dependent on the child's opinion but stresses the importance of hearing the child before any decision is taken. In addition, the designation of a referent is not systematic when the child is placed by the juvenile judge with a family member or a trusted third party, whereas it is in the event of a lasting reception of the child with a third party volunteer. The amendment therefore provides that a family member or trusted third party shall also be assisted by a reference, either by child welfare or by an association involved in the field of child protection. The focal point will also be responsible for developing the project for the child. Finally, the exercise of the right of access may sometimes conflict between the parents and the person to whom the child was entrusted. The intervention of a third party mediator may be necessary to enable the effectiveness of this right. The purpose of this amendment is to enable the judge to entrust the child welfare service or the department responsible for the entry into force of the measure, pursuant to article 375-2 of the Civil Code, with accompanying the minor for the exercise of the right of access.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u89	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support sub-amendment No. 764 to Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u90	This sub-amendment, the rapporteur, contains four proposals for amendments: two on substance and two on form. The first is to replace the concept of the best interests of the child with that of urgency. Indeed, the notion of urgency induces an interpretation that can vary according to the actors, the situations and the territories. The best interests of the child should therefore be given priority. The second amendment proposes that the child should always be heard, whether or not he or she is capable of discernment. I am convinced that, in order to clarify the judge's decision, the child must be able to be heard at the hearing. Finally, I propose two editorial changes: the first is to remove negative sentences so that the judge has full control of his decisions and the second is to maintain the concept of placement instead of replacing it with that of reception. Indeed, from the child's point of view, this is indeed a placement and it is important to retain this formulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u91	I call Mrs Maud Petit to support sub-amendment No. 766.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u92	I will go in the same direction as my colleague Guillaume Chiche: the notion of urgency has too vague outlines, which can lead to difficulties of interpretation, to the detriment of the interests of the child. On the other hand, the principle of the best interests of the child, introduced in 1989 by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child (ICRC), which enshrines a long legal evolution of these rights, should be preferred. The wording I propose would also place the judge at the heart of the decision, specifying the conditions for its means of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u93	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support sub-amendment No 767.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u94	The aim is to clarify that these provisions must be made in the best interests of the child. In addition, I wonder about the continuation of the amendment which provides that a "respondent of the Child Welfare Service or a public or private body authorized under the conditions set out in articles L. 313-8, L. 313-8-1 and L. 313-9 informs and accompanies the family member or trustworthy person to whom the child was entrusted. This seems very inadequate to me and I would prefer that the accompaniment be more formalised. There is a 90% risk that this part will be zapped in reality and that no support will be provided for the child's care – which is not always self-evident in the home. Who will monitor the proper implementation of these measures? We will live, during these two to three days of examination of the text, in a kind of fiction, which is called the law, and which consists of believing that it is enough to change a few small words so that they become reality! No doubt, in some places, departments will do the job well because they will have the means or the will to do it; But in 90% of cases, things will not happen as we wish. The State does not assume its responsibilities as it does not create an independent body to monitor the implementation of these provisions and to assist communities in their implementation. Do you think what we will vote in this House will turn into reality, by magic? I'm not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u95	I call Mr Bernalicis to support sub-amendment No 768.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u96	My remarks will be somewhat redundant with one of the previous speeches, but I will continue to push the nail to argue on the issue of the child's hearing, provided only when the child is capable of discernment. What is strange is that, a contrario, the judge who would like to hear a child unable to discern would, in the end, not be in the nails. It's amazing, though! If he wants to hear it, he must be able to do it and exchange it with him. The writing seems to me to be risky. The question of whether or not the child is discerning arises first before the judge questions whether or not to listen to the child. Let us stop the question by saying that it is relevant to listen to the child and that it is necessary to do so: this does not mean that the child will decide for himself what his best interests are; the judge will of course retain all of his role and will be able to assert the best interests of the child. I also hope that the child will be able to be accompanied by a lawyer, thanks to the obligatory representation that many of us wish on all benches. I do not understand, basically, why you want to retain this wording according to which the judge hears the child only if he is capable of discernment. I do not understand the basic philosophy, unless, given the number of cases, the number of children's judges and the limited resources available to them, you were afraid that they would be overwhelmed if they were to hear all the children. If that's the reason, it's a real problem! Either you have relevant arguments to maintain this writing – in this case, let's discuss it – or we remove this mention that doesn't look like a big world. Fortunately, we have tabled sub-amendments because, with your rewriting amendment, these debates would have come to a standstill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u97	I call Mr Bruno Studer to support sub-amendment No. 761.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u98	I would like to look back on what Mr Perrine Goulet said earlier. Following the ratification by France in 1989 of CIDE, the Act of 8 January 1993 introduced a general principle of hearing minors in article 388-1 of the Civil Code. Thus, both internationally and nationally, two criteria are decisive in the right of the child to express himself or herself in court: first, the minor must be involved in the proceedings and, second, he or she must have discernment. The criterion of discernment is therefore decisive, but the legislator has never risked defining it. Assuming that discernment corresponds to a measurable stage of development, its study requires a thorough examination, whereas it is the urgency that characterizes the situation of the children concerned. The assessment of discernment therefore amounts to the judge's free interpretation and therefore to disparate practices. In practice, the judge considers any minor over the age of 13 to be gifted with discernment, to the detriment of the youngest. In the case of an educational assistance measure, this procedure falls within the civil and not the criminal framework. The concept of discernment therefore poses a problem in that it originates from criminal law and raises the question of the criminal liability of minors. Thus, to focus on the hearing of the child in civil proceedings is, first of all, to determine whether or not the child is granted a right to be heard by the civil judge. That is why this sub-amendment tends to recognize this right by setting the age limit of 10 years to assume his discernment and allow him to express himself. As a result, as soon as the judge is brought before the court, the court will send the child over 10 years of age a letter informing him of his rights and, second, the child under 10 years of age will also be able to receive the same letter, if he is capable of discernment, at the initiative of the judge or at the request of one of the parties to the proceedings. These proposals include the work and recommendations of multidisciplinary researchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u99	What is the Committee's opinion on these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u100	With regard to the sub-amendments by Mr Guillaume Chiche and Mrs Maud Petit, which the committee did not consider, I will issue an opinion in my personal capacity. As I said in committee, I am opposed to the removal of the emergency condition, which allows rapid response in serious situations of violence. This concept is clear to me; There is nothing to prevent the child from being evaluated in a more serene manner in order to be entrusted to a trusted third party or to a member of his or her family. The sub-amendments of Mr Ugo Bernalicis and Mr Bruno Studer concern the concept of discernment. You are proposing, Mr Studer, to move from a criterion of discernment to an age criterion that you set at 10 years. In doing so, you deeply upset one of the fundamental principles of the civil law of minors that allows you to appreciate according to the circumstances and abilities of the child and you create effects on the edge that we do not necessarily master. Rather, let us trust the children's judge, who has developed real expertise and jurisprudence on this subject. An age limit set by the legislator could lead to other side effects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u102	I express an unfavorable opinion on all the sub-amendments and in favour of the unmodified amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u103	You don't want to change them, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u104	I'll explain why, Mr. Bernalicis. With regard to the rewrite amendments, you were present in committee – and I welcome your active participation in the debates – and we agreed on several points and on the need to reach a final text, together, on the various aspects of Article 1. We also agreed on the need for support, Mrs Ménard: at present, in practice, when the judge appoints a trustworthy third party and, in 10% of cases, placement measures, usually an AEMO measure is already planned. But we agreed – while, unless I was mistaken, you were not in committee – that it was necessary to take a broader approach and not to limit the judge's appointment of a trusted third party to the association of an AEMO measure. The article as drafted today makes available to the judge a panel of measures. Moreover, to reply to Mrs Goulet, support could include a psychological and not just a social component – it is already possible today and it will be possible tomorrow, of course. As for the financial aspect, an allocation is already granted to the trustworthy third party, between 350 and 450 euros depending on the departments. Finally, let us be clear: the assessment of the emergency is more a matter for the child welfare services than for the judge, who will rule ex post. But this notion of urgency, which can explain the exception made to the systematic search for a third of the trust to which the child is entrusted, is necessary: when a child who is the victim of violence has to be removed from his or her home on Friday night, in order to prevent a threat to his or her life, and entrust him or her to a third party, there is no time to look for a trustworthy third party who can take care of him or her. This research can be carried out in a second phase, but the concept of urgency must be preserved for the benefit of the child. On the other hand, I assure you, Maud Petit, the judge is always guided by the best interests of the child in the decisions that he or she makes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u105	At least we hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u106	As far as discernment is concerned, on which there are several sub-amendments, including that of Mr Studer, I think there is a bad assessment or even a lack of understanding. One of you – Mr Studer I believe – mentioned the exceptional nature of the notion of discernment in this article. But not at all! The concept of discernment appears several times in the Code of Civil Procedure and not only in the Code of Criminal Procedure where the criterion of age of discernment is set at 13 years – when you propose to set it at 10 years in the Civil Code. But, I repeat, this concept appears in various places: the decree of 15 March 2002 introduced, in article 1182 of the Code of Civil Procedure, discernment as a criterion for the hearing of the minor before the juvenile judge. This reference is in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of the CIDE, as you referred to Mr Studer. In fact, the Children's Advocate, in an annual report, states that the concept of discernment "includes the ability of the child to understand what is happening, to understand the situation he is experiencing, to be able to express his feelings about it. Case law has made it clear that it should be understood as the intellectual capacity to understand the meaning and issues of the procedure. You will therefore understand that, in the absence of discernment, there is no reason to question whether or not to audition the child, nor whether his or her speech is taken into account, since he or she does not have the intellectual capacity to understand the issues of the procedure. Ms. Goulet stated that the assessment of the ability to discern differed from one judge to another; In reality, it differs from one child to another. Everyone will recognize that discernment – which is, I repeat, the intellectual ability to understand the stakes of the procedure – can vary according to the children; It is up to the judge to appreciate it. Let us not freeze this notion in the law – for if we set the age of discernment at 10 years, Mr Studer, it would mean that the judge will no longer hear children under 10 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u107	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u108	Yes, that's what that means. He can always do it, but that's what it means. Once again, the notion of discernment is common in civil proceedings, and it has a meaning: it is linked to the child's intellectual ability to understand the stakes of the situation. It must be left to the judge's discretion, because it depends, I repeat, on every child – and not on every judge. For these reasons, my opinion is against the sub-amendments and is in favour of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u109	I have before me many requests for the floor, which I shall give the floor to, because the debate concerns many amendments. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u110	For following the committee's debates from a distance, I find that the proposed reformulation does not take into account the comments made there. I find it difficult to grasp the wording of the first paragraph "unless urgent, the judge cannot entrust the child...": it is convoluted and creates doubt. You referred earlier to emergency situations, Mr Secretary of State, such as serious violence. Unfortunately, we know that emergencies do not always result in a rapid placement order, and that the child's file can remain for several weeks – this is the state of affairs – in the judge's office as well as in ESA. Worse – and it's not chipping – the proposed wording, using a negative twist, prevents the judge from making an order and entrusting the child. On the other hand, the reference to "unless urgent" is extremely vague legally. You have certainly cited illustrations of them, but the life of the ESA is made of urgency, and nothing comes here to clarify the character of them. Finally, I repeat, the current wording implies that the judge cannot entrust a child until the assessment – which can be lengthy – has been carried out. I believe that even in the absence of a serious emergency, the judge should not be prevented from ordering a placement, when the ESA's investigation is too long. That is why I will abstain from the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u111	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u112	I had made a wish in committee, and I am glad to see that it has been heard: it is a positive signal, even if it does not in itself solve difficult situations. Thank you, rapporteur, for having accepted my request to abandon the term "placement": you place an object or money, but you entrust and welcome a child. Since the following amendments are due to fall, I shall withdraw Amendments Nos 65 and 54 in advance; This will prevent them from being sacrificed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u113	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u114	I share Elsa Faucillon's discomfort regarding the wording "unless urgent, the judge cannot entrust the child...". Moreover, we are not alone in having this doubt, since the Defender of Rights expresses the same questions, and that the association Repairs! alerted us. From now on, in order to obtain a placement in a home or elsewhere, the judge will, in some way, have to make an exceptional law. The identification and evaluation of a trusted third party requires resources. Who does it, and how long does it take? If the necessary means are not mobilised, the case can take long weeks, during which time the child is left in a very uncomfortable juice. I always come back to the same question: in fact, what means are used to achieve the intended purpose? Some believe that a child lacks discernment until he or she reaches the sufficiently high age of 10 years. You add, Mr. Secretary of State, that his ability to discern must be assessed on a case-by-case basis by the judge. But how will this one do it if he doesn't listen to the child? The kids are still the first involved in this case! Even when they are very young, they can express things about their families and tell them how they feel. I therefore hope that the child will have to be heard by the judge, so that his or her word will be heard, and that the judge will then be responsible for measuring the degree of confidence that he or she can give to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u115	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u116	You are committed to the notion of urgency, but child welfare policy is by its very nature an emergency policy. It is therefore important to include the best interests of the child in article 1. As you explain yourself, Secretary of State, the notion of urgency is generally appreciated by the ESA, before being assessed by the judge. Why limit the latter's ability to appreciate the urgency, when, in fact, he does not like it on a daily basis? You also state that the ability to discern is assessed on a case-by-case basis, as a child per child. I believe that the same is true of the emergency nature: it is assessed on a case-by-case basis, as a child per child. It is therefore preferable to invoke the best interests of the child, rather than to refer to the urgency. I will conclude with a clarification which may seem merely editorial, but which will have significant consequences in fact: the reformulation of the article with a negative twist – "the judge can entrust the child [...] only after evaluation [...]" – binds the judge in a carcan. It would be preferable to remove this denial, and to indicate that, in the best interests of the child, the judge has the possibility to order a placement. The judge sovereignly appreciates the urgency and must have the fullest possible room for manoeuvre in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u117	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u118	I was hoping to defend Amendment No 71, but since it will fall, I will say a word about it now. Mr Secretary of State, you have found too many amendments by all Members to be inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u119	It's not him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u120	Of my ten amendments, seven have been struck, and one eighth will fall. However, you claim to make the child a subject of law, and that was the ambition of my amendments, which were rejected. There are subjects that disturb; They reveal the incoherence of judges' decisions, the non-compliance with laws, the rights of children and parents, the lack of visibility regarding the financial management of ESA in the departments, the unqualified supervision of pupils or the tragedy of too many children unjustly separated from their families, without a danger being identified. As Sébastien Nadot has so well observed, you forget the child's interest. In my amendment, I proposed that a judge who must rule on the placement of a child and remove him or her from his or her home, changing his or her life forever, should not only hear him or her, but take his or her word into account, and know the situation as the child is able to explain it. On 26 January 1990, France ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, article 12 of which states: "States parties shall guarantee to a child who is capable of discernment the right to express his or her views freely on any matter affecting him or her, with due regard to the child's age and maturity. To this end, the child shall be given the opportunity to be heard in any judicial or administrative proceedings affecting him or her [...]. A placement is a very violent act for a child, a shock that will affect his or her entire life. It is therefore essential that he be able to participate fully in the decision to place him and express himself on his future, his conditions of education and physical, emotional, intellectual and social development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u121	We must conclude, Mr. Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u122	Therefore, the judge, unless urgent, must not be able to go against the wish of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u123	Mr Bruno Studer has the floor for a quick statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u124	Since the Secretary of State has presented Article 1 as the axis around which the revolution of child protection takes place, it is natural that we should take the time to discuss it. I did not say that the notion of discernment was absent from civil law, but that it came from criminal law, which can only question us. On the other hand, my subamendment would not prevent the judge from hearing a child under the age of 10. At the end of paragraph 4, I propose that the words "able to discern" be replaced by the words "able to discern" and that the same paragraph be supplemented by the following sentence: "The judge may notify the child under the age of 10 of his or her right to be heard, either on his or her own initiative or at the request of one of the parties to the proceedings. » Perhaps this change is too important to be introduced by a sub-amendment, but we have little other option to move forward, in time. We need to debate the notion of discernment. I would add that this sub-amendment is the result of the work of a Public Interest Grouping (PIG), the research mission for law and justice; So it doesn't fall out of nowhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u125	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u126	Since my amendment No 430 is going to fall, I would like to refer to it quickly, stressing the best interests of the child. Recall that in the emergency, the juvenile judge does not see the children, since it is the prosecutor's office that carries out the emergency placement. In article 1, the words "in the best interests of the child" could be added, because the judge, including for assessment with trusted third parties or the family, would intervene in a second stage, which was much longer, sometimes far too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u127	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u128	Why insist on the notion of discernment? Indeed, this concept exists elsewhere, but there are also many cases, especially in criminal cases, where children, even young children, are heard. Their words are listened to, even if they are considered not necessarily " discerning" in the sense that you indicate, because they have been victims of rape or assault. They even pass through the pediatric medical and judicial units that you wanted to develop, and there their word counts. I ask here that the child be heard because it is important for the judge to know the views and feelings of the child, regardless of age, whether the child wants to go to that trustworthy third party. Moreover, the accompaniment can only be adapted in the light of what the judge can assess. The notion of discernment must really evolve in the coming days in order for Article 1 to have its full meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u129	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 625, 638, 662 and 698.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u130	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 79 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u131	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-06-E1004.u132	Next meeting at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the Child Protection Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
