ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u2	Mr Bertrand Sorre, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1203, concerning the Granville-Mont-Saint-Michel aerodrome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u3	Mr President, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all, since I have the honour to open the first sitting of 2021, to express my best wishes to you and to all the staff of the National Assembly. May this year be the most beautiful year for all, and allow us to return to a less constrained life. Together with several of my elected colleagues from the English Channel, I had asked the Minister of the Interior, while he was Minister of Action and Public Accounts, to re-establish a customs border crossing at the Granville-Mont-Saint-Michel airfield, so that he could accommodate international passenger flights from and to countries outside the Schengen area until 2011. The Granville-Mont-Saint-Michel aerodrome, located in Bréville-sur-Mer, in the department of La Manche, could thus once again contribute to increasing the cultural and economic reach of the Mont-Saint-Michel site and its wide area of influence. Its requalification as a border crossing point – PPF – would develop business aviation and tourism for international flights from and to countries outside the Schengen area, an even more strategic issue since Brexit. The scarcity of the clientele of the Anglo-Norman Islands – Jersey, Guernsey and Aurigny –, close by, fifteen minutes away from the flight, had a very negative impact on the local economy and tourism, as our close neighbours in the country left our hotel establishments, our thalassotherapy centres and our golf course known for its 18-hole link on the dunes, the only one in France to face the sea. In June 2019, while he was Minister of Action and Public Accounts, the Minister of the Interior, after examining the issue and the various arguments put forward, had issued a favourable opinion. Given that requalification for FMP would require the re-establishment of a police station at the border and that customs are present locally, he had also engaged in a dialogue with the Ministry of the Interior, which he heads today. I would add that the local authorities are very interested in this aerodrome. In fact, while he was previously a member of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he was taken over by the Conseil départemental de la Manche on 1 January 2021. As for the financing of any facilities necessary to secure the aerodrome, the Conseil départemental de la Manche and the community of communes Granville Terre and Mer are prepared to participate in the compliance investments. Finally, it should be noted that a customs brigade has existed for a long time in Granville, and its officers have already carried out checks at this aerodrome. Can you, Madam Deputy Minister, confirm to me that your department is in favour of the re-establishment of this customs border crossing and indicate to me the timetable for its reopening, which would allow international flights again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u4	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you and all the staff of the National Assembly the best. Member of the European Parliament, I will reply to you on behalf of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gérald Darmanin. As you know, an air border crossing point allows a French airport to host international flights outside Schengen. The Order of 24 October 2017 on the crossing of borders by persons and goods on aerodromes created a national procedure for the formal designation of FMPs, and provides that their list is drawn up by the Minister responsible for immigration, in this case the Minister of the Interior, in consultation with the Minister responsible for customs and the Minister responsible for civil aviation. Such requests for qualification, whether temporary or non-temporary, must be made by aerodrome managers, together with local elected officials. They can also be supported by the deconcentrated services of the State. They must respond to particularly important development issues in terms of the attractiveness of the territory, which you have described perfectly, to needs related to the employment and production pool, but also to the minimum requirements laid down by the Schengen Borders Code – CFS – which involve, in particular, sufficient extra-Schengen traffic, the upgrading of infrastructure by operators and the absence of FMPs capable of absorbing traffic in the vicinity. I understand, of course, the importance you attach to the opening of an air WP to complement the maritime WP already available to Granville, whose status, as you know, was confirmed on 14 July 2020 by publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For our part, we are assessing at this stage the resources needed to open a new WP, which we believe is important, because it will have to meet extremely strict safety criteria. We also note that in its November 2020 report on the reorganisation of DGDDI – Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties – the Court of Auditors did not mention the re-establishment of a PPF in Granville, and that it was not integrated into the 2019 reorganisation, particularly in view of the absence of an attested extra-Schengen traffic forecast and its relative proximity to those of Cherbourg and Dinard. Finally, the current closure of the borders with the United Kingdom in the context of the health crisis does not seem to us to be conducive to the immediate reopening of an air FMP in Granville. As the Minister of the Interior had indicated to you in the course of his previous functions, however, the Government is at your full disposal to continue discussions with local actors on this issue, taking into account, of course, the developments that might emerge once the health crisis is behind us and the closure of the borders has come to an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u6	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to put her question, No. 1206, on the fight against motorised rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u7	Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, allow me to express my best wishes to you and to extend them to the police. The scourge of motorized rodeos still creates serious nuisances and situations of insecurity for the inhabitants of our cities and countryside. In 2018, the proposal for a law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos, adopted unanimously, allowed the development of legislative tools useful for law enforcement to combat these practices. As a result of this parliamentary work, we, together with several members of the majority, continued our discussions with actors on the ground – the mayors, the association Ville &am p; Banlieue, the police and gendarmes – in each of our territories – the Yvelines, in my case. It is clear from this that the law must be extended by other measures, including regulatory measures. We are all convinced that troublemakers should not enjoy any sense of impunity. To that end, the application of the supplementary penalty of confiscation must be systematized. The recent declarations of the keeper of seals on community justice are in this direction. Recently, we had the opportunity to meet with your services and the interdepartmental delegation to road safety on new complementary measures, with a view to ensuring, for example, better traceability of the vehicles used to commit the offences and greater rigour in registering to the DICEM file – declaration and identification of certain motor vehicles – since the act of purchase or rental. In the House, when considering the proposal for a law on global safety, the Minister wanted to inform us of his commitment to strengthen measures to combat motorised rodeos. I would therefore like to ask you again on this subject, on which the expectations of parliamentarians, mayors and internal security forces remain very strong. Could you please go back to the response to motorized rodeos and any new measures planned?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u8	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u9	Madam Member, I also wish you a happy 2021 year. Motorised rodeos are indeed a matter of concern, both in terms of public order and in terms of the safety of road users and public space. Beyond road safety issues, a worrying form of incivility associated with motorized rodeos has a strong sense of insecurity and abandonment in a large part of the population. The legal framework applicable to the fight against motorised rodeos has gradually been enriched, as you have pointed out, by various laws. The Directive on the conditions for the marketing and use of certain motor vehicles provides for the obligation to identify vehicles not subject to approval and for the creation of the automatic processing of personal data called DICEM. In addition, the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos provides – as you know, and for reasons – that participation in a motorised rodeo constitutes an offence, punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of 15,000 euros, as well as several additional penalties, including "the compulsory confiscation of the vehicle used to commit the offence if the person is the owner, or, subject to the rights of the owner in good faith, if he has the free disposition". In order to step up the fight against motorized rodeos, which have not stopped with this law, and as a result of the exchanges we have had on the basis of your work, new legislative measures are envisaged in order to better identify the perpetrators of these offences. The aim is in particular to strengthen the reporting obligations to the administrative authorities of vehicles not subject to approval, the speed of which may, by construction, exceed 25 kilometres per hour. In the same vein, Gérald Darmanin and I plan to make mandatory, in lease agreements for non-licensed equipment, the identification number of the equipment and the vehicle registration number that allows it to be carried. In order to prevent recidivism, it is also envisaged to reduce the time allowed for the abandonment of the vehicles used to commit the offences and left behind, as well as to bring them to destruction upon the finding of such abandonment. At the regulatory and technical level, on the basis of your work, Madam Member, several measures are being examined or applied at the Ministry of the Interior. For example, it is planned to allow municipal police officers to access the DICEM file directly, without the intervention of national police officers or gendarmes, and to require the owner of an unlicensed vehicle to hold an AM driver's licence, or road safety certificate, which includes a module on the risks associated with motorized rodeos. Finally, a prevention campaign aimed at the public most affected by this dangerous practice, particularly the younger ones, will be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, as the parliamentarians asked us to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u10	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 1192, on the industrial hazard alert system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u11	Madam Minister responsible for citizenship, I wish to return to the announcements made by Minister Gérald Darmanin during his visit to Rouen on 24 September, a year after the Lubrizol plant disaster, namely the introduction of various mechanisms for preventing industrial risks and informing the population. Among them was the deployment of a new telephone alert and information system that would allow, to quote the Minister of the Interior, to switch "from siren to cell phone". This new tool would be based on two technologies: cellular broadcasting or cell broadcast, which would transmit an alert message on telephones, and the sending of geo-localized SMS messages directly issued by the State services, containing all the information about the possible disaster and the instructions to be observed. This new tool is obviously very much expected. The minister had indicated that he would be deployed from the second half of 2021 in densely populated or risk-prone areas and then throughout the territory from June 2022 onwards. Could you elaborate on the timing and modalities of its deployment? In which specific territories will the scheme be tested during its first phase? I am elected from the constituency of Nanterre, which has several industrial sites with environmental risks, and I know that the inhabitants who have seized on these issues are, like many French people living in close proximity to such sites, very attentive to the Government's initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u12	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u13	The recent large-scale crises, whether they involve fires, attacks or floods, have highlighted the need for rapid and simultaneous transmission, by the same vector, of the warning signal and the good behaviour to be adopted by citizens in the face of dangers and threats. The widespread use of mobile telephony and mass dissemination by electronic communications operators allow us to address these concerns, provided, of course, that they do not presuppose the installation of a dedicated application. Two technologies are quite complementary to these requirements: geolocalized SMS and cellular broadcasting, also known as cell broadcast – CB. They enable the authorities, through mobile phones, to communicate very quickly with the public when they are in a danger zone, to prevent them from risks at a distance and to provide them with the information necessary to act. Cellular broadcasting technology will form the basis of the upcoming alert system and can be complemented by the geo-localized SMS, as indicated by the Minister of the Interior during the trip you mentioned. Regulatory work is under way; The Ministry of the Interior is working on this, in particular on the possibility of deploying this tool more massively, in particular with the teams of the CCED, the electronic defence communications station, which plays a liaison role with the operators. Once this regulatory framework is fully defined, by the end of January, the ministry's teams will be able to get closer to the operators and start the technical development of the interfaces. In the meantime, the department is working on the development of the employment doctrine of this tool and on the access portal that will trigger it, in the manner you have fully described. The first territories will prefigure the tool, which is expected in its fully operational version by June 2022 across the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u14	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u15	Thank you for your answer, Madam Deputy Minister. I am obviously interested in following up on this deployment, and in particular on regulatory issues. I hope that we can receive regular information from the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u16	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to put his question, No. 1198, concerning the retirement of traders closed during confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u17	I extend my best wishes to each and every one of you. Mr Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health, there is a question which, for the time being, has been absent from our discussions: that of the validation of the retirement quarters of traders whose activity has been affected by an administrative closure. The year 2020 saw two confinements, one of the consequences of which was the administrative closure of many so-called "non-essential" businesses. This is the case of a bookseller in my constituency who had to lower curtains. Beyond the incomprehension of having to give up selling books and major risks for the sustainability of his business, he will be able to validate only one retirement term for 2020. For the record, in calculating a trader's retirement, only the assessed quarters are retained. Contributions are calculated on the basis of a gross income equivalent to 150 times the hourly SMIC, i.e. EUR 10.15 in 2020. To validate four quarters in 2020, it was therefore necessary to contribute on the basis of an income of 6090 euros per year. However, many small traders were unable to reach this income in 2020; They find bitterly that in addition to a hard economic blow, administrative closures and health measures taken to combat the spread of covid-19 will also have an impact on their pensions. This problem arises for 2020, but also for 2021, as the evolution of the epidemic at the beginning of the year raises concerns about the return for some, the continuation for others, of heavy measures with the economic consequences we know about certain activities. Special arrangements have been made for employees with partial unemployment, so that they can continue to validate quarters, but nothing has been planned for small traders who have been – or are still – hit by an administrative closure. Does the Government intend to introduce a similar scheme for traders who suffer losses of social rights that are not within their jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u18	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u19	Allow me to wish you all a good year, since we are still in time to do so. You are calling my attention, Mr Dufrègne, to the risk that artisans and traders, as a result of exceptional closure decisions for health reasons, did not contribute enough in 2020 to validate quarters. You even mentioned the year 2021, given the current situation. You have taken a specific example and I would like to take this opportunity to recall a few points concerning the self-employed, and therefore the bookseller you mentioned. They are subject to minimum contributions, which allow them to validate three quarters for their retirement, regardless of their income level. This system, which we have discussed at other times, is sometimes criticized because of the burdens it creates for self-employed workers with modest incomes; It now demonstrates its relevance to securing social rights in times of crisis. In addition, self-employed workers affected by health measures benefit from exemption from contributions. More specifically, Article 65 of the Third Amending Finance Law for 2020 provides for exemption from contributions of up to EUR 1400 for self-employed workers in the S1 sectors – a restorer for example –, S1 bis – a butcher whose turnover would have decreased by 80 % for example – and S2, which includes booksellers. These exemptions allow pension rights to be maintained as if contributions were actually paid by the self-employed. Taking into account the amounts of exemptions mentioned for self-employed workers in the sectors mentioned, the minimum contribution in 2020 is fully covered by the community. All self-employed workers in the sectors concerned by the health measures thus have the guarantee to validate three quarters in 2020, even if their turnover is zero, without having to pay the related contributions. Despite this important protection, problems remain, including those you raise in your question; Please note that with Alain Griset, the minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, we are working on this in order to identify, in view of the very exceptional situation in France, solutions capable of guaranteeing, in accordance with the principles of our pension system, the maintenance of rights in the event of difficulties connected with health protection measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u20	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor to put his question, No 1202, on alternatives to biocides.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u21	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. In order to deal with the consequences of beet jaundice, on 4 November 2020 Parliament adopted the draft law on the conditions for placing certain plant protection products on the market in the event of a health hazard for sugar beet: we have found that there is no acceptable alternative solution to neonicotinoids to date. In order not to leave farmers unsolved in the face of a ban on the placing on the market of a biocidal product, the Government plans to allocate additional funds for the search for alternatives to plant protection products. In Haute-Marne, a rural department where agriculture plays an important role, farmers seek and develop experimental approaches, especially on field crops, to avoid any biocidal product. These changes in practice bring concrete results in terms of crop protection, yields and adaptation to climate change. But this experimental and participatory research is fully supported by the farms concerned, which bear the cost and risk. These farmers researchers are an opportunity to develop alternatives to plant protection products. It is through their experience that they can bring concrete solutions, consistent with their needs and constraints. They are also key players in the dissemination of these new practices. On the other hand, this participation in agronomic research and the protection of biodiversity must not endanger the economic situation of their holdings. Can you tell me whether part of the research funding can be allocated to these participatory approaches, and how the state plans to accompany these farmers directly in their experiments in order to encourage and widely deploy these living-friendly agricultural practices?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u22	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u23	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Julien Denormandie, who accompanies the President of the Republic to the Eure this morning. I am the spokesman for it, and of course I have worked on the development of the answer. Participatory research approaches respond to our citizens' growing interest in science and their concerns about food, health, the environment, and the climate. Fostering dialogue between research actors and society is a very important issue for the trust of our fellow citizens in science. But these approaches involving farmers are also recognised as a relevant form of agricultural research and development, both at national and European level. You are asking me more precisely the question of financing participatory approaches. At the national level, two calls for projects financed by the "Agricultural and Rural Development" trust account are particularly mobilized for participatory approaches; The call for "innovation and partnership" projects thus mobilised more than €6 million in 2019 and €4.6 million in 2020. We could also talk about farmers' collective projects within economic and environmental interest groups – GIEE – whose credits have gradually increased to nearly 5 million. Furthermore, the European Partnership for Agricultural Innovation links actors from different sectors – scientists, farmers, businesses, communities, associations – so as not to leave farmers alone in the face of these problems. The part of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development enables regions which wish to do so to support, on a project-by-project basis, operational groups working on practical and concrete solutions involving both scientists and actors on the ground. Farmers and the structures which represent them or group them are of course eligible. Within the framework of the national research and innovation programme for the control of sugar beet virosis, certain actions under way include a participative dimension which you draw the Minister's attention to; the Ministry of Agriculture will pay particular attention to this aspect, for the relevance and success of the solutions to be developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u24	Mr Nicolas Demoulin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 1207 on the sale of wine products at a loss.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u25	Companies in the wine sector are in great difficulty, in particular those most dependent on the hotels and restaurants, tourism and direct sales sectors. Volumes are declining and export activities have also suffered a significant loss of turnover. The crisis of the covid-19 hurts the products of the terroir; In my constituency, this is the case of the Mireval and Frontignan Muscats, which have experienced a very complicated year 2020. These natural sweet wines, of international renown, face an unprecedented crisis. Frontignan's muscat is particularly seasonal and its distribution is based on promotions. Almost half of the turnover of the cooperative cellar is realized in three months; more than 60% is achieved under promotion. The Act for the Balance of Trade Relations in the Agriculture and Food Sector and a Healthy, Sustainable and Accessible Food for All, known as EGALIM, laid the foundation for a framework of promotional operations, through the Order of 12 December 2018. Article 3 of the Directive lays down the detailed rules for the framework, specifying in particular that it concerns products which represent no more than 25 % of a forecast turnover defined by the Commercial Code. To address this challenge, the draft law on various provisions related to the health crisis, adopted on 2 June 2020 in the Joint Joint Committee, provides in its Article 2 for a new authorisation, in order not to apply the framework provisions for products of a marked seasonal nature, a category to which natural sweet wines belong. I would therefore like to know whether Frontignan's muscat will be affected by these exemptions from promotion supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u26	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u27	I would like once again to apologize for the absence of the Minister of Agriculture, who is accompanying the President of the Republic this morning. The Government is fully aware of the difficulties facing the wine sector. It has provided many specific or cross-cutting financial support to support this flagship of French agriculture, but I think you have all this in mind. Here are some answers on the points you are referring to in marketing. The law of 30 October 2018 for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet effectively provides for the supervision of promotional operations in terms of value and volume. This was clarified by the Order of 12 December 2018 on raising the threshold for resale at a loss and the framework for promotions for foodstuffs and certain food products. The aim of this framework was, on the one hand, to limit the price war between distributors, which is detrimental to the whole food chain, and, on the other hand, to encourage players to develop, where appropriate, promotional approaches based not on lower prices but on value-creating actions. Price promotion is not the only way to capture the act of buying from consumers. In order to take account of some of the limitations you mentioned, however, some relaxations have been introduced, in particular with regard to the volume promotion thresholds for seasonal products. The law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as the ASAP law, has thus repealed the order of 12 December 2018 concerning the threshold of resale at a loss and the framework of promotions, in order to extend them until 15 April 2023. In addition, in the case you referred to, it clarified the provisions on seasonal products. Flexibility at the limit of 25% of volume promotions is thus possible for foodstuffs of which 50% of turnover is achieved over a maximum of 12 weeks. The request must be made by the inter-occupation concerned. Where it does not exist, it may be a professional organisation representing producers or suppliers of the foodstuffs or categories of foodstuffs concerned at the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. On the basis of the relevant data provided, the latter shall establish by decree the list of foodstuffs benefiting from this derogation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u28	Mr Jean-Michel Clément, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 1217 on aid to the sheep sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u29	I have taken note of the absence of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, whom I, of course, apologise for. I'm sure you'll relay my question as it should. My question concerns the new common agricultural policy for the post-2020 period, which is currently under negotiation in the European Council and the European Parliament. In order to decline it within the Member States, the new regulations require each State to draw up a national strategic plan, including a diagnosis of the situation, to assess the needs which the common agricultural policy – CAP – must satisfy. The national strategic plan must meet three general objectives, including strengthening environmental and socio-economic measures in rural areas. Each State must then establish its own strategy, structured around nine specific objectives and a cross-cutting objective. Our country is characterized by a wide variety of productions – which makes it rich – and must give priority to those that are in arrears, first and foremost the sheep sector. For more than thirty years, this fragile sector has experienced very strong international competition. Ovine production fully meets the objectives that I have just recalled and is structuring for fragile territories. It is also recognized for providing valuable environmental services: it contributes to the preservation of biodiversity and is a major tool for landscape maintenance and reducing the risk of avalanches or fires in certain regions. It should also be noted that 85% of the herd is located in less-favoured areas and that the country is in deficit in beef and veal, with production covering only 43% of French consumption. Moreover, the number of breeders has been declining dangerously since the 1980s: in ten years, 50% of breeders will have to pass on their holdings; non-renewal of generations jeopardizes the future of a whole industry. The ovine aid introduced in 2010, with the dual objective of developing production and structuring the sector, has helped to slow down the deterioration of this sector of activity. This traditional farming activity, which generates jobs, must not be abandoned by the next CAP, but on the contrary sustained, in particular by maintaining coupled aid. Maintaining coupled aid will be a decisive support for the sheep sector. An important and sacramentalized envelope must be established in the context of future discussions. What commitments is the Government able to make to reassure sheep farmers? For many of them, the future depends largely on this aid, which, on average, accounts for 70% of the current farm income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u30	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u31	You are asking my colleague Julien Denormandie about the future of aid coupled with sheep currently being implemented in France under the CAP. As part of its reform, it is envisaged that each Member State will draw up a national strategic plan setting out its strategy. In France, work to establish a national diagnosis and to identify the needs to be met by national choices began in 2019. They are carried out in consultation with stakeholders. In addition, a public debate to seek the views of citizens was launched in February 2020; it ended in November 2020. As these first steps conclude, work to define the content of the measures – you call for them – is now starting, in close cooperation with the regional councils, in charge of certain measures, in particular the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. This work will continue in the coming months, involving stakeholders, in particular the Higher Council for Guidance and Coordination of the Agricultural Economy. The aim is to transmit a version of the national strategic plan to the European Commission at the end of the first half of 2021. As part of this diagnosis, the stakes of the sheep industry and the environmental services rendered by the livestock industry have been well identified. The choices concerning coupled aid to this sector, as well as other measures to address the issues raised, will have to be made when drawing up the national strategic plan in the course of 2021. In this regard, I have taken note of your wishes and your contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u32	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u33	These farms affect fragile areas, intermediate areas – qualified as such – on which few other crops are currently compatible with the constraints of agriculture. On the other hand, environmental services rendered took time to be recognized as a contribution to the agricultural world; They must now be. We cannot embark on a new post-2020 CAP without integrating these collective services that benefit society as a whole. Ovine herding has lost the compensatory allowance for natural handicap; It is important that they receive a counterpart. A strong sign must be given to sheep farms, whose production is currently too low in relation to demand. A strong sign must also be given to the new generations: these farms have a low capital intensity and could thus contribute to the renewal of generations in fragile rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u34	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to raise her question, No. 1193, concerning delays in files between users and the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u35	In my daily riding as a member of Parliament, I deal with a lot of recourses related to delays in the public administration, which cause problems for the public servants. Here are some recent examples. A father asks for the RSA – active solidarity income. The file is not in progress and documents are again requested one month after the application is filed. My team intervenes and a week later, the file is released to the CAF – the family allowance fund. An elderly lady complains because she was cut off from her minimum old age, wrongly. It returns the requested documents and they are again requested a month later. I intervene and the file is released before the documents are returned. An individual has a late payment from MaPrimeRenov'. My team contacts the ANAH – the National Habitat Agency – and the ANAH informs stakeholders about how to obtain the necessary information. A car dealer is waiting for an ecological bonus package for a customer. His letters with acknowledgment of receipt remained unanswered... My team is involved; The case is still under way. A garage operator pays wrong fines as a result of a sale of a vehicle not registered by the owner. The court cancelled the fines, but two months later, no repayments were made. Cash services are not available by telephone. I sent a letter and I'm waiting. A former farmer with no resources asks for the RSA from the MSA – the Agricultural Social Mutuality. Three months later, his case is still under way. We call the MSA, which undertakes to contact this person within five days. A 60-year-old Syrian refugee appealed to the CNDA – the National Asylum Court. For the second time, the hearing is adjourned, a delay of at least five months from the original date. Nothing else can be done to regularize it and allow it to take more suitable accommodation than CADA – the reception centre for asylum seekers – while she is seriously ill and in chemotherapy. A patient whose diagnosis was unfortunately hopeless made a request for a lift to be able to get down from the floor where his room was to the garden. A year later, the MDHC – the departmental home of disabled people – has still not responded and the patient died without being able to benefit from this daily comfort for his end of life. All these requests, and so many others since the beginning of the legislature, face delays in the administration. In all these cases, waiting times have put users in difficult situations, without having been able to know how long. The rule that the silence of the administration is accepted after two months does not work for these situations. It is therefore necessary to find a method of complying with the time limits, from the moment when the file is filed together with all the documents requested. Could it be envisaged that a maximum time limit for processing applications would be set by each jurisdiction, that a response date would be given at the time of filing of the file and that a fine would be paid by the administration to the user if the file was not settled on that date?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u36	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u37	I should like to apologize for the absence of Amélie de Montchalin, who has taken the subjects of transformation of the public action that you are talking about and on which the Government is extremely committed. The delays in processing applications from the citizens you mention are not acceptable. While they may sometimes result from the ad hoc malfunctions of certain services – the mistake is human – they also testify to the need to continue our actions to simplify the administrative procedures of our citizens. The Government is working to facilitate approaches between users and public services with, for example, the right to error and the dematerialization of administrative procedures with the "Tell us once" programme. A commitment on processing times is included in particular in the Government's "Public Services +" programme, which will be made public by the end of January and will have to be implemented by all administrations. Users will now receive an acknowledgement of receipt, upon written request. The service will be required to provide users with either a substantive response or a response indicating the processing times. Furthermore, and this is one of the other commitments of the Government, users will have access to quality of service results through user satisfaction indicators. These will be published online on the results-services-publics.fr website. This will allow users to check whether the services they request have satisfactory processing times. These commitments will contribute to the foundation of this new program of continuous improvement of public services, focused on the experiences of users, for simpler and more efficient public services. Based on the experience of these citizens, the Government will identify actions to be taken to continuously improve the quality of service. The Government is fully aware that significant progress can be made on simplifying approaches and on the proximity of public action. Rest assured of the Government's determination to carry out as soon as possible the changes still necessary to improve the functioning of administrations. This is evidenced by the mobilization of our public officials during the health crisis: their commitment allows, especially at this particular time, to ensure the continuity of public services in accordance with the charter of commitment of public services desired by the Minister of Transformation and Public Service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u38	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u39	All this information is essential. I will be able to highlight and value these advances if I have to experiment with them on the ground, which I have no doubt about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u40	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to put his question, No. 1222, on public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u41	Madam Minister responsible for industry, public procurement is of paramount importance to the economy and to local businesses. The Sapin 2 law has changed the rules governing the award of these contracts in order to further favour French SME-ETPs. But allotment, which should be the rule, now tends to become the exception, especially in construction. The lack of rigour in the administration and the lack of controls in the public order are unacceptable. In my constituency of the Vosges, the award of certain public contracts raises questions. Thus, the company Viry, located in Eloyes, responded to two invitations to tender, one for the glass roof of the Château de Villers-Cotterêts and the other for that of the Hotel de la Marine. On the pretext of vague criteria, the importance of which has not been demonstrated, they were attributed to a large company, which has a French name only, since it works entirely with foreign subcontractors, while Viry proposed lower prices and an equivalent quality of offer. Public contracts are financed with taxpayers' money: the most advantageous tariff should be preferred, as should the desire to promote French jobs, local TPEs and SMEs, and to preserve know-how. In addition, the independence of the principals must be a golden rule. It seems customary for some service managers and contractors to give their preference to specific companies, which is completely unacceptable. Minister, could you ask your services to look at these specific markets a little more in detail? More generally, what do you intend to do to make the award of public contracts fairer and to strengthen its economic and social dimension? The aim is to highlight our French SMEs and TPEs in order to enhance their skills in the service of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u42	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u43	You stress the importance of public control, the driving force behind our economy, which is a determining factor in economic policy, and in particular in industrial policy. There is a lot of talk about "made in France"; You know I've been defending the principle for two years. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government, with the support of Parliament, has evolved the legal framework in order to facilitate SMEs' access to public procurement, to develop socially and environmentally responsible purchases, as well as innovative purchases, by exploiting the potential of European public procurement law. These are large and insufficiently used in France. We have thus introduced legislation and regulations to give new tools to public purchasers and to facilitate access to public order for all companies, in particular SMEs and innovative start-ups, as well as actors in integration. Two years ago, with the PACTE law – an action plan for business growth and transformation – we banned service orders at 0 euro, in order to rebalance the conditions for the financial execution of public procurement. I have also increased the ceiling on non-formal public procurement, as the procedures are an obstacle for SMEs and TPEs: it is now set at 40000 euros for the entire public order. I have also created a system for innovative purchases of less than 100000 euros, which promotes access to the public order of the most innovative companies. I have strengthened advances in public procurement, particularly for the benefit of SMEs. Finally, in July 2019 I started work on the general administrative clauses in order to systematically introduce social and environmental clauses. Indeed, it is known that French public procurement is on average more respectful of these aspects; If we want to succeed in the ecological and energy transition, we must, as a public buyer, accord our deeds and our words. The law to speed up and simplify public action – ASAP – which you recently voted for, has further improved the accessibility of these markets for SMEs. The exemption from proceedings ceiling, below which public works contracts are exempt from advertising and competition, has been increased to EUR 100000. This measure takes its full interest at a time when we are deploying a considerable thermal renovation program, in which artisans and small businesses are expected to participate. Allotment, which is now mandatory, facilitates SMEs' access to public order in certain markets. Global contracts will have to provide for a minimum share of execution, fixed by decree, which the holder will entrust to SMEs or artisans; Moreover, the rate of subcontracting to SMEs will be a criterion for selection, in order to encourage companies to go beyond this. Mr President, I agree with you that we need to consolidate these tools and speed up their impact, in particular by acting with public buyers, local authorities and public institutions to ensure that they are trained and take full advantage of them. This is one of the challenges of the recovery plan. We are also working to go further in the field of public order. With regard to the specific dossiers that you mentioned, I have asked my services to look precisely at the problems that you are pointing out, because I believe that such an analysis will help to improve the effects of this work that we are carrying out in the service of SMEs and our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u44	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u45	Indeed, the laws ASAP and PACTE have made improvements; I was on those benches to amend and vote on these texts. Nevertheless, we must check with the administration that the measures we have adopted are actually being implemented. Regarding more specifically the case of the company Viry, thank you for keeping me informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u46	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to put her question, No. 1216, on the new proximity network in Tarn-et-Garonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u47	I would like to draw your attention to the reorganization of the public finance network in Tarn-et-Garonne, called "new proximity network". My first point concerns the method. The map submitted in October 2019 was intended to serve as a basis for consultation. The latter term is not appropriate, since it was in fact information, which explains the strong opposition of the elected representatives of municipal councils and intercommunalities, as well as of the agents and their union representatives. The project concentrates business services in the city of Montauban alone, with an antenna in Moissac, which could be only temporary – can you reassure us on this point? It led to the disappearance of nine local cash exchanges in the department, almost all of them, especially in the former cantonal capitals, which nevertheless played a central role. As far as spatial planning is concerned, this poses problems and raises questions for many elected officials. This reform has close proximity only to the name. The contact points in France services houses, which are not yet all open, will offer only forty-four days of presence per year, compared to 112 at present, i.e. access to services which is not satisfactory. The new organisation is based on an inadequate division, which ignores the territorial specificities and the difficulties of access to digital technology, relating both to its deployment and to its uses. This reform recognizes the State's disengagement from one of its legitimate missions, in favour of a concentration of services allowed by an increase in the role of digital technology and by the rise in the power of telephone platforms. I would also like to draw your attention to the problems of confidentiality and respect for tax secrecy in France services houses or in the Buralists. Finally, I stress the concern of the local authorities, especially the smaller ones: the distinction between accounting management and advice will not simplify the choice of the interlocutor of the elected representatives and the town hall secretaries. We are witnessing a deterioration of the public service and a precarisation of the agents, accompanied by the abolition of posts and the loss of skills, which cause their concern, while they know the ground finely. Madam Minister responsible for industry, do you agree to review this cash reorganisation scheme in our department?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u48	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u49	Thank you for this question, which gives me the opportunity to recall the objectives of the new proximity network of DGFIP – the Directorate-General for Public Finance – and the method used to define it. The DGFIP network is one of the densest in the state; It reflects the diversity of its missions, but its organization no longer meets the needs. The aim of the new outreach network is precisely to bring public services closer to our citizens and to take into account the specific needs, by offering elected officials and users a modernised service, closer to and in response to their requests. In concrete terms, the reform consists of increasing the number of community receptions by more than 40 per cent and developing the council for local elected officials. In the long term, more than 1,400 executives will be dedicated to this mission of financial, fiscal, budgetary and accounting advice. Management activities will be shared within accounting management services to increase efficiency and timeliness. To define their organization, DGFIP initiated a new, concerted and partnership approach to elected officials and agents a little more than a year ago. To date, at the national level, departmental agreements have been signed in thirty-seven departments, with the prefect, the presidents of departmental councils, and often those of the departmental associations of mayors. At the same time, more than 400 conventions have been signed with the presidents of public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI. A total of seventy-eight departments have signed a charter, either departmental or with an EPCI. On the Tarn-et-Garonne, a departmental agreement was signed on 27 November 2019 in Bercy, by the minister of action and public accounts and by the president of the departmental council, following a consultation initiated in June 2019, as well as a convention with the community of communes Terres des confluences. DDFIP – the departmental Directorate of Public Finance – has continued since the presentation of its new outreach network to elected officials, through bilateral and collective meetings. This active consultation led to the evolution of the initial project of June 2019. DDFIP is now expected to be present in thirty-seven municipalities, five more than in the original project, while it was only present in nineteen municipalities in 2019. The project unfolds in dialogue, for the benefit of rural areas; They have everything to gain from the new organisation, which adapts to the needs of the users and partners of the DGFIP, in order to establish a local reception, with France services or in town hall, especially in the most remote municipalities of the urban centres. Users will benefit from a dedicated reception by agents with extended competences, who will take charge of any request. In addition, the possibility of paying for registered ruralists based in the villages is gradually expanding, offering users wider access times than those of the DGFIP services. I see that Mrs. Gourault is on the bench of the Government; I know that it is particularly concerned with ensuring that the specificities of rural areas are taken into account, with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u50	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u51	The opposition of the inter-communities is strong, as is that of the mayors. It is absolutely necessary to rework: I call in particular your attention to the points of contact, because the France services houses will offer forty-four days of presence, that is an hourly volume that is absolutely not equivalent to that of today, which amounts to 112 days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u52	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No. 1219, on holiday centres in mountain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u53	The crisis of the covid-19 affects the entire economic and social fabric of the country. In order to respond to the emergency, the Government has introduced numerous aid schemes. However, the consequences of the health crisis persist and many actors in mountain areas are among those for whom aid is inadequate or even non-existent. This is the case with holiday centres; They are also key economic players in mountain areas, including winter sports resorts. They are being hit by tourists, because of the closure of ski resorts and the scarcity of discovery classes in this school year 2020-2021, and they suffer greatly as a result of the crisis. It is to be feared that many holiday centres will not resist. However, the operators of hot beds are intimately linked to the many local actors: an entire ecosystem is thus weakened and threatened by the health crisis. The emergency fund set up for the organizers of holiday settlements and discovery stays is inadequate and does not cover all the statutes. Holiday villages and tourist residences are thus excluded from assistance schemes, excluding partial unemployment, such as municipalities which have maintained their holiday centres. As a result of this status, they do not benefit from the partial unemployment scheme for their employees or from other State aid schemes. This flaw greatly weakens the mountain communes, which can no longer bear the burdens of their centres and find themselves in critical situations. Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, this is a matter of great concern: we must make up for the lack of aid for the organizers of holiday settlements, so that they do not go bankrupt and are no longer there when we need them – we know how beneficial holiday settlements are for children. It is also necessary to allow the authorities to benefit from the arrangements established by the State. I also draw your attention to other iconic mountain actors: ski instructors. Some multi-employer seasonal workers cannot benefit from the assistance provided for ski instructors, for example if they are employed in another activity, and even if they do not receive a salary during the winter period. This is a profound injustice and a major distortion in relation to their colleagues. Due to the closure of ski lifts, a significant number of seasonal ski instructors have been resourceless since the beginning of winter, which is obviously not acceptable. Minister, the Government must also take into account the specific situation of these multi-stakeholders; He must not leave them without resources. What do you intend to propose to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u54	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u55	As you know, Mrs Battistel, the Government is mobilized to deal with the very important consequences of the crisis of the Covid-19 for mountain territories, especially in the tourism sector. The Government has responded to the operators of lifts, both public and private. They benefit, as you know, from a support fund that compensates for 70% of their fixed expenses. I would point out, however, that we have engaged in discussions with the European Commission on this support measure, since notification of a specific scheme is necessary to establish such a scheme – things are not as simple as that. In addition, under the tourism plan, the businesses concerned may benefit from aid of up to EUR 10000 under the solidarity fund, on the other hand from the partial activity, with 100% State support. These measures apply not only to the shops of the ski resorts, but also to those located in the municipalities of the valleys that depend on them. I have heard your remarks about the holiday centres. They belong either to local authorities or to individuals who live in this activity. I will send the message to the Prime Minister and consider how to provide a more comprehensive response to this situation. In the case of ski instructors, those who do not hold a full-time employment contract will be able to access the Solidarity Fund, with a right of option allowing them to obtain compensation of up to 10000 euros or 20 % of their turnover in 2019 during the same period. Other tourism and hotel activities linked to the operation of winter sports resorts are already receiving enhanced support from the solidarity fund, thanks to their integration into the tourism plan. However, according to what you have just indicated, not all holiday centres would be affected by the scheme. I will look at the issue more closely. More generally, in order to secure the hiring of seasonal workers, the Government decided, as early as 30 November, to grant the benefit of the partial activity to the companies concerned until the resumption of activity in the mountain resorts. You can count, Mrs Battistel, on the action of the Government. As far as holiday centres are concerned, I will give you a more precise answer in writing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u56	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u57	I take note of this commitment, Minister. I stress that multi-activity ski instructors do not benefit from the assistance provided for the profession. But they cannot carry out their main activity – for example, crafts – in the winter. We have to find a solution for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u58	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to raise her question, No. 1218, concerning cyberattacks by municipalities in Val-de-Marne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u59	In recent months, several cities in Val-de-Marne, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion and Relations, have been subjected to cyber attacks that cripple their networks. At the town hall of Alfortville, there was no more internet, no more servers, no more e-mail, no more telephone. As agents struggle to ensure the continuity and smooth functioning of public services, this situation becomes very complicated, especially in the context of the health crisis. Of course, the problem has just been partially solved, but the city thought it could count on the active help of the state to solve this cyberattack. Unfortunately, even though it has provided valuable advice, the National Agency for Information Systems Security, ANSSI, has referred the services to private consultants. The data in question would not be sensitive enough for it to intervene directly. If it is not for me to determine the sensitivity of the data, I am astonished at this position, knowing that the city, which has 45,000 inhabitants, has been heavily handicapped for almost three months and must more than ever provide a responsive and effective public service for citizens. It should also be noted that these cyberattacks have hit many public bodies, including the Departmental Council of Eure-et-Loir, the National Agency for Adult Vocational Training and the Public Assistance-Hospitals of Paris. I would therefore like to draw your attention to this situation, Madam Minister. The development of cybersecurity is undoubtedly a major issue, and the work remains ahead of us. What steps do you intend to take to further support local communities and public bodies in the deployment of cybersecurity? What do you intend to do to help them better when they face formidable cyber attacks for their activities, attacks that penalize citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u60	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u61	As you have pointed out, Mrs Santiago, the proliferation of cyber-attacks by ransomware – that is now the term – is a very worrying trend. If this increase was observed in 2019, we witnessed an explosion of the threat in 2020. At constant scope, the ANSSI dealt in 2020 with four times more cyber ransomware attacks than in 2019 – 192 versus 54. Local authorities are particularly vulnerable to this threat, as well as end-of-chain citizens, since cyber attacks can, among other things, affect local public transport or interrupt the payment of social benefits. In the face of this significant threat, the State services are fully mobilized. The investigative services of the police and gendarmerie, the section of the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office specializing in cyber crimes and the ANSSI work and cooperate on an ongoing basis. ANSSI is a national cybersecurity authority owned by the Prime Minister and attached to the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security. As of 1 January 2021, it had 550 officers, 230 of whom were in its Operations Branch. Given the magnitude of the threat, no service, however effective it may be, would be able to accompany all victims alone. Therefore, in order to meet the demand, the ANSSI has developed various devices and relies on relays, both in prevention and in response to incidents. Examples include the creation of the Public Interest Group Action against Cyber Malveillance and its Web site malveillance.gouv.fr or the qualification of cybersecurity service providers. All these measures, of course, are coordinated. It should also be noted that the Association des maires de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité and ANSSI have jointly published a guide to best practices in cybersecurity for local authorities. Finally, under the France Recovery Plan, the Government will provide €136 million to strengthen the cybersecurity of the State and public services for the years 2021 and 2022. This allocation has been entrusted to ANSSI, which plans to devote a significant part of the appropriations to the security of local authorities and public bodies. Two key areas have been identified for this purpose: firstly, the completion of cybersecurity diagnostic pathways followed by a provider's support to rapidly improve the level of cybersecurity in the community – the quality of the network plays an important role in this regard; Second, the creation of cyber incident response teams in the regions. These state aid schemes are intended to give the initial impetus, so that the communities can then take up these issues themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u62	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u63	Thank you for your answer, Minister. In the context of the pandemic, the development of telework has opened up gaps in the security of community servers. We need to work together to strengthen the security of all our servers and protect ourselves from cyber attacks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u64	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor to put his question, No. 1214, on the tax revenues of the communities affected by the closure of the Fessenheim power station.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u65	My question, Minister for Cohesion of Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, concerns the considerable amounts paid by the European Community of Alsace – you have made a major contribution to its creation; my colleagues and I thank you again – and the community of communes Pays Rhin-Brisach to the National Fund for Individual Guarantee of Resources, the FNGIR, since the closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant. Your Government's decision to close the plant in 2020 has resulted in significant tax revenue losses to ECA and the community of communes. Remittances to FNGIR are calculated on the basis of a comparison of tax resources collected before and after the 2010 reform. ECA and the community of communes continue to contribute to the fund at the same level, i.e. EUR 2.9 million each. It is therefore EUR 5.8 million that is the responsibility of the Alsatian taxpayers. In fact, they are suffering a double penalty, since they are also faced with the cost of revitalizing their territory. This is obviously not acceptable. You have decided to compensate Électricité de France for twenty years; So you admit that the power plant could still have operated for the same time. You have deprived the territory of the tax resources provided by efficient equipment, without being able to offer real compensation for the financial losses suffered by the local authorities. The current state compensation – EUR 30 million over ten years – will never be able to cover these losses, let alone the expenses associated with the transformation of the local economy. I would like to know when the Government will put an end to this untenable situation, for which it is responsible, by agreeing to review the amount of contributions made to FNGIR by ECA and the community of communes in the Rhine-Brisach countries, so that their losses are fully compensated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u66	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u67	It is probably worth recalling that a permanent compensation mechanism was set up in 2010 to neutralise the consequences for the local government budget of the abolition of the business tax on that date. This mechanism consists of a government-funded endowment and a community-funded fund, the FNGIR you just mentioned. The FNGIR ensures that each community receives the same resources as it received prior to the reform through a levy or payment. Ten years ago, the choice was made to ensure the sustainability of this system by definitively fixing the individual amount of participation in or profit from the fund – as the case may be. What was perceived as a guarantee of stability over time is now being called into question, in particular by the municipalities which have suffered a loss of tax base since 2010 due to the departure of one or more companies from their territory. There are several cases of this nature on French territory, including the one – important – that you mentioned, linked to the closure of the Fessenheim power plant. The Government has taken up the problem. First, we have decided to deal with the limited cases: the Finance Act for 2021 provides that municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation for which the levy under the FNGIR represents more than 2% of the actual operating revenue and which have experienced a reduction since 2012 of more than 70% in the base of the property contributions of the enterprises will receive annually a state allocation equal to one third of their contribution to the FNGIR. This provision will concern about 300 communes by 2021. It will, of course, apply to Fessenheim, since the State's compensation will no longer fully cover the loss of tax revenue, i.e. in three years' time. You will also note that we have learned the lessons of the past by predicting that the mechanism of compensation for the removal of the housing tax will be evolutionary, so that this issue does not arise again in a few years. Finally, unlike what had been thought for the FNGIR, the compensation will obviously be adaptable to the situation of each community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u68	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u69	I hear your answer, Madam Minister, but the allocation of the State equivalent to one third of the contribution to the FNGIR will be paid only to the community of communes Pays Rhin-Brisach, and not to the European Community of Alsace. In addition, we would have liked the amount of this State allocation to be higher. This was the subject of an amendment which unfortunately was rejected during the Senate's consideration of the 2021 finance bill. Finally, new revenue will have to be created through the establishment of companies. We are working on this and hope to be able to count on your support on this point as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u70	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to put forward her question, No 1224, on the future of seaports.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u71	The major French seaports face difficulties related to the current health and economic context, the consequences for the resulting global trade movements and Brexit. Their resilience is, however, important: evidence of this, for example in Le Havre, of the recently signed agreements on competitiveness and social reliability, as well as of the planned and financed investments which will undoubtedly promote recovery. At the same time, all solutions to promote economic recovery should be explored, including new instruments. Port free zones are areas within which goods can be freely unloaded, handled, processed and re-dispatched. They are not subject to customs duties until they are sent to consumers in the surrounding country. Logistical free zones, which benefit from customs extraterritoriality, remain in the best of cases unknown and in the worst of cases dishonest. However, unlike customs warehouses, they allow products to be stored without a time limit within the European Union. Most of the world's major ports have a free zone adjacent to them. Following Brexit, the United Kingdom wants to create ten free ports, in order to attract flows that would normally have returned to the European Union and to carry out value-added transformations close to the market. However, in this rapidly growing sector and with a view to creating a new demand, France could stop competing with costs alone and be a gateway to Europe by offering services with very high added value in order to generate new demand. Beyond the logistical free zones, port areas of strategic interest or areas of competitiveness of port logistics should also be created. They could benefit from time-limited and degressive tax exemptions or reliefs in order to increase volumes and consider integrating them into special economic zones. Complementary measures on low wages or reduction of land taxation could also be envisaged. Thanks to the recovery plan, these port areas of strategic interest should promote new business start-ups in France. Furthermore, these areas should be included in a virtuous ecological approach by setting, for example, minimum volumes transported by river or rail. This approach should therefore be part of a comprehensive commercial and maritime policy, in the spirit of the strategic direction set by the National Council for the Sea and Coastals. So, Minister Delegate, I thank you for telling me what action you could take on this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u72	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u73	I thank you for addressing this essential issue of the attractiveness of the ports, which are obviously key elements of our foreign trade and not to be attractive, major tools for the export of French products internationally, but also places where, in many cases, a large number of companies come to settle. Their competitiveness therefore seems to be absolutely crucial in order to welcome new investments. You were present, Madam Member, when I went to Le Havre last Friday to consider with its mayor, Édouard Philippe, the means of achieving the ambition to make your port indispensable in the European port organisation and to make it a great pole of attractiveness. I had the opportunity to visit the HAVLOG site, which is a blank site that will eventually accommodate logistics companies and other business sectors. It is a turnkey logistics site for economic development and attractiveness. In the face of European competition and that of the United Kingdom, which wants to equip itself with new tools such as free ports, we must ensure that the attractiveness of French ports is further strengthened. I work with all the members of the Government, be it Agnes Pannier-Runacher, Jean-Baptiste Djebari, Clément Beaune, Olivier Dussopt or, of course, Bruno Le Maire, under the authority of the Prime Minister, to offer the French ports the best possible assets through the logistics industry and all the devices linked to the sea. In this respect, European comparisons show that free zones are not as wide as we might think. Specific arrangements for special economic zones should be studied. This is what we are doing – in this context, your contribution is very important – by ensuring, in the interests of control of public accounts, that we do not create any windfall effects or relocations between French territories. I therefore confirm that the Government is mobilized to implement a comprehensive strategy for the competitiveness of French ports that encompasses all the relevant issues that you have mentioned: the fluidity of the passage of goods, thanks in particular to the speed of customs, veterinary and phytosanitary formalities; storage facilities; Attractiveness of property taxation; incentives for the establishment of high value-added and job-creating activities. In short, we are working hard to enable French ports, starting with Le Havre, to have all the tools they need to cope with competition from other European ports and with the new strategy of creating free ports developed by the British.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u74	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u75	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for your answer. You understand that by creating logistics zones in white, local actors make a real bet. The Government is working on its maritime strategy and consideration should be given to these special economic zones, which are a key issue for the coming years and for the future of France's foreign trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u76	Mr Philippe Meyer, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 1211, concerning the situation in the Lohr Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u77	My question concerns both the defence industry and the export of its production. For many years, the French industry has been weakening. But today, because of the health and economic crisis that we are going through, a large number of industrial companies are simply playing their survival. Of course, behind these production tools is the question of employment in our country and the need for public authorities to support these national enterprises through public procurement. The state must give them business opportunities, and your ministry, the minister responsible, must take its full part in this, as part of a stimulus plan that could be dedicated specifically to the defence industries. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the worrying situation of the Lohr Group in the Lower Rhine. Lohr is an ETI – a mid-size company – emblematic in Alsace, known and well-known, especially for its car carriers and railway solutions sold around the world. With 470 million euros in sales in 2019, of which more than 80% came from exports, the group employed more than 1000 people. Thanks to its subsidiary Soframe, Lohr has been, in recent years, the largest French exporter of military vehicles. In 2021, however, the company's turnover is expected to reach only a quarter of that of 2019. In these circumstances, the group, which now resorts to partial unemployment, envisages in the short term a dramatic social plan concerning more than 300 people, the first step before other potentially more serious measures which could lead to the pure and simple disappearance of the company. The Lohr Group has partnered with Renault Trucks Defense, now called Arquus, to respond to a call for tenders for four- to six-ton trucks destined for the army to replace vehicles over fifty years old. If it is to be launched soon, the programme has not, to my knowledge, yet been confirmed. The need for these trucks is fully confirmed by the military staff, and these two companies, with a 100% French supply, need rapid prospects for the 2022s and 2023s. Their German and Italian competitors received the support of their respective governments by being notified of important orders. I know, Madam Minister, that we share the same will to revive the economic machine. We have an opportunity here to do so. I would therefore like to know what support the Government intends to give to these two flagships of our industry and what is the status of this invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u78	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u79	You are asking us about the situation of the Lohr group, located in your department, and in particular its defence branch, Soframe, which is experiencing difficulties aggravated by the health crisis. You want the Government to intervene to help this enterprise in the years to come. The Lohr group is well known to the Ministry of Armed Forces, because Soframe equips, among other things, the French land forces with the versatile land carrier, which is an important vehicle. This market was won by Soframe, in partnership with Iveco. As you know, for the armies, the recovery plan is part of the military programming law, which you adopted by a large majority in 2018. It covers the period 2019-2025 and makes the Ministry of Armed Forces the first public investor, since it is almost 110 billion euros of expenditure that will concern our defence companies and the BTP – building and public works. This programming law allows us to renew the equipment we need and the replacement of vehicles of four to six tons is part of it. The launch of this programme is scheduled to take place in the course of 2022 and will be the subject of a tender in which the various industrialists in the sector will be able to participate, in particular the Lohr Group, which, as you have indicated, has planned to join Arquus. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Armed Forces is paying constant attention to defence companies, that we are ensuring that the critical skills of the defence industrial and technological base are maintained and that we are making considerable investments in France for the benefit of our armed forces. On the other hand, we accompany French industrialists to export their efforts to conquer markets, because France alone cannot ensure the sustainability of all the suppliers in the ministry. In these circumstances, no one – and I know you do not – can question the state's support for the defence industrial and technological base, nor its vigilance towards all the economic actors and the defence industry that serve France and that, as you know, represent non-relocable jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u80	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u81	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your precise answer. I hear you're planning to launch this 2022 call for tenders. I hope that by then this undertaking will not experience any more difficulties than its present one. Obviously, if there could be a signal by 2021, our defence industry would be doing better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u82	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to put his question, No. 1200, on parliamentary control of the territorial health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u83	In this period of epidemic and six months after the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, a reflection was launched on the territorial organization of the health system and the control to be made of it by parliamentarians. The current health crisis has brought to light the regional health agencies – ARS – which have so far been little known to the general public. It is also an opportunity to study their strengths and weaknesses accurately and to take stock of their functioning and organisation, so as to enable better coordination in the future, particularly at the departmental level. As parliamentarians, we are heavily solicited on our territories in terms of public health. National representation is ideally placed to play its full role of monitoring and informing SRAs. Neither at the regional level, nor at the departmental level, legislative power is present. This poses a democratic and surveillance problem for these agencies, especially in an area as important – and increasingly so – as health policy, which must be closer to the territories. In this sense, measure 33 of the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé is a key point in strengthening the departmental level of SRAs and dialogue with elected officials. It seems essential that parliamentarians also have their rightful place in this organization. In the same vein and more broadly, the question of governance of public health institutions arises. In July 2019, I asked a written question in order to include parliamentarians in the constituency of which a hospital is located, as a matter of law, on the supervisory board of hospital centres. Several amendments to this effect have been tabled on the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification. One of them was adopted on 1 December last. What position will the Government take on this issue when the text arrives at second reading? More broadly, how can we improve parliamentary control of the health system in the territories with regard to both RHAs and hospital centres, in order to facilitate the monitoring, transmission and reporting of information by national representation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u84	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u85	Mr President, you want parliamentary representation to be a relay and a forum not for monitoring, but for evaluation in the territories. From this summer onwards, the Ségur de la santé has set the ambition to change the management and management of our health care system by strengthening the departmental level of RHAs and by involving elected officials more closely. You have been a number of participants in the Ségur exchanges and consultations. You are also aware of the commitment of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the implementation of these measures. Moreover, the Prime Minister highlighted the other day in Toulon the vivacity of this dialogue, in particular on the occasion of the examination of the bill of your colleague Stéphanie Rist aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, where the place of parliamentarians in the bodies of health institutions had been mentioned. In addition to the provisions of this text, I would remind you that parliamentarians can already be members of the supervisory board of health institutions as qualified personalities. Olivier Véran has undertaken a series of measures to transform the supervisory board of the ARS into a board of directors, which should be included in the bill "4D" – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexification. This transformation will result in, among other things, an increase in the number of elected officials, who will benefit from two vice-presidents. The measure is part of a more comprehensive policy that is based on two levers: to promote an ambitious contractual policy, whose local health contracts are good examples, to make the governance of the health system more attractive by simplifying it and redefining the powers of each body in order to give meaning to the presence of elected representatives. Be aware that the Minister is very careful to ensure that parliamentarians are put in a position to play their role in monitoring the health system. Work is under way to better reflect the use of the Regional Response Fund, and the implementation throughout the territory of the measure to enable parliamentarians to sit on territorial health councils contributes to this. Of course, parliamentarians, local elected officials and directors of RHAs must form a real team that will enable our health system to be more relevant in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u86	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u87	Thank you for these explanations. The Government's policy to improve the functioning of our health system is ambitious. You can count on my commitment to contribute to the success of your reforms. Transparency, control, information and, more broadly, knowledge of the territorial health system are a legitimate demand of our citizens. It is essential that we find short-term solutions to better meet this urgent need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u88	Mrs Osson has the floor to raise her question, No. 1205 on covid-19 testing in Roubaix.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u89	The French and French have taken the habit of barrier gestures, and it is so much better, as they have adopted, with joy or regret, the PCR tests – Polymerase Chain Reaction – and antigenic. The city of Roubaix, of which I am elected, is one of those selected by the Government to participate in a massive testing experiment that began yesterday. I was on the spot alongside Secretary of State Laurent Pietraszewski. "Depister, trace, isolate", if this triptych is obviously not intended to appear on the frontons of our town halls, it has nevertheless become and will again this year be a master word of the strategy adopted by the Government. I will ask you about the substance and form of this experiment. First of all, 2020 has shown the urgent need for cooperation at every moment between the state, its deconcentrated services and local authorities. How did you organize the co-construction of the massive testing experiment, especially in Roubaix? You are aware that this territory is, like many, particularly affected by difficulties. Among other things, social difficulties are added to the virus. Many individuals may, for this reason, not go to screening which – I am speaking under your control – is only optional. How can we ensure, especially among local elected officials, that all the public, especially the most vulnerable, will be able to be identified? On the bottom, I will dwell on the last word of the triptych: isolating. Many families live in small dwellings where six to seven people sometimes live in two or three rooms. I therefore ask you a concrete question: how can effective isolation be organized for those whose material living conditions do not allow it to be respected? Have the deconcentrated services of the State provided for specific arrangements, such as solidarity hotels which are used in certain places? To the birds of bad augurs who would like to see us fail on the tests, as on the vaccines, we have shown that, rather than eagerness, it is the gradation, planning and responsibility that prevails when it comes to the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u90	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u91	Mr President, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes to you and to the national representative. As you have just said, Madam Member of Parliament, the regional health agency of Hauts-de-France organized a large-scale screening campaign in the city of Roubaix from yesterday until 16 January, which, at the height of the second wave, had among the highest incidence rates in France. You were there yesterday, with Secretary of State Laurent Pietraszewski. Thank you for your commitment to managing the health crisis in your territory. This unprecedented scheme, carried out in partnership with the municipality of Roubaix, the prefecture of the North, the health insurance and the professionals of the territory, is part of the strategy "Test, alert, protect" and national campaigns that will also be deployed in Saint-Étienne in a few days, as well as in Le Havre Seine Métropole. The whole stake of this campaign – as you recalled – is to identify as soon as possible a possible resumption of the epidemic linked to the holidays of the year in order to act quickly and try to stop the circulation of the virus on the commune. The aim is both to reduce viral circulation in the territory, to have up-to-date epidemiological information and to inform the whole country of the use of antigenic tests in the general population. This free, volunteer-based screening is available to residents of Roubaix as well as to people who regularly visit the city. Six screening sites are located in the Territory. In order to bring about the accession and mobilization of the inhabitants – this is one of the questions that you put to me – communication actions are carried out by the "Ambassadors de lutte contre la covid-19", under a device born in Roubaix and Tourcoing. They intervene in the so-called "political districts of the city" with the aim of clarifying the operation upstream by encouraging participation, relaying all useful information and fighting against misconceptions, which are unfortunately known to be numerous with regard to vaccines. About 50 health ambassadors, as well as the network of social and solidarity centres, are also mobilized to inform, sensitize, welcome and accompany people who wish to do so before, during and after this screening. Each participant will lose part in two nasopharyngeal samples to benefit from an antigenic test and a RT-PCR test – Reverse Transcript Polymerase Chain Reaction. If the effectiveness of the antigenic test is recognized for patients with symptoms for at least four days, the risk of false negatives is real, as you know, in the absence of symptoms. First in France, the simultaneous and large-scale conduct of a PCR test and an antigenic test will make it possible to better assess the sensitivity of the antigenic test, to specify the conditions under which false negatives occur, so to use antigenic tests more effectively in the future. This field screening will also offer a flash tracking contact, since all the people tested will identify their contacts at risk in advance. In addition, support for isolation is organised – to answer another of your questions – by the prefectural authority, through the territorial units supporting isolation, in connection with the town hall. Its objective is to limit the risk of contamination within the home. It will be offered to anyone – confirmed cases or contact cases – who encounters difficulties in respecting isolation. For those whose living conditions do not allow isolation at home, the State has provided accommodation and rehousing solutions in hotels, holiday homes or dedicated accommodation centres. It is one of the missions of the territorial units supporting isolation, which the prefectures have set up since spring in partnership with the local authorities and whose role will be amplified within the framework of the strategy TAP – test, alert, protect – renewed, which will be presented in the coming days. Finally, persons in serious insecurity who do not require hospitalization but who need to be isolated and receive medical care will be referred to specialized accommodation centres. This recommendation concerns persons in a street situation or in a temporary winter accommodation centre, such as the CHRS – a shelter and social reintegration centre – or any structure managed by the Ministry of the Interior for asylum seekers or refugees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u92	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to put her question, No. 1208, on the end of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u93	We are living in an unprecedented period, which must be the focus of our attention. However, some topics are unfortunately still topical, which requires reminder bites. Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Canada, Germany and now Spain have all decided to legislate to offer everyone the choice of an end of life with dignity. Your government claims to embody a new path above the lines of conventional political parties. Yet, under this quinquennium, bioethical revisions have taken care to avoid at all costs the issue of the end of life, while more than 90% of French people are calling for progress in the legislation. Law is a living and evolutionary matter. Yes, the Leonetti and Claeys-Leonetti laws have had their relevance, they have paved the way. But today, unfortunately, they are no longer enough. That is why I tabled a bill last month to legalize active help to die and to make universal access to palliative care in our country. We all know people who have gone under tragic conditions, and we know that they would have liked to have been better accompanied. It's high time your majority supported this company project. No, it won't be the door open to all the drifts. Yes, a law like this could have avoided, during the first wave of the covid, the hasty taking of a decree, which worried patients and caregivers. How can the country of human rights still consider that dying from malnutrition and dehydration is compatible with human dignity? How can we still accept that in some territories palliative care is not available? How, in our country, can men and women still die from choking? We can no longer let our fellow citizens leave the territory to find a solution elsewhere. We must be able to meet the expectations of the French, who finally ask us one simple thing: that their will can be respected. Let us be worthy of the country of human rights: let us legalize active aid to die. This week, we will visit Belgium with a delegation of parliamentarians and Jean-Luc Romero, President of the French ADMD – association for the right to die in dignity. From all sides, we fight to move things forward. Our only common goal is the free conscience to choose its end of life. Secretary of State, listen to the French through their representatives. Let's move forward together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u94	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u95	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u96	End of life is a constant concern of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. This is reflected in the laws enshrined in it – historically and deliberately drafted outside of the revision of bioethics laws – and in successive national plans developed since 1999. In October 2020, Minister Olivier Véran launched the preparatory work for the next national plan on this issue. The aim is to ensure the effective implementation of end-of-life rights and access for everyone to palliative care that is most appropriate to their clinical situation and place of life, while respecting their dignity and wills. That is what we believe to be effective. As you know, France has chosen to accompany the end of life without provoking it. The legislation in force is the result of a long democratic process initiated since 1999 by the recognition of the right of access to palliative care. The Claeys-Leonetti Act of 2 February 2016 strengthened it. It recognizes to everyone the right to a dignified end of life, through the best possible appeasement of suffering which "must be, in all circumstances, warned, taken into account, evaluated and treated. » The law enshrines respect for the will of the person, which is enforceable against the healthcare team. If the patient is unable to express it, advance instructions and the appointment of a trusted person will ensure that this will is respected. The National Centre for Palliative and End-of-Life Care – CNSPFV – is helping to raise awareness of this system, especially through the internet portal you know: talk-fin-de-vie.fr. In 2018, the National Advisory Committee on Ethics for the Life and Health Sciences and the Council of State considered that the current law provided an answer to most end-of-life situations. While our fellow citizens express the desire for an end of life accompanied in their place of life, the challenge lies in the development of community care, without yielding anything to the imperatives of relevance of care, anticipation of needs and security of the care path. For the law to be better known and applied and for the rights of patients to be more effective, we have three main axes: strengthening the acculturation of our fellow citizens to the law of the end of life and the dissemination of the palliative culture among professionals and stakeholders in accordance with the spirit of the law and the imperatives of collegiality of consultation; support for the high level of expertise required in palliative care and its accessibility to stakeholders in order to ensure the anticipation of needs and facilitate care; the deployment of innovative devices to allow everyone to be cared for in their place of life and according to their wishes. These are all issues before us to make patients' rights to this painful issue even more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u97	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u98	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for this historic reminder, which I also know but which does not answer the question I asked you. The plan for palliative care had been in demand for a long time; Minister Buzyn refused to work there, and I am pleased that Mr.Véran does. My question is when we will allow in France to die in dignity, as is the case in almost all European countries?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u99	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor to put his question, No. 1210, concerning the Victor Jousselin hospital in Dreux.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u100	Within the framework of the Segur de la Santé, the Government has decided to devote a major effort to the modernization of hospitals, with a budget of 2.5 billion euros over five years. I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the Victor Jousselin hospital in Dreux, whose particularity is to be over fifty years old; As a result, its building permit was issued prior to the 1967 decree on the regulation of public administration for the construction of high-rise buildings and their protection against the risks of fire and panic. The hospital is now old and requires important work. In recent years, he has experienced several fire starts, fortunately quickly controlled but which could have been catastrophic. The ARS – the regional health agency – is well aware of the situation and regularly accompanies the hospital in its projects of upgrading to standards, but a mission of the IGAS – the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – concluded a little more than a year ago on the need for the reconstruction of the hospital. Mr Secretary of State, can you assure me that, when selecting the projects selected to benefit from the funds allocated under the Ségur de la Santé, the special situation of the Victor Jousselin de Dreux hospital, whose case is exceptional in view of the respect of safety standards against the risk of fire, will be taken into account in particular?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u101	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u102	I will endeavour to respond to you in the current state of our knowledge and in the light of the process undertaken to remedy the situation of the Victor Jousselin hospital in Dreux with regard to the risk of fire with regard to the seniority of the buildings. This establishment has been strongly supported since 2015: the ARS Centre-Val-de-Loire has allocated 11.8 million euros to it to carry out priority and safe investments as well as structural works such as the renovation of four rooms of the operating room, which have made it possible to significantly improve the material working conditions of the staff and the reception of patients. The remaining need for work is clearly identified: as part of the development of the establishment's master plan, the regional health agency, in consultation with the directorates of the hospital centre and the local hospital group, agreed in November 2020 to launch a feasibility study on the development of the building of the Dreux hospital centre. This study is the first instalment of a contract for the conduct of operations with optional tranches which includes the prospect of future work to be carried out. It is on the basis of the findings and options identified in this study, whose results we do not yet know, that investment decisions will be made and a financing plan will be developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u103	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u104	Thank you for the answer, Secretary of State. The choice before the hospital is whether or not to continue with the colossal standard-setting work to which the ARS has already devoted a great deal of money – you have quoted the operating blocks – and we are grateful for this effort. Nevertheless, the IGAS itself concluded that it was not rational to continue in this direction that would not buy back the original fault of the building, namely that it did not meet the fire safety standards currently applicable to high-rise buildings. This situation has consequences for the daily operation of the hospital as it entails additional costs in terms of staff and safety maintenance against the risks of fire which it must finance from its budget. The reconstruction option is probably the most rational, including in terms of operating costs. I would therefore like to remind the supervisory authority that it is its responsibility to rehabilitate a building that is not and will never fully meet the fire safety standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u105	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u106	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u107	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor to put her question, No. 1212, concerning the hospital in Falaise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u108	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all I wish you all the best. The health crisis that we are going through has put the need for a robust hospital network close to the needs of our fellow citizens at the forefront. Over the past ten years, small hospitals have been shaken and abused by successive savings plans. The hospital in Falaise, south of Calvados, saw its maternity close in 2015 and did not recover any compensation services, contrary to the commitments that had been made at the time. It must also operate today in tandem with the Argentan Hospital, located in Orne, which further weakens it: the joint management, on the basis of two departments, is counterproductive. It aims to operate two small hospitals together, which, even if assembled, cannot offer full care to patients in the territory. It would be possible to establish a common direction between the hospital of Falaise and the university hospital – CHU – of Caen, which is the reference institution in Normandy. This type of cooperation, which does not seem to have been envisaged, would provide better care for patients in southern Calvados and would more permanently guarantee the future of the hospital in Falaise. Significant budgetary developments have been the result of the Segur of Health. Mr Secretary of State, I am not asking you for additional funds – even if they would be welcome – but for an administrative development to create a common direction at the Falaise Hospital and the CHU in Caen. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you again about the covid-19 tests. According to the information we receive from the field, it sometimes takes more than a week to get the results. Surgical procedures must be staggered due to the lack of timely receipt of these results. At the beginning of December, I drew attention to the LoopX test, proposed by a start-up from Caen, which provides a reliable result in 30 minutes. The use of this PCR – polymerase chain reaction – test, developed in partnership with Caen's CHU, would make it possible to fluidize the treatment routes. This would allow a patient to be detected immediately upon arrival at an emergency and, in case of a positive outcome, to avoid contaminating other patients. To date, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has only administrative authority to give. Mr. Secretary of State, why this resistance?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u109	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u110	Madam Member, I also wish you all the best for this new year, that you begin by drawing my attention and that of the ministry, to the situation of the hospital in Falaise. As you mentioned in the watermark, this facility's health care offer has seen significant changes over the last five years, in line with the changing needs of the territory and also with the need for regulation. Opening of a local perinatal centre in 2015, moving towards a week-long surgery and development of outpatient surgery in 2017, creating a geriatric short-stay service and a palliative care unit in 2019: these are, in short, the changes that have taken place at this hospital. In connection with the elected representatives – perhaps you or your predecessor – and of course with the medical community of the Pays de Falaise, the regional health agency, the ARS, wanted to reinforce this evolution through the rapprochement with another health facility. The aim of this rapprochement was to maintain a high attractiveness in terms of medical recruitment and to ensure a sufficient volume of activity to continue the development of a specialized care offer. It should make it possible to organize continuity of care more effectively, to strengthen the medical attractiveness of the institution and to provide patients in the territory with comprehensive care routes. The geographical proximity between the hospital centre of Falaise and that of Argentan, which you mentioned, and the complementarity of the two establishments in certain sectors of activity, have led to the creation of a common direction, effective since 2019, and the definition of a common territorial medical project. The latter is consistent with the larger-scale medical project carried out by the territorial hospital group, the GHT, to which these two hospitals belong and whose supporting establishment is the CHU of Caen. In this context, the construction of a privileged link between the two institutions is fully compatible with the deepening of their respective links with other hospitals. In particular, the hospital in Falaise must be able to work fully with the CHU in Caen, as you have expressed the wish; It has also just done so for a support function, with the new kitchen project. Some cooperations even go beyond the scope of the GHT. This is the case for urgent medical aid, which is the subject of cooperation throughout the hemi-region of Calvados, Manche and Orne to provide guidance within the region of patients with covid-19 and requiring resuscitation care. This action, in which the hospital in Falaise took part – it should be welcomed – was the subject of a very positive assessment by the medical teams of critical care, who wished to adapt it to other pathologies, beyond the health crisis. Together with the regional health agency, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health will closely monitor the situation of this hospital, which is essential – we share this conviction, Madam Member – to the population of Falaise territory, especially to elderly patients. We will ensure that the institution can carry out all the cooperation and projects that are relevant to its management strategy, as it has already begun to do with the projects I have just cited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u111	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u112	The difficulty lies in the fact that one antenna has been attached to another. It's beautiful on paper, but in reality, it's very different! When the hospital in Falaise needs to transfer patients to the CHU in Caen, the latter sends him back to the hospital in Argentan: we turn in circles. Patients can be put at risk and a lot of time is lost. In fact, this scheme does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u113	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor to put her question, No. 1191, on environmental health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u114	The health crisis associated with covid-19 is similar to an environmental crisis; Our way of life has greatly weakened biodiversity, destabilizing the balance of coexistence between human, animal and plant species, that is, our ecosystem. According to the Institute for Development Research, IRD, more than 70% of emerging infections in the last 40 years are zoonoses, i.e. infectious diseases of animal origin. This is the case with HIV, malaria or Ebola, for example. One of the main lessons to be learned from this crisis is that it will be necessary to anticipate the future better. This requires a profound transformation of our health system, which refers to the multidimensional One Health approach, as environmental health refers to the impact of man on its environment, including flora and fauna, and its consequences on its own health and that of all living beings. One of the proposals in my report on the evaluation of public environmental health policies is to place greater emphasis on the study of environmental factors; It is now becoming a subject in its own right, to be included in the training of health professionals. The latter will be able to ensure the management and prevention of all diseases that have developed partly as a result of the degradation of our environment. It is known that in France, for example, air pollution results in the premature death of 48,000 people each year. Mr. Secretary of State, how do you intend to integrate environmental health issues into the training of health professionals? How can prevention be given priority in order to reduce, in the long term, the number of deaths associated with environmental diseases?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u115	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u116	The environment and its impact on human health is a major and growing concern for our citizens, which fully mobilizes parliamentarians and the Government – the forthcoming publication of the fourth national plan for health and environment, PNSE 4, by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, is further proof of this. The initial and continuing training of health professionals is one of the priorities of this plan, which is in line with the wish you have expressed. It is also a priority of the "My Health 2022" plan, to strengthen our health care system through a better organization of health professionals. Whether medical or paramedical, these professionals are indeed interlocutors of trust for our fellow citizens. Their training in environmental health is essential to ensure good patient information and better management of the impacts of our environment on their health. Environmental health, which is a cross-cutting theme, is already part of the training frameworks for health professionals. In an operational approach, the PNSE 4 aims to further strengthen existing mechanisms and frameworks to provide health professionals with the knowledge they need to practice, as closely as possible to their needs. This will be introduced into the training framework for caregivers as well as helpers. The health service for health students should also be mobilised to train students and carry out health education activities among the population, in conjunction with the Ministry of Higher Education. There are few existing training courses in the field of continuing training: they will be valued and new training will have to be offered, as closely as possible to the needs, in each territory. The existence of strong interactions between human health, animal health and, more broadly, ecosystem health will now be taken into account in a "one-health" approach. In addition to the training of health professionals, NSEP 4 provides for enhanced research capacity to characterize exposure and its close links to our health, with a view to identifying public health priorities for the coming years. These elements that I wanted to share with you seem to me, Madam Member, to join a number of the concerns and recommendations made in your report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u117	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u118	As part of the work of the commission of inquiry on the evaluation of public policies on environmental health, the NSPs have been strongly criticized for their lack of practical application. We will therefore be very vigilant on this point on the occasion of the PNSE 4, unfortunately also very criticized by the people interviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u119	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1220, concerning ondotological care in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u120	My question concerns access to dental and dental care for the inhabitants of the Sarthe and the evolution of the profession of dental surgeon in this department. Indeed, the figures provided by the Departmental Council of the Sarthe Dental Surgeons Association, relating to the current workforce, show that, of the 219 active health professionals, 97 are over 56 years of age – almost 45% – and 16 are over 65 – or 7.5%. A number of initiatives have been taken over the last ten years, such as the project of a dislocation centre from the faculty of dental surgery in Nantes to the hospital of Le Mans, the creation with the departmental council of a scholarship for students in odontology in exchange for the commitment to practice in an under-funded area, or even the organization of a discovery visit of the department for students in odontology. But these measures still seem insufficient to ensure the renewal of professionals who will cease their activity in the next few years, in particular to meet the need for general practitioners and childdontists. Several additional measures must be taken to ensure the support provided by the professional bodies. The determination by the regional health agency of the Pays de la Loire of the sub-donated areas, which conditions the aids to the accompaniment of the installation of young surgeons-dentists, dates from 2013 and should be reviewed. At the same time, settled Sarthois practitioners should be able to be accompanied to receive young people during internships but also to set up new collaborations, aimed at welcoming young professionals who want to settle and work in practice with many, ensuring both their fair remuneration and a transition between the completion of studies and the installation. This orientation is now seen in other specialties as well as in general medicine, and recommendations have been made in this direction. Mr Secretary of State, what measures have been taken and are they envisaged to ensure a complete renewal of the Sarthe dental surgeons, thereby guaranteeing our citizens access to dental care? I thank you in advance for your answer, which I hope will be concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u121	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u122	I will try to be as concrete as possible by reminding you of some national developments, which therefore concern the Sarthe and your constituency. The demographic challenge we face is major, as the overall number of liberal practitioners has been declining steadily since 2010, and this decline is likely to continue until 2025. As for dental surgeons, although their numbers have increased from 40,000 in 2012 to 42000 on January 1, 2020, two figures are of particular concern: 50.8 per cent are over 50 years of age and 7.1 per cent are over 65 years of age. Faced with this situation, prior to its abolition from 2020-2021, the numerus clausus for odontology had already developed favourably, with an 11% increase in the number of positions offered in recent years, representing 1,322 positions in 2020, compared to 1,190 in 2011. Given the length of medical studies, which you know well, the effects of these increases are necessarily shifted over time. However, the numerus clausus was considered an inadequate tool for ensuring sufficient and well-distributed coverage of health professionals throughout the national territory. Making a selection based on criteria that are not relevant to medical practice, this system has proved to be a human waste. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the public service contract, which the players have largely appropriated, had been created with the aim of promoting a better distribution of healthcare professionals in the territory. Under this contract, the student undertakes, in return for a monthly aid of 1200 euros gross, to carry out his duties in a territory in tension from the end of his training and for a duration equal to that of the aid. More than 3500 of these contracts have been signed since 2011, including nearly 750 in odontology. Finally, you mention the deployment of internships, an area in which arrangements have also been made. Students in odontology can benefit from the flat-rate accommodation allowance, which is increased to 300 euros per month at the end of 2020, or from the flat-rate transport allowance when internships are carried out in remote territories. Like you, I am convinced that the incentive to co-ordinated exercise is an important lever to act on the attractiveness of the liberal exercise, and thus better take care of patients – the Government has made it a priority for its action. With regard to the Pays de la Loire, and more specifically the Sarthe and Le Mans, the regional health agency – ARS – of the Pays de la Loire works to improve access to the odontological care of the Ligerians and especially the Sarthois. The project to open the Centre for Education and Dental Care, carried out for many years, is entering its final phase with the support of all communities, the order of dental surgeons, liberal professionals, the UFR d'odontologie de Nantes and the Le Mans Hospital. In the long term, this centre will ensure the care of 25,000 patients each year. Therefore, I believe that we have all the levers to act at the national and local levels and to respond to the needs of people in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u123	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u124	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for this information, but I believe that the efforts undertaken must be further scaled up in order to respond to the worrying situation in the Sarthois territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u125	Mr Gérard Leseul, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 1221 on healthcare workers in EHPAD and at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u126	Minister, I would like to come back to the situation of our health care workers in EHPAD, at home and in the hospital, who continue to do tremendous work and are remarkable in their courage to accompany our elders and to treat our patients in particularly difficult health conditions. Our daily health care system is largely due to these women – the majority of whom are staff – who have been carrying the daily comfort of patients for almost a year now. Without their dedication to the lack of clear masks, materials and instructions, and in the face of conflicting injunctions, the situation would be much worse. However, their working conditions have not changed despite your announcements and are still marked by a lack of staff, extended working hours and high rates and workloads. Moreover, the wage developments promised at the time of the famous Ségur de la santé are still difficult to see and concern only part of the caregivers. The territorial agents of the EHPADs are still awaiting the decree provided for in article 48 of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021, which provided for the payment of additional indexary treatment as from 1 September 2020. I also want to talk about the situation of the forgotten people of Segur. Why not have included the entire medical and social sector in the Ségur agreements? Home care providers have been left out and this difference in treatment creates a sense of inequity and misunderstanding, which entails a major risk of demotivation of teams, discouragement, resignation, and even a renunciation of tomorrow's practice in a medico-social sector already suffering from low attractiveness. To ensure a real upgrading of the home professions, professionals in the sector estimate that 500 million euros should be released, plus 100 million euros for travel by staff in the home support and accompaniment services – SAAD. The heads of institutions, associations and major federations note and deeply regret that all these factors exacerbate recruitment difficulties. There is a need for support for all health-care workers, and not only for those in the State civil service: for equal work, the pay must be equal to that of professionals who have already benefited from the wage measures of the Ségur de la santé. For the private sector, this requires a single and extensive collective agreement and, for public service, equal treatment. While our badly shaken health care system remains strongly mobilized to serve the most fragile, are we not able to ensure that all the caregivers who are proud of our country are recognized for their worth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u127	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u128	Mr President, I thank you for drawing my attention to the situation of these professionals whose dedication during the health crisis only recalls the indispensable role for social cohesion, as has been repeatedly repeated for the past year. Aware of the difficulties faced by these professionals, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, has made commitments to assure them the recognition you call for of your wishes. This is first of all the payment of an exceptional premium linked to the covid crisis, intended for EHPAD professionals as home nursing services – SSIAD – and up to 1500 euros, which was a first gesture towards these professionals. On an ongoing basis, the increase in earnings of 183 euros net per month for all staff in EHPAD, recently acquired under the Health Segur, represents an effort of several billion euros. Other measures are being deployed, in particular to train more caregivers, to facilitate recruitment through funding under the Skills Investment Plan – ICP – and thus to increase the number of training places available. As you probably know, Mr Michel Laforcade, former Managing Director of ARS, has been entrusted with a mission on the professions of autonomy, integrating all professionals in the medical and social sector, in order to implement operational and global proposals for the development of these professions. He will also examine the question of a possible extension of the measures taken in the framework of the Secur de la santé, beyond the EHPAD alone. Recovery actions have already been implemented. I am thinking in particular of the financing by the SRA of training and equipment worth more than 20 million euros to promote the quality of life at work, or of the ongoing development of a plan to combat AIDS in the old age sector by the National Health Insurance Fund. These long-term measures are linked to an emergency response linked to the health crisis. An emergency recruitment campaign for older trades, launched with all partners under the responsibility of Minister Brigitte Bourguignon, will help employers find human resources reinforcements for specific needs, but also to recruit long-term staff: here too, it is a question of articulating a long-term structural approach with the need to respond to the urgency of the situation and to offer a bit of respite to the staff who have been working first, second and third in the last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u129	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u130	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for these elements of the response showing that there are plans, but we are waiting for concrete results. On the other hand, some of the measures you are referring to, in particular the salary increase of 183 euros, apply only to public EHPADs: private EHPADs should also benefit from them. Finally, in order for recruitment campaigns to be effective in a context where working conditions are difficult, the proposed functions need to be sufficiently attractive, which requires remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u131	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to put his question, No. 1197, concerning the Beaujon hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u132	On 18 November last, Minister Olivier Véran declared, at a national hospital seminar, that it was necessary to leave entirely the dogma of the reduction of beds in the architectural projects of the hospitals – which I can only subscribe to. At the same time, however, the Grand Paris Nord hospital project provides for the closure of the Bichat and Beaujon hospitals, which would result in a 30% reduction in hospitalization capacity. This is unacceptable. In the current context, this is not just a mistake, but a real health crime! According to the forum published in Le Monde by several doctors and representatives of the users of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance – AP-HP – the objective of this project would be to achieve a occupancy rate of more than 95% of beds: it is still and always necessary to rationalize, as if no lesson had been learned from the dramatic year we have just lived! Of course, this objective will not allow for the reception of unscheduled patients, when it is known that almost 50% of patients arriving at Beaujon's emergencies must already be transferred to another structure, most often private. It is unacceptable to continue a project to close 300 beds. On the contrary, we must strengthen the hospitals Bichat and Beaujon in order to enable them to face the challenges of the time, in particular the long-term health crisis. I was able to talk to the collective that has been defending Beaujon Hospital for years. Mobilizations have made it possible to impose the renovation of emergencies; The maternity service, promised to close because very little productive, has also been renovated. If Beaujon is still standing, it is thanks to forty years of struggle by hospitals, their unions and citizens, who are waiting today for a strong message from you and need an urgent renovation of the hospital. Will you permanently give up the dogma of reducing the number of beds to guarantee a quality care offer, by strengthening the public hospital service in Beaujon and Bichat and in all health facilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u133	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u134	Mr President, it was the concern for quality that guided the decisions taken on the hospital offer in the north and north-east of Paris, in particular with this project of hospital-university campus of the Grand Paris Nord – the CHU GPN – as validated by the public authorities in December 2016. As you know, this is not a mere merger of the Bichat and Beaujon sites, but rather a reorganization of the entire supply of hospital-university care in the north of the metropolis, which is also structured in a way, with the project of the New Lariboisière, to which it is closely linked. The assumption of a renovation of the Beaujon and Bichat sites, originally explored, would have represented a cost identical to that of a total reconstruction, and did not allow to ensure the rebalancing of the provision of care that we collectively wish, and that the implementation of the CHU GPN in Seine-Saint-Denis will make possible. The Beaujon site is less than 1.5 kilometres from the future CHU Grand Paris Nord, whose location will be strategic in that it will cover both the north of Paris and the Hauts-de-Seine, and the east of the Seine-Saint-Denis. This location will benefit from the new transport infrastructure planned under the Greater Paris. The design of this project planned for 2028 took account of the population prospects of France, as well as current and future developments, in terms of healthcare, research and medical innovation. It provides for more outpatient hospitalization places to allow patients, when this is obviously possible, to return to their homes more quickly, which corresponds to a growing expectation of our fellow citizens. It relies above all on a profound reorganization of the modes of care, based on the strengthening of technical platforms and on better collaboration between hospital and city medicine, a problem that extends beyond this single project. The AP-HP also carried out an important internal work with all medical and technical actors in order to draw all the consequences of the crisis that we are going through, by strengthening the adaptability of the existing premises, which had appeared unsatisfactory. That is the main thrust of the reorganization of the hospital-university offer in the north of Paris, in which the Beaujon hospital is fully integrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u135	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u136	It is not for us to express an opposition to the hospital in Greater Paris, but for the Seine-Saint-Denis, which unfortunately suffered an overmortality of 134 % as a result of the crisis and which is facing urgent health needs, it is essential to keep local hospitals, especially the care offers of the hospitals Bichat and Beaujon. It would also be interesting for a study to identify the health needs that were sorely felt in that department. We must think differently about this unprecedented and depressing dramatic situation. Today we cannot stick to what was decided in 2016. We need to review the entire organization, put the partners around a table, rediscuss and do the necessary studies. Keeping hospitals as they are instead of competing with them is what we are asking you today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u137	Mr Guillaume Chiche, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1223, concerning front-line employees in the face of covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u138	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the so-called "front-line" people in the face of covid-19 in terms of salary upgrading or recognition of diplomas: I refer to the public service officers in the hospital of the medical-social services of the home nursing services – SSIAD – or the centres of care, accompaniment and prevention in addictology – CSAPA – as well as the fire safety officers and the agents of prevention and safety of persons and property in the hospital. In the case of SSIAD or CSAPA agents, the Ségur de la santé is an injustice by setting up a difference in treatment between public officials who, with the same determination and self-denial, are sometimes the same in a common structure. These agents, in fact, will not benefit from the increase of the indexary supplement, the famous 183 euros monthly. It is a lack of recognition for their daily action and unwavering mobilization during the health crisis. This inequality of revalorisation also leads to the devalorisation of these forgotten professions. This incomprehensible decision will increase recruitment difficulties, while the missions carried out by these officers are essential. I refuse to treat them, like their patients, as second-rate actors. In addition, I would like to alert you to the situation of fire safety officers and agents for the prevention and security of persons and property. Their versatile functions make their actions an essential part of the operation of our hospital centres. It becomes more than necessary to legislate on a regulated national statute allowing State recognition of SSIAP 1 and SSIAP 2 diplomas for training in the fire safety and personal assistance service. This would allow the harmonization of training pathways and salary scales at the national level rather than on a case-by-case basis, establishment-by-institution basis. This is basically the standard functioning of public services. Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families, what quick solution does the Government intend to bring to these professions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u139	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u140	The agreement of 13 July 2020 of the Ségur de la santé concerning hospital public service personnel includes many measures the scope of which is, let us recall, the result of the negotiations conducted by the parties to the agreement. For example, the additional indexary treatment, which consisted of an increase in the remuneration of 183 euros net per month for the staff of public health institutions, health cooperation groups and EHPADs, aimed as a matter of priority to consolidate the attractiveness of these structures, since this is one of the problems they face, an aspect that does not leave you insensitive, I am convinced. As you know, the Prime Minister entrusted Mr Michel Laforcade on 4 December with a mission to assess the desirability of extending the payment of this supplement to social and medico-social institutions which were not initially included in the Segur negotiations. Other measures of the Ségur are not attached to the place of exercise of the agents and will thus benefit all the staff. This is the case with the construction of a new, more legible and transparent compensation system, the development of professional promotion throughout the career, the stabilization of the organisation of working time and the enhancement of collective commitment. These measures will apply, for example, to fire safety officers and preventive and security agents of persons and property belonging to the workers' corps. This is one of the priorities of the Ségur de la santé for this new year. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that SSIAP training refers to the provisions of an order made by the Ministry of the Interior for all professionals carrying out these tasks, whether they belong to the public or the private sector. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health does not have jurisdiction to amend this order. There are therefore no forgotten Segur, but different temporalities and differentiated measures to be adapted to situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u141	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u142	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that there are different temporalities, but there is a common temporality for all health workers and the population, which is the one imposed by the impact of the health crisis. You are aware that during periods of confinement, there has been a singular increase in addictions, whether tobacco, narcotics or alcohol. Hospital services, particularly CSAPAs, I have seen in my electoral district of Les Deux-Sèvres, have to deal with population pools faced with these addiction problems. Not having awarded the agents who work there the famous extra 183 euros will affect their ability to attract health workers. I hope that Mr Laforcade's work will make it possible to make corrections. With regard to the agents for the prevention and security of property and persons, you indicated that the order for which they were responsible was under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and that work had been undertaken to improve their career paths and salary conditions. Let me strongly urge you to engage in interdepartmental meetings to convince the Ministry of the Interior to move towards this improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u143	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor to put her question, No. 1199, on noise pollution in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u144	I associate my colleague Zivka Park, Member of Parliament for the ninth electoral district of Val-d'Oise, with my question. It addresses a major concern, the protection of public health through the updating of noise maps, which serve as strategic tools for reducing noise pollution in the Île-de-France region, in particular air pollution. Val-d'Oise is particularly exposed to the traffic noises of the airport's air corridors on its territory, Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle, the ninth busiest airport in the world and the second in Europe. The maps that record these noises, as they are developed by the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – DGAC – and Aéroports de Paris, greatly underestimate the current nuisances and do not reflect their impact or the feelings of the populations over which I am a part: I was born in Val-d'Oise, I grew up there, I live there and in almost forty years, I was able to see this dangerous development myself. The consequences have been measured and the results recorded are particularly worrying. According to a publication by Bruitparif of 9 February 2019, the communes of Val-d'Oise are placed in the red: 57% of the population of the agglomeration Roissy-Pays de France is confronted with the exceedance of the threshold of cumulative noise. The health damage has been proven: for the inhabitants of the towns of Val-Parisis such as Eaubonne, Ermont, Franconville or Saint-Leu-la-Forêt, as well as the municipalities of Saint-Prix or Montlignon, it is two years to two and a half years of healthy life lost between sleep disorders, learning disruptions, stress and cardiovascular problems. My responsibility, you will understand, is to sound the alarm bell. It is urgent, I say for the last three years, to adapt the noise map to the real situation of the towns and cities in order to improve in concrete terms the strategy of the quality of the sound environment in my territory, which is really suffering. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister responsible for housing, about the possibility for the Government to organise a consultation phase, including the local elected representatives, to update the noise mapping in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u145	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u146	You and your colleague Zivka Park wanted to question the Government about air traffic noise in Val-d'Oise. Taking into account the health impact of airport nuisances on the population is a major issue: its reduction is one of the Government's priorities. With regard to the nuisance caused by air transport, particular attention is paid to the situation in Ile-de-France and particularly in Val-d'Oise, due to the presence of the Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle platform. The DEBATS – Discussion on the health effects of aircraft noise – study, funded by the Ministry of Transport, is the first large-scale epidemiological research programme in France to assess the effects of aircraft noise exposure on the health of airport residents. This programme was set up in the vicinity of three French airports, among them Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle. As far as noise mapping is concerned, the protection of the riparian populations of this airport is based on a noise exposure plan and a noise discomfort plan. The purpose of the noise exposure plan is to avoid the installation of new populations in areas subject to noise pollution. The current plan, approved in 2007, is based on a long-term assumption of 600,000 movements. The object of the discomfort plan is to define a geographical area of soundproofing of the dwellings of the residents. The traffic assumptions used in this framework are 520000 movements. The number of movements in 2019 – 504836 – did not exceed the traffic assumptions set by these two plans, which remain very protective for residents. Their adoption procedure has been the subject of consultations of the elected representatives in the Consultative Commission on the Environment. The Ministry of Transport remains attentive to these issues and DGAC is at the disposal of elected officials for any clarification and development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u147	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u148	Thank you, Minister, and therefore make an appointment, particularly with the Civil Aviation Directorate. These plans and maps are obsolete, I keep saying. They greatly underestimate the nuisances felt and measured by the populations. After the crisis, the resumption of airport activity will lead to more noise nuisances and increase the health consequences. So it seems to me that we have to go further, at least get around the table to do something again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u149	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Cordier, to put his question, No. 1209, concerning the establishment of an EPR – pressurized water reactor – in Chooz in the Ardennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u150	I wish to draw the Government's attention to the future of the Chooz nuclear power plant in the Ardennes department. The new multi-annual energy programming – EPP – for the period 2019-2028 provides for the closure of certain nuclear reactors but the construction of new ones. The Government is planning to subsidize the construction of six new reactors by EDF to the tune of €25.6 billion. Will he retain the Chooz power plant, at the tip of the Ardennes, to host a new nuclear reactor – remember that this hypothesis has been mentioned for several years? This site is particularly suitable from a geographical point of view. As chairman of the local information committee of the nuclear power plant, I meet regularly with the members of the management, the employees, the residents and I can only welcome the good communication between the various actors. I would add that a graduate technician's certificate "Nuclear Maintenance" has just been created in Givet, still in the Ardennes, to complete the professional "Techniques d'intervention sur installations nucléaires". Thus, a real path of excellence in the field of nuclear energy is developing in the Ardennes territory. The Department needs strong support from the Government. Jobs in the nuclear sector are essential for the Meuse Valley, which is experiencing major economic and social difficulties. The poverty rate is 19.6 per cent, the unemployment rate is 17.4 per cent in the north of the department and more than 10,000 households benefit from active solidarity income. That is why, Madam Minister for Housing, I would like to know the Government's intentions regarding the hosting of a new EPR in Chooz. The elected representatives and the inhabitants of those territories hoped for a strong gesture on his part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u151	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u152	Achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 implies that, in the long term, the electric mix is completely decarbonized. Before 2035, new nuclear capabilities do not appear necessary. Beyond that, we must ask ourselves about the new means of producing decarbonated electricity that will have to be built to balance supply and demand as the existing fleet is downgraded. In line with the guidelines of the multi-year energy programming for the period 2019-2028, the Government has launched a programme of work on the electricity mix after 2035; In particular, it will look at the appropriateness and modalities of a possible new nuclear programme, in conjunction with the players in the sector. This work aims to educate the environmental, economic, industrial and competitive issues involved in the deployment of potential new power plants. They also include an in-depth study of several scenarios for the evolution of the electrical system by 2050, including assumptions where renewable energies will reach high proportions, including up to 100%. The findings of these studies are expected in mid-2021. Until decision-making takes place, the industry must demonstrate that it is capable of supporting the construction of new reactors in a timely manner and at predetermined costs. This includes, on the one hand, the commissioning of the Flamanville 3 plant – which will put an end to the numerous industrial difficulties at the site and to significant additional costs – and, on the other hand, the upgrading of the nuclear sector thanks to the action plans defined by EDF and by the sector itself. The first results of these actions cannot be recorded and evaluated for several months. Since no decision in principle has yet been taken on whether to build new reactors, I cannot answer your question completely: it is too early to mention potential sites for post-2035 investments. This choice should be based on an in-depth analysis of local consequences and characteristics; It will, of course, also have to be carried out in consultation with local elected officials and civil society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u153	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u154	You can imagine my disappointment, Madam Deputy Minister, when, only a few months ago, we were insistently talking about the creation of new EPRs in France! I have the impression that the Government is going a little backwards. In any case, the Chooz site remains a candidate for the reception of such a structure. In addition, the establishment of wind turbines is currently the subject of a debate in the Ardennes department. You probably don't know the valley of the Meuse, Madam Deputy Minister, and I invite you: located in the north of the Ardennes, it is close to the Jura and the Vosges and has nothing to do with the south of the department. The installation of wind turbines in this landscape that deserves to be preserved, with its hills and small mountains, gives rise to a rise of shields. As a Member of Parliament for the second electoral district of the Ardennes, I will strongly oppose the establishment of wind turbines in this territory. We are all in favour of alternative energies, but the living environment must be preserved – especially since the Ardennes department already has many wind turbines. There comes a time when you have to say stop. I would add that hydraulic energy is growing considerably in the Meuse Valley. We must redouble our vigilance in this regard; You can count on me, Madam Deputy Minister, so we don't do anything in the Meuse Valley.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u155	Mrs Martine Wonner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question No. 1215 on deep geothermal work in the Strasbourg region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u156	The earth trembles in Strasbourg: since 12 November 2019, no less than ten earthquakes with a magnitude greater than 2 on the Richter scale have been felt in the agglomeration. Fear won the Alsatians on 4 December, when they felt the tremors of an earthquake of a magnitude of 3.6 – intensity described as extraordinary and abnormal by the Bas-Rhin prefecture. These seismic events coincide with the geothermal activity of Fonroche, which carries out tests for the exploitation of a well in the commune of Vendenheim, near Strasbourg. Alsace has a geothermal richness unique in France: in its basement, the waters can reach 200 degrees. No fewer than six geothermal projects are under development in the region, two of which are in my constituency. In view of the abnormal seismic events that have just occurred, the Prefecture has pronounced the definitive cessation of Fonroche's operations in Vendenheim, without calling into question the other projects in progress. But our fellow citizens – and the chosen one I am – ask themselves. Continuing to send water at a depth of 5000 metres, in an already sensitive and unstable geological fault, is a risky bet, to say the least, given the scientific knowledge available, at a time when our fellow citizens multiply the declarations of damage to their homes. Knowing that Fonroche is being asked to close the Vendenheim site in which it has invested EUR 100 million, and knowing that the Government has announced the end of the subsidies for the generation of electricity from deep geothermal energy, what guarantees has the State provided to operators to strengthen their investments? What are the prospects for geothermal energy in Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u157	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u158	You rightly draw the Government's attention to the seismic events in Strasbourg since November 2019. As you pointed out, since the first incidents, Fonroche has ceased operations in Vendenheim, in accordance with the prefectural decree which provides for seismic monitoring and a suspension of work when the earthquakes exceed a magnitude of 2 on the Richter scale. After third-party expertise by the National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks – INERIS – and the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – BRGM –, tracing tests were allowed to determine whether geothermal drilling was the cause of the incidents. A new tremor took place on 4 December 2020. By a prefectural order of 7 December, the prefect ordered the arrest of the geothermal loop. Even if there has been no significant material damage – the magnitude has not exceeded 3.6 – cracks have appeared in some buildings, which will be covered, in accordance with the provisions of the mining code relating to the liability of the holder for damage. This is the first incident exceeding a magnitude of 3 in France. A committee of experts, proposed by the departments of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, will soon be set up to draw lessons from recent events, induced or likely to be induced by deep geothermal energy. It should be noted that these risks do not concern surface geothermal energy or deep geothermal energy at low temperatures on aquifers – not faults – which have been operating safely for more than fifty years. Geothermal energy remains a renewable energy that can help us reduce our carbon footprint, but it needs to be developed in the best safety conditions for our citizens. The Ministry of Environmental Transition is very attentive to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u159	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u160	Thank you for the first answer, Madam Deputy Minister, although you have not informed me about the state guarantees in the face of the investments already made by Fonroche and its financial commitments. Understand that the Alsatians have truly been afraid, including those who live far away from Strasbourg – I myself reside outside the city, and we have all felt, in rural areas, this tremor of a magnitude of 3.6. Can the proponent Fonroche be allowed to continue its activities at different sites, two of which are in my constituency? We call for firm commitments to be made so that the Alsatians are not subjected to experiments, and that Alsace does not become an uncontrollable laboratory of geothermal energy. I recall that our territory has a deep flaw. We will be attentive to the results of the expertise, but we will not be able to let Fonroche do anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u161	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to put her question, No 1213, on the minimum rate of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u162	I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister Delegate, to section 55 of the Urban Solidarity and Renewal Act, known as the SRU Act, which requires some municipalities with more than 3500 inhabitants to reach 20%, and now 25% of social housing. Villeneuve-Loubet and Saint-Laurent-du-Var, communes in my electoral district classified as deficient in this area, are heavily penalized for not having built enough social housing during the last three-year period, and have to pay heavy penalties. Villeneuve-Loubet has however built 233 housing units, even though 70% of its territory is classified as a natural area – a large part of which is in Natura 2000. The remaining 30% are constructable, but are largely at risk of flooding. Despite this, it is forced to build 761 housing units between 2019 and 2022, that is to say more than what was done in fifty-five years! This municipality also suffered major damage during the 2019 floods, which were not taken into account in the balance sheet. The objectives set on paper are disconnected from reality and too often unattainable. The efforts of the municipalities are not sufficiently taken into account, while the mayors implement a proactive policy. These difficulties are common in the Alpes-Maritimes, but also in many other territories. It would be sensible and consistent to modulate the 25 per cent rate of social housing according to history, geography and urban constraints. It is necessary to act and accompany the communes, without penalising them. In addition, the rate of social housing should be calculated on the basis of the number of private principal residences held by municipalities in 2001, the date of entry into force of the Act, and not on the basis of the last three-year contract. In order to best adapt to local specificities, does the Government intend to modify the objectives for the creation of social housing, taking into account the constraints of the territories? Is he prepared to base his assessment on the figures of 2001 in order to know the real rate of effort of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u163	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u164	You have wished to draw my attention to the difficulties which some municipalities have in fulfilling their obligations to produce social housing, arising from article 55 of the SRU Act, particularly when they are subject to the so-called coastal or mountain laws. I would like to remind you that if the SRU law, passed 20 years ago, imposes a minimum rate of social housing on certain municipalities, it is for our citizens to have a permanent rental offer of this kind, which meets the needs of housing applicants – they are still 2 million in France – and among them, the most modest individuals and households. The specific situation of some municipalities is already largely taken into account by the exemption scheme introduced by law. Thus, the decree of 30 December 2019 exempted from the catch-up obligation 232 communes located in isolated, underserved areas, experiencing a low demand for social housing or burdened with inconstructible areas. Moreover, the development of a social housing offer does not necessarily imply new constructions on bare land. The catch-up objectives can also be met by the acquisition and improvement of existing housing, by the densification of space or by the mobilization of the private park agreed with the National Habitat Agency – ANAH. These production methods, which are efficient in their consumption of natural and agricultural spaces, are perfectly suited to limit the expansion of urbanization, in some cases. However, in the face of the questions raised by the application of the SRU law, I entrusted Thierry Repentin, chairman of the SRU national commission, with a task of reflection on the extension of the objectives of this law beyond 2025. Indeed, I hope that we will move away from the cut-off date of 2025, and reaffirm an ambitious goal of producing and distributing social housing in the Territory, taking into account the difficulties encountered during the previous period in the implementation of the scheme. This mission will examine possible developments to be made to the latter due to specific situations. However, the requirement and universality of the scheme must be preserved. Indeed, given the housing crisis in our country and the ever-increasing difficulties faced by our most vulnerable citizens in housing, we must continue our commitment, well distributed throughout the country, to the development of the supply of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u165	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u166	Minister, thank you for not completely closing the door on the future. Mayors receive in their offices many people who encounter difficulties in housing. They know the problem and are willing: they want to build social housing. The penalties they pay to the state – for Villeneuve-Loubet, this represents 3 million euros since 2014 and 6.1 million euros since 2002 – penalize the mayor less than the citizen, since it is social aid and municipal buildings less, many structures that cannot be carried out by the municipality, for example a swimming pool that cannot be built, knowing that it is not these penalties that will necessarily improve the situation. A correlation between prefects, state services, who are on the ground and know the problems, and mayors is essential to define specificities and projects per municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u167	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to put her question, No. 1195, on access to housing for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u168	"It is unacceptable to leave empty houses while there are people dying in the street": it is the words of the activists and citizens who, on 2 January last, in Paris, at the call of several associations, organized a march of requisitions to denounce the state's inaction on the right to housing. While according to the Fondation Abbé Pierre, the number of people living on the street has increased from 143,000 in 2012 to 300,000 today, INSEE estimates that there are about 117,000 unoccupied dwellings in Paris and 400,000 in Île-de-France. The combination of the health crisis and the housing crisis already has dramatic consequences for homeless and poorly housed people. At the same time, 2.5 to 2.8 million households, or 6 to 7 million people, are experiencing unsustainable financial difficulties as a result of housing expenditures, while they face a decline in income from activity. For the past three years, Madam Minister responsible for housing, your Government has refused to take the necessary steps to address this structural problem, not just a cyclical one. Launched in 2017, the plan for housing first and the fight against homelessness, which was supposed to make access to housing a priority for the reintegration of homeless people, is a failure, in the opinion of all actors and actors on the ground. Even your services recognize this in half a word, as indicated by the ministerial instruction of 3 November 2020 on the care of precarious populations, which notes a significant decline in the allocation of housing for these audiences. Expulsions have never been so numerous and the cost of housing so high, and the over-profits of the real estate market continue to rise. A roof is a right and it is the law. The associations urgently ask for the application of the law of requisition – in Paris, for example, seven sites have been identified as capable of housing at least 1300 people –, more means and ambition for a real housing policy first, the construction of at least 150,000 social housing units per year to remove the hundreds of thousands of people currently on the street or in emergency accommodation, the establishment of a fund to compensate rents and charges in order to avoid the time bomb of rental evictions. We support these requests. Madam Minister, when and how do you intend to respond, and especially at what level do you intend to mobilise the rental stock in Île-de-France and at national level to allow access to housing for the most vulnerable and vulnerable populations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u169	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u170	Madam Member, access to housing for those most in difficulty is obviously a priority of my department. The Abbé Pierre Foundation estimates that there are about 300,000 people without housing, without a home, but there are not 300,000 people on the street. At the same time, we fund nearly 200000 nights of traditional common law accommodation every night and nearly 100,000 nights for asylum seekers. I am the first to recognize that there are still people on the street, but the order of magnitude is difficult to quantify. I hope that we will move forward with INSEE and within the framework of the Nuit de la solidarité co-ordinated between the various cities in France. There may be between 10,000 and 20,000 people on the street: it's a lot, it's too much, and we have to find a solution for each of the people involved, but it's important to say that there are no 300,000 people on the street. As part of the management of the health crisis and the care of the most vulnerable, we have opened almost 50,000 additional temporary or permanent accommodation places since the beginning of the year. This effort is, moreover, widely recognised by the associations, which I welcome because they are very often operators of the opening of these places. Since its launch in late 2017, the Housing First Plan has provided 150,000 people with access to housing. It still needs to be accelerated, social housing built and family pensions opened. Nevertheless, the effort is already substantial. This dynamic has led to a real change in public policy and I would obviously like to strengthen it. Finally, we lack social housing. Yes, we approved 90,000 social housing units in France this year while our target was 110,000. That's not satisfactory. I am currently working with Action Logement and social donors to define a more ambitious objective of social housing accreditation in 2021 and 2022, knowing that social housing requires funding – we will be at the meeting – as well as building permits, and therefore political will, which refers to the extension of the SRU law and, more generally, to the mobilisation of local elected representatives, because it is with the agreement of the latter that social housing will be built, in Paris, Île-de-France and in France as a whole. As you can see, the Government is fully mobilized for access to the most modest housing, starting with accommodation – putting a roof above everyone's head – and then for continuity towards housing. Finally, there has never been so little expulsion to France in 2020: fewer than 5000 rental evictions were recorded in 2020, compared to nearly 20,000 in 2019. This is an important effort that was made during the health crisis and confinements and I hope that there will be no expulsion without a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u171	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u172	The assessments of the Fondation Abbé Pierre do mention 300,000 homeless people in France...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u173	But not on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u174	In addition, the Île-de-France region prefecture has received 412 requisition requests for the identified sites, without response to date. As you can see, on the ground, your Government is still not up to this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u175	The floor is open to Mr Sébastien Chenu, to put his question, No. 1225, concerning the starting plan for Hop!.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u176	Madam Minister responsible for housing, my question is about the starting plan put in place by Hop!. The closure of three sites of the airline, a subsidiary of Air France, was announced as inevitable, as well as the abolition of 42% of its staff, i.e. more than 1000 posts. There is clearly a double contradiction. On the one hand, this plan of voluntary departures, a plan to safeguard employment, masks dry redundancies and runs counter to the government's promises that such redundancies would not be possible – I refer you to Mr Djebari's comments. However, the redistribution of the €7 billion State aid plan, which was unfairly redistributed between Air France and its subsidiary, and the takeover of the company's lines without the staff by Transavia, left little prospect other than that of such a conclusion. Moreover, such a directive can of course only predict an economic survival not exceeding the next five years, which will charge a real and social cost to Air France and its staff, already under the yoke of a genuine economic strangulation. On the other hand, in a longer-term approach, the resumption of flights after the epidemic will hopefully mean a return of demand, perhaps even a shock of demand, to low-cost companies. From the perspective of acquisition by Transavia, the major problem of such redundancies then arises from the future economic costs associated with the reputation of these low-priced companies. Dry layoffs, one imagines, will damage the image and reputation of these companies, which are at stake. However, in a post-covid recovery, the reputation of low cost companies will be one of the strong markers, a sine qua non for the profitability of their operations. In the long term, the company's brand and values will be more decisive than broken prices. Finally, the protection of Hop's staff! would improve its added value after the acquisition by a low cost subsidiary. To support the diversification of this segment of the sector through added value is to promote restructuring in terms of organisation and strong customer service image. Only such a structure of low-cost subsidiaries makes it possible to prepare the air transport sector for its recovery, while protecting its staff. In the specific case of the Lille site which concerns me, the abolition of the eighty-eight posts will result in a considerable decline of the French companies in the Hauts-de-France, in favour of an already strong foreign competition. It seems right to review the conclusions on the future of the Hop! subsidiary, providing the company with the means to respond to and through the crisis, and to rethink its overall strategy. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to clarify the measures taken to support the low-cost transport subsidiaries and the protection of Hop's personnel! in the Hauts-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u177	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u178	Mr President, the health crisis that we are going through, of an obviously unprecedented scale, directly affects the transport sector, and in particular the air transport sector. During the first confinement, less than 2% of traffic could be maintained and the average for this second semester, the last known semester, was 30%. Many aircraft remain grounded. Companies are then obliged to take sometimes drastic measures to maintain and sustain their activities. As far as Hop! is concerned, even before the health crisis, the evolution of the air transport market had led the Air France group to take measures to adapt its domestic network, in particular by reducing the number of its aircraft, rationalising its fleet and rethinking its geographical locations. The crisis has amplified the pre-existing difficulties, requiring the development of a plan to safeguard employment. This includes air and maintenance activities. This plan has been the subject of the mandatory information and consultations of the Social and Economic Committee. By 2023, Hop! plans to reduce its offer by 40%, close a large part of its aircrew bases and restrict its aircraft to one type, compared to three before. The Minister of Transport, whom I represent this morning, is fully aware of the economic and social impact of this reorganization for Hop's employees! and for the territories concerned. He therefore requested Air France to pay all necessary attention to the personnel concerned in order to ensure that the majority of them were offered reclassifications in the group and mobility offers or a voluntary departure. A revitalization contract may also be envisaged for closed sites. Finally, Lille should not be affected by the reorganization of Air France's network on the serving part. On the maintenance side, the company will restrict its fleet of aircraft and will therefore refocus its maintenance activities, notably at the Clermont-Ferrand site. The Minister of Transport has nevertheless asked to pay specific attention to the consequences for Lille and will follow the development of the discussions in relation to the potential revitalization obligation to which Air France will be subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u179	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u180	We would have liked to review the overall strategy, in any case participate in redefining a global strategy for these low-cost companies, in particular perhaps with smaller modules and hence less carbon footprints. We would also have liked to talk again about the revitalization contract because, when lines are abandoned, they are immediately taken over by foreign competition. Finally, we would have liked to see how we can develop the Lille site as a reference centre. Again, these proposals we made to the minister have remained unrelenting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u181	Mrs Mireille Clapot, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1204 on nuisances linked to the A7 motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u182	Madam Minister responsible for housing, my question relates to the nuisances caused by the crossing of the A7 motorway in the city of Valencia. This motorway has an average of 70000 vehicles per day, or 25 million per year, resulting in severe noise and visual nuisances for residents, not to mention air pollution. Moreover, this so-called "sun" motorway is a real urban plague that separates the city from the Rhône river and prevents pedestrians from accessing the banks. For several years, various plans and projects have been proposed to address this problem: in 2014, for example, a convention for motorway burial studies or, in 2017, the project proposed by Vinci as part of the motorway recovery plan. More recently, an urban and environmental integration study of the A7 has shown that the stakes are not only local, but also regional and national. In 2018, an ambitious roadmap for Valencia's agglomeration was signed by the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. It foresees 18 concrete actions to capture the topic more broadly by examining the various impacts of this major infrastructure on the population. Nearly half are directly linked to the A7 motorway. They include the use of operating measures to avoid the formation of congestion areas, as well as a study on improving the environmental integration of the motorway. Could you tell us whether you share the view that the issue is national and whether the state plans, in terms of both method and financial support, to support the installation of vegetative noise screens, and to launch the technical study prior to the burial and cover of the Valencia motorway to reconnect the city to the banks of the Rhone river? In short, both in the short term and in the medium and long term, do you hear and see that there is consensus and that solutions are identified and can you tell us how we can move forward on their implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u183	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u184	Madam Member, improving air quality and, more broadly, the issue of noise exposure and the impact of road infrastructure on the living environment are, of course, issues fully identified by the Government. It is with this in mind that in 2018 the minister of the ecological and solidarity transition signed the road map "Air quality" relating to the agglomeration of Valencia that you are referring to. This action programme has several objectives: to put in place measures to operate the A7 motorway in order to avoid the formation of areas of congestion at the law of the agglomeration and, above all, to plan a study on the improvement of the environmental integration of the A7 motorway, followed by the implementation of its conclusions. These conclusions were presented at the last steering committee on 5 October, chaired by the Prefect. In particular, he advocated in the short term the installation of noise protections along the highway and the construction of A7 crossing bridges, which would mitigate the urban cut-off effect that you recalled in your question by focusing on soft modes. I am pleased to confirm that the very special situation of the Valencian agglomeration with regard to the A7 and the related health and living conditions issues lead the Government to support without delay the implementation of a planning programme on the basis of the conclusions presented at this steering committee on 5 October in order to allow the earliest possible implementation of the first developments. It is now appropriate for the parties to agree on how they should be financed. Of course, the ASF dealership of the A7 motorway will be called on to take part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u185	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u186	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. We are actually talking about EUR 7 million to finance vegetation, EUR 35 million for noise-resistant walls and EUR 350 million in the longer term for improving crossings in soft modes. It's both a lot and a little; In any case, it is feasible if the subject is a priority and I have heard in your answer that this was the case. I will therefore make a strong effort to ensure that all private actors, including the concessionaire, Vinci, or Autoroutes du Sud de la France, as well as public, territorial and state actors get around the table, under the aegis of your ministry. This is indeed a major environmental issue and I thank you for the clarification you have given me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u187	Mrs Clémentine Autain spoke of her question, No. 1196, relating to line 17 of the future Metro du Grand Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u188	Madam Minister, my question relates to the realization of Line 17, which is to link Saint-Denis Pleyel station and Le Mesnil-Amelot, crossing thirteen communes and three departments of North-East Île-de-France. This line is very much expected by the inhabitants and by the elected officials, who have mobilized in its favour, because it will allow a smoother traffic and time savings on commuter to suburban routes. It will also make it easier for us to reach Paris and the poles of activity on its periphery. You can imagine how much, as a Member of Parliament for Sevran, Tremblay and Villepinte, I am attached and attentive to the realization of this project, which must allow to connect the area of the Grand Roissy to the Parisian agglomeration, to facilitate access to the exhibition centre of Villepinte and to reduce congestion on the line B of the RER, which, with 900000 daily users, is now saturated. For years, we have been fighting for the priority of public resources to be given to daily transportation, particularly to the renovation of the RER B, rather than to certain projects that have the favor of your government, such as the Charles-de-Gaulle Express, this train of the rich without any interest for the inhabitants. In this connection, I would like to welcome Charlotte Blandiot-Faride, the Communist Mayor of Mitry-Mory, who is fighting with us against this CDG Express project and who has managed to win a significant legal victory. If I ask you today about the fate of line 17, it is because we have been in uncertainty since the challenge of the EuropaCity project, intended by the Mulliez family, which raises the question of the opportunity of creation, not only of a stop on the line at the Gonesse triangle, but of the whole line, since this project was presented as directly related to the Europa City project. I would like you to assure us today that there is no link between the draft line 17 and the development of the Gonesse triangle wanted by the Mulliez family, this large-scale business complex project against which I have been particularly involved, and the mobility issue that has underpinned this line 17 project remains, in my view, unchanged. Can you confirm today that this line will be completed and tell us within what time frame? I look forward to a strong commitment from the Government, as well as the future of the Gonesse triangle. For my part, I defend the project of cooperation for an agricultural, rural and metropolitan ambition of the future, or project CARMA, a circular economy project that allows to preserve agricultural land, including both market gardening, recycling and training in environmental professions. On this fundamental question for Île-de-France, I would like to have your feeling, or even your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u189	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u190	Your question concerns both the Charles-de-Gaulle Express and, above all, the future of Line 17. With regard to the Charles-de-Gaulle Express, I would simply like to point out that its objective is to promote the modal shift from road to rail and to strengthen the attractiveness of the capital region. I would also like to point out that this project provides EUR 500 million of investment for the modernisation of the RER line B, which is indeed a daily line. Line 17 was to serve EuropaCity: it was a sign of our desire to better connect the Gonesse triangle to the great network of transports from France. At the end of the ecological defence council of 7 November 2019, the government announced the abandonment of EuropaCity, but that does not mean that we will abandon this territory. As early as 14 November 2019, Francis Rol-Tanguy was in charge of developing a sustainable development strategy for this south-eastern part of the Val d'Oise department. On the basis of the proposals in the field of public transport and freight contained in the report submitted by Mr. Rol-Tanguy to us in 2020, the Government mandated the Prefect of Val-d'Oise to prepare with the local elected representatives an action plan to be presented, studied and implemented. With regard to line 17 itself, I can confirm to you that its implementation is maintained as provided for in the general scheme of the Greater Paris. This 27-kilometre line will cross well the 13 communes of the departments of Seine-Saint-Denis, Val d'Oise and Seine-et-Marne that were planned and will facilitate the daily lives of nearly 600,000 inhabitants. The health crisis will have an impact on the timetable for this line as well as others: this is the subject of ongoing studies, the results of which will be known by next summer. Attention should also be paid to the follow-up to the legal action brought against the environmental authorisation of line 17, which is obviously likely to have an impact on the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u191	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u192	I note that the State is committed to the draft line 17, that the issue of the Gonesse triangle station remains whole and that the Government is in favour of the CDG Express project. I maintain that it is a train for the rich – 24 euros a journey! – to the detriment of the investments necessary for the RER B line, which is indispensable for the quality of the transport of the daily life of the Francilians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u193	Mrs Stella Dupont, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1201 concerning the prison in the Angevine agglomeration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u194	I do indeed wish to draw the attention of the guard of the seals to the question, so often asked, of the actual construction of a new prison in the Angelian agglomeration. The prison in Angers, built in 1856, is no longer able to accommodate the inmates and the staff who work there and live there on a daily basis, despite the real will of the successive directorates to renovate the cells and living spaces. This facility is too old to accommodate its occupants properly. Due to the layout of the premises and the overcrowding in prisons, some detainees are forced to be two or even three per cell. The observation has been unappealable for many years, all recognizing the oldness of the place. After several visits by the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty, who has already alerted the seriousness of the situation, and after visits by several seal guards, we regret that we have nothing new and have not seen this project move forward. The obsolescence and even the insanity of the premises continue to worsen without any concrete progress being made in identifying a precise timetable for the start of the work. In April 2019, visiting the prison, Nicole Belloubet confirmed the construction of a new establishment on the site of La Bodinière, in the commune of Trélazé, but since then, the dynamics of this project have faded, leaving room for questions, then to worry about this lack of evolution. On the ground, however, we are ready: leadership, staff, magistrates, lawyers, local elected officials, parliamentarians, we unanimously support this project of a new establishment. That is why I think it is necessary for you to enlighten us today. Of course, we hope that the interest of this project will be reaffirmed and that a precise timetable will be presented to us. The construction of a prison takes time and that is why we must act now. We must, through proactive and immediate action, send a strong signal to staff and detainees that they will be able to work and live in places that preserve human dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u195	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u196	Madam Member, the keeper of the seals, Mr.Éric Dupond-Moretti, who could not be present this morning, asked me to answer you and make the link with you. The Angers prison, which was put into service in 1856, has 266 places. The Interregional Directorate of Penitentiary Services in Rennes is very careful to reduce the prison density of the prison structure through the transfer of prisoners to other penitentiaries: while the occupancy rate for this institution was 170 per cent in March 2020, it is now 136 per cent. The prison administration is also making significant maintenance investments in this facility: two operations to standardize fire and rebuild floors are under way, for a total investment of just over €1.4 million. The programme of 15,000 additional prison places provided for by the Law of 23 March 2019 on Programming and Reform of the Justice is being implemented. The projections of the criminal population at the age of 10 make it possible to objectify the new establishment of prisons. The needs are mainly concentrated in Île-de-France, in the Lyon region, in the Mediterranean region and in Occitanie. The programme must also respond to the tense situation in the West Indies and Guyana. The construction of a new prison in the Agglomeration of Angers, envisaged in the municipality of Trelazé, was therefore not able to enter into an operational phase at this stage, since priority had been given to the territories with the highest overcrowding. The guard of the seals wished to receive very soon the elected representatives concerned, of which you are of course part, in order to evoke the future of this prison and it is in this context that the discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u197	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u198	It was important for me to ask this question today and I look forward to meeting again, with the elected representatives of the territory, Mr Dupond-Moretti on this subject. Of course, the priorities invoked are legitimate: I fully understand that we intervene and invest first and foremost in the most critical areas, but we must not forget that the Angers prison, partly classified as a historic monument, is really very old. Fortunately, management is very mobilized and investments are continuing, but there is a time when the reality of the place forces us to move on. Given the time it takes for such a case to be completed, we are, of course, still being mobilised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u199	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to put his question, No. 1194, on the reform of the justice budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u200	My question, which is addressed to the guard of the seals and which may seem technical, relates to the report of the committee of inquiry on the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary, which I had the honour to chair and which delivered its conclusions in September. In particular, this committee has formulated several regulatory recommendations which do not imply any legislative changes other than marginal ones: we propose in its report to improve the visibility of mapping and the functioning of the justice budget. I was astonished when the Directorate of Judicial Services, which exercises a supporting function of the Ministry of Justice, told us that it did not have – in 2020! – analytical accounting. Having managed, in my previous duties, the implementation of the State budget on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, I was somewhat surprised by this news! However, a very precise report has already been given on the matter by Mr Michel Bouvier – a completely independent professor, not an insubmissive or I know nothing else – who, after hearing the heads of jurisdiction and other officials concerned, has presented several proposals which I quote in order of decreasing importance. First: to split the "Justice" mission into two parts would make it possible to distinguish between the judicial organization itself – i.e. the courts, but also the Higher Council of the Judiciary, which is the subject of programme 355, and access to the law – and the administration of justice, i.e. the prison administration, the judicial protection of young people and the activities that correspond to the current programme 310 "The conduct and management of justice policy". This would make it perfectly clear what is within the jurisdiction of the judicial authority itself and what is within the jurisdiction of the administration. Second recommendation: to establish genuine management dialogues. Again, strange claim when we are in 2021! Gilles Accomando, former President of the National Conference of the First Presidents of the Court of Appeal, was interviewed by the Board of Inquiry, who called for a management dialogue with the Ministry on the allocation of means to "refocus decisions on the allocation of appropriations by the Ministry to the level of the true officials of the leaders of the courses", similar to the powers conferred on the management of the National School of the Judiciary. Another simple claim, which I share with the rapporteur of the commission of inquiry, is that each Court of Appeal should be the subject of an operational programme budget – even if my colleague wishes to reduce the number of appeal courts, unlike me. In any event, it seems obvious to me that each Court of Appeal must correspond to a budgetary entity. Is it possible to ask the Supreme Council of the Judiciary to give an opinion prior to the examination of the budget for 2022? If, as we have advocated in the report of the commission of inquiry, this competence is granted to it, it should fall under the law or even the Constitution, but nothing prevents the Government from making this request on its own initiative. Finally, it would be good if the "yellow" budget presented the updated figures on the fight against tax fraud, because the figures of the Ministry of Justice were not provided – nor were those of the Ministry of the Interior – for the 2021 budget, whereas the law imposed it on the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u201	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u202	Mr Dupond-Moretti, whom you are questioning, has instructed me to reply to you and to assure you that the dialogue can naturally continue beyond the answer I am going to give you. First of all, you propose an evolution of the budget model of the Ministry of Justice in order to create a special mission dedicated to judicial justice. However, there is a continuum between criminal justice and the services that prepare and enforce criminal decisions. The disjunction of the "Justice" mission would prevent Parliament from having a complete vision of the functioning of justice. The judicial institution embraces a number of public policies which, for the most part, are inextricably linked. In addition, information technology, human resources and real estate functions are shared and generate efficiency gains for all branches; the related expenditure is grouped into the 310 programme to which you referred. Sharing these resources between two independent missions would undermine efficiency and cross-cuttingity. As for programme 166 and the mapping of operational programme budgets, it would not be a good management, without changing the judicial map itself, to segment too strictly the allocation of funds between each court and each court. Such a change would run counter to the spirit of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, the LOLF, and the desired managerial flexibility. Some small courts could be challenged due to the small volume of resources delegated to them and the lack of room for manoeuvre and further redeployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u203	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u204	I am very disappointed by your answers, Madam Minister, because the proposals resulting from the work of the Committee of Inquiry are also made by its rapporteur, who belongs to the running Republic Group, and by Mr Bouvier, who has interviewed all the justice staff. Rather, they are unanimous in the judicial world. Unfortunately, we prefer to confine ourselves... to what, anyway? Program operational budgets would undermine flexibility, you say; As for me, I am telling you that we need a budgetary decision-maker per entity. It's obvious! Some heads of courts are decision-makers on paper, but are not in practice responsible for budgetary implementation. These anomalies must be rectified in the regulatory area, which is the responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u205	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1125.u206	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Election of one judge and two alternate judges to the Court of Justice of the Republic; Government discussion on youth issues; The meeting is adjourned.
