ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic (No. 3649 corrected, 3797).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u3	We have limited time to discuss a subject that would require a thorough political-philosopheral reflection, as well as the one that presided over the great laws of the Republic on secularism, freedom of the press or the associations to which we are about to touch! Scheduled legislative time and an accelerated procedure are not appropriate for a subject of the magnitude of the one we are about to consider. You repeat that the committee has debated for fifty-five hours and that we are going to debate fifty-five hours again in public sittings, but agree that the laws I have just mentioned have taken much more time to be drafted and adopted. Indeed, the historical, geopolitical and societal reality that we need to address is very complex. To understand all the difficulties our Republic is currently facing, we would probably still need long hours of work. Mr President of the Special Committee, if, in the time allotted to you, you have done what you have been able to do to organise many hearings, acknowledge that they have sometimes had to be cut short. Two or three minutes to hear a philosopher, a religious leader, an association representative or a teacher is obviously not enough. You did with the conditions set for you, but it would have been better to get more time. Let us remember that it took the President of the Republic three and a half years to give us his vision of the problem! So another month would not have been too much to allow us to debate this vision, share it or amend it. If I point out this point in the preamble, it is not to squeeze our discussions, but to make it clear that our intention was in no way to exclude certain issues from the debate. I say this, Mr President, because the excessive interpretation of Article 45 of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u4	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u5	... led to the rejection of amendments from the IDU and independent group and thus to cut short certain debates which the majority did not wish to open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u8	I would like to be explained why, when we propose it, the creation of a criminal offence is not admissible when it is at the initiative of the Government – I will give an example, Minister. We know that it is not you who apply the Assembly's Rules of Procedure; on the other hand, you may be able to free us from it by taking up ideas that would benefit from debate and perhaps even convince you! All religions successively arrived in our territory for a hundred and fifteen years have found their place in the law of 9 December 1905 concerning the separation of churches and the State, even though the text did not provide for them. This law allows for the coexistence of all confessions with mutual respect and that of the general laws of the Republic, which are binding on all. Our aim is therefore not to rewrite this text, nor the others. In reality, we are not here to talk about religion in itself, but to try to stem a phenomenon, I would even say an evil, by which some individuals try to destabilize the Republic because they consider that it does not represent their vision of the world and that they want to impose another society. That they do so under the pretext of a religion is a fact, but it is in fact a hostage-taking of the Muslim religion and of the vast majority of Muslims in our country, who know very well that their religion is compatible with the Republic and its principles. In fact, it is so true – I invite you to think about it – that in Muslim-majority countries this religion adapts to different institutions and laws from one nation to another. It is therefore not a religion that is intended to impose itself on States: it knows how to adapt to all, today and throughout the centuries. A minority must therefore not lead us to cast reproach on worship and Muslim believers of any kind. They themselves refuse to pay the price of this minority's shares and ask us to protect them. This hostage-taking pursues a goal that everyone must be aware of in our country, from the far right to the far left: the Islamist political project is totalitarian. It is carried by people who know well that they are actually few and have no chance of imposing the society they want by majority or democratic means. Their aim is therefore to overcome their weakness and small numbers by dividing us, opposing us and pushing us to confrontation. They want the majority of the national community to end up fearing, then hating our Muslim compatriots, until they separate from them, hoping to make them their allies as they challenge themselves like plague. So think, ladies and gentlemen, of those who have roots in Algeria. Most of them know well what the civil war of Islamists means: hundreds of thousands of deaths, and often in their own families. They know, better than others, how much to be wary of this plague. It is one of the virtues of the debate, Mr Mélenchon, to have enabled all the political forces of the nation to reaffirm in this forum that Muslims and Islamists should not be confused with their totalitarian ideology. The Islamists want to provoke a civil war to destroy our institutions and our laws. To fight them, not to fall into their trap, we must both destroy the soil on which their propaganda thrives and fight any form of hate speech or action against the other in order to limit its freedom, especially of conscience. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] The Islamist minority makes its bed of social disinherence, when populations in difficulty are concentrated in neighbourhoods where the republican promise is no longer fulfilled. However, the concentration of difficulties in certain territories stems from the desire, unfortunately widely shared within our country, for everyone to live together. If there are ghettos of the poor, ladies and gentlemen, it is also because there are ghettos of the rich, who want to stay between them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u10	This is one of the problems that the Republic should also be able to tackle. The betrayal of the republican promise forms the soil in which those who fight us come to gather our compatriots, whom they transform into weapons against us. The Head of State made this diagnosis clear in his speech of the Walls, whose strength I salute. For the first time, direct, courageous and frank comments were made on this subject. Unfortunately, the text presented to us a few months later does not take much account of the fact, at least of our educational, cultural, social and integration failures. The text is therefore inconceivable to us. It aims to better monitor, control, supervise and penalize administrative and associative activities, authorized methods of expression and many other things, but never to draw the solution in the fields of education, training, social and gender mix, geographical and social mobility, simply because the President of the Republic does not believe in collective policies, but only in individual successes. Proof of this is what he did – or rather what he did not do – with the report that Jean-Louis Borloo submitted to him in 2018. Attacking only expressions, actions, but not the roots of evil, the bill does not attack the entire ecosystem that promotes Islamist propaganda. It remains what the text contains and which, to a large extent, brings progress in the protection and defence of the values of the Republic, which it is our responsibility to protect, but also to make love. Beyond the causes, the discourse of the Walls clearly named the problematic consequences: a radical Islam which, as I said, is deviating the Muslim religion in order to make a project of society and state contrary to the Republic to those which it has left at the edge of the road. The observations made by the President of the Republic were fair and lucid, but the solutions were often left in points of suspension. The first version of the text was entitled "Bill to Combat Separatism", with the use of the plural giving rise to our questions. Finally, when it was presented to the Council of Ministers on 9 December – a date that obviously had nothing anecdotal – the notion of separatism had disappeared from the bill, in which radical and political Islamism is never mentioned, except in the explanatory memorandum, and whose social measures have completely disappeared. For example, the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Minister for Citizenship, the text you are presenting to us is difficult to understand for a number of reasons. When it is read, it is impossible to understand what its real target is. It deals with a multitude of subjects, from the neutrality of public service to online hatred, family education or the dignity of the human person, and is sometimes lost in the details of isolated or marginal situations. Above all, he tries to deal with the consequences without addressing the causes. From a clear objective set out by the Head of State we have moved on to a bill that amends the pillars of the Republic, the 1905 Act, the major laws on schools and the 1 July 1901 law on the contract of association, which deals with freedom of association. In the end, the text takes the risk of missing its target – which, in our view, is its main problem. First of all, we want to prevent the bill from being limited to a proclamation and only declarative, without effective application on the ground: in short, a programming law without real programming to make it live. We are aware that the exercise is difficult, Minister, Minister Delegate. We must not deny the difficulties, but we must not feed the defences. Things have to be said and I want to thank the Government for finally doing so in this House. What's the goal? What's the opponent? You named them both in your speeches. We would have liked them to appear in the text as well. The purpose of this bill is to apply primarily to totalitarian political Islamism, not to the Muslim religion, to a political project that distorts this religion in order to impose another project, which clearly combats the values that make us French and Republicans. First of all, we share the affirmation of neutrality in public services. The public service is an entity that must be particularly protected from any attempt to proselytize and influence. It's our common good, our condominium. No body, no individual can attempt to water it or transform it to impose his vision of the world. The duty of all agents and those who direct them is also accompanied by their enhanced protection, since it is now known that they can be pressured even to the point of deadly violence. That is why we will make proposals to ensure that the reporting mechanism they benefit from is actually applied. Beyond civil servants and elected officials, the protection of all our citizens is a priority. That is why we are proposing better criminalization of dramatic events such as those that have recently occurred in our country, that have gone almost unnoticed and that have not been penalised – it is precisely on this point, Minister, that we have encountered the excessive interpretation of section 45. In Dijon, hordes of Chechens came to attack Maghrébins. At Décines-Charpieu, young Turks – the "grey wolves", a group that you have rightly dissolved, minister – sought to make a "arminiade", with reference to what was once called a ratonnade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the first time since 1945 that ethnic groups in our country have come together twice to attack other ethnic groups, without criminal sanctions being imposed on their perpetrators, since there is no specific crime in this area! However, it is not the same thing to show racism individually, which is condemnable and must be punished, and to meet, as was done before the Second World War in Germany but also in France, to attack another ethnic group because of its origin: it is even more serious and should be considered a particular crime against the Republic! The IDU and independent group wanted to introduce this offence into the bill because it would help to combat separatism. Unfortunately, Mr rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II, you felt that this was not the purpose of the text. Mr Minister, since you are not subject to the same rules as Members, I would ask you to take up our view that such acts are a crime against the Republic and must therefore be severely punished. I cannot accept that in Decines-Charpieu, people who have gathered to attack Armenians have only been verbalized for non-respect of curfew! I know that you share my position and I ask you to reflect on our proposal, at least in the context of the parliamentary shuttle. The phenomenon of Islamism is often insidious because it uses the flaws of our law. In this regard, the funding of cultural associations – particularly foreign ones – is a major topic. A large part of your bill deals with this point; We support the proposed measures, but the mechanism seems incomplete to us and we will come back to it in the discussion of the articles. Two points should draw our attention. The first relates to the financing of cults: we believe, like one of your illustrious predecessors, Dominique de Villepin, that it is necessary to separate the accounts better, and we will make you a proposal in this direction. Efforts must also be made to better separate the donor from the recipient. Indeed, in this regard, the donor can obviously seek to exert excessive influence – indeed, it is true whatever the religion concerned – on the one who receives, whether a priest, an imam, a pastor or a rabbi, or a church, a mosque, a temple or a synagogue. That is why we believe that any funding for a religion should go through a foundation, which would receive the donations and distribute them, in order to avoid a direct link between the donor and the recipient. We will have an opportunity to discuss it a little later. But the most necessary reform relates specifically to Muslim worship. It must allow Muslims to consider the CFCM – the French Council of Muslim Worship – as a body that truly represents them. It was a happy initiative on the part of President Sarkozy to create an institution that would be the State's interlocutor. But as an elected representative of a popular suburb where many Muslim fellow Muslims live, I am struck to see that for years they have not considered the CFCM to be speaking on their behalf. They do not consider it representative, for a simple reason: they did not participate in the appointment of its members. Imagine a National Assembly that would not have been elected by every citizen wishing to vote, but by delegates whose weight would depend on the surface of the house. This is exactly what goes on for the CFCM since the electorate is not made up of all Muslims, but determined for each place of worship by its surface. It is an unsatisfactory method of election that needs to be changed: it seems to me, minister, that you should address this issue. Finally, you say that associations must respect secularism. I think you are right, as it is true that political Islamism sometimes seeks – this is not the case for all associations – to play in the margins, to circumvent the rules, to insinuate itself in order to impose itself better than to assert itself on the front. The chapter on online hate contains various measures that we support, just as we supported Mrs Laetitia Avia's bill. Platforms must take their full part in combating hateful content on the Internet, but we believe that it is equally essential to address the issue of online anonymity, because there is nothing legitimate that it is so protective of those who commit offences comfortably hidden under pseudonyms. This is a paradox: most of the statements that are made on social networks would not be made on the street with open faces. The Internet is supposed to be a virtual space, but it is just as public as the real space: everyone should be as personally identifiable as on the street. This difference between street and social media should be addressed, except for a few professionals, including journalists, who have always been able to write under pseudonym but who, under the law, must be held accountable for their actions. The provisions on the rights of persons refer to practices that are more cultural than cultural, Madam Minister for Citizenship. We validate the principle, which is to impose clear prohibitions in the law; We hope that this will be followed by the facts, which will require resources. I now turn to the issue of family education and education. It is the most unbalanced part of your bill: it is clearly outside the framework of a text against separatism to express an ideology that I call secularism and which, in my view, is the opposite of secularism. As we have seen during the debates in committee, this ideology wants to impose its vision of education by the state by denying the right of the family to provide for the education of its children while respecting republican values. This is precisely contrary to the principle of freedom of education, and I do not think it is constitutional. Based on a legitimate fear – the capture of children in the service of an ideology – the Government makes false, undocumented observations that will undermine the freedom of family education, penalizing a majority of families who make this choice without posing any problem to the Republic, to reach only a small minority of radical sects and Islamists. As we said in committee, it is the controls that are lacking. We were told that they were carried out too late, six or nine months after the statement of instruction in the family. But it would be enough to put the necessary means in order for them to be able to do so within a month or two! You tell us that it would require far too much staff, but it is a lie that we will work to disassemble in the coming days: there would not be many jobs to create to meet needs. In particular, specialized agents should be recruited, capable of detecting what is indeed a danger to the child and to the Republic, in order to allow other projects to be built in a climate of trust. It is enough to carry out checks, because trust does not exclude control. You have completely reversed the logic: where it was necessary so far to declare the family education which was then subject to checks, you have decided that prior authorizations should now be issued. But on what basis? On what basis are you going to judge that parents are able to build their child's educational path at home, even before they begin to do so? Their origin? Their religion? Their social level? Their level of training? In fact, you can only do this from the moment the project started. We believe that national education should help define this project and then monitor it very clearly. On the other hand, we do not think that she alone knows how to educate children, contrary to what the rapporteur for Chapter V of Title I and the minister said in committee. Moreover, in the speech delivered by the President of the Republic to the Walls, it was not a question of authorizing but of prohibiting home-based education. It was only because the Council of State had said that such a measure was contrary to a fundamental freedom that the prohibition turned into an obligation to obtain an authorization. It is also paradoxical that no authorization is required for non-contracted schools, while it would be necessary to obtain one for the IEF – family education. This shows that you have less confidence in families than in out-of-contract schools that have refused to enter into a contractual relationship with the Republic. This reasoning seems curious to us. Finally, we believe it is essential to strengthen the exchange of information between the Government and local elected officials, in particular mayors. For example, it would be desirable for them to have access to certain files, in order to better prevent the drifts that we all want to fight. But it would also be necessary, Mr and Madam Ministers, for information-sharing to take other forms. I take an example: your bill legitimately states that funding should only be allocated to associations that respect the principles of the Republic, including secularism. The supervision of these associations may be carried out by their federation or, for example, by the delegates of the prefect; In any case, it will most often be done by state authorities. Information that may be relevant to abnormal practices may be derived from territorial information; In the absence of regular and structured exchanges between services, control is likely to be ineffective. While we want to proclaim a principle that we share – I was talking about earlier – we also want to allow these exchanges to give rise to more real control, so that the principle is actually respected. Indeed, it is not easy to determine that a prayer or a religious rite that has no place in a secular association is practiced in a particular association, at a particular time. It would therefore be a good idea for State and municipal services to exchange information on the subject. While we agree with the Government on the initial findings and objectives to be achieved, we do not always agree with the proposed solutions. We will see if you are really open to discussion, while our right of amendment has been largely restricted, limiting our subjects of debate. The Republic is ambitious; It cannot be based solely on checks and penalties. It is, of course, combative if it is attacked, but it is also humanistic, in the same way as the principles that this bill apparently wants to reinforce respect for. In order to restore its strength and continue to be "the ultimate refuge of common sense", as Guy Carcassonne said, it must be strengthened in all its components, particularly in the field of education and inclusion, which is lacking in the text as it stands. According to our Constitution, the Republic is secular and indivisible, but it is also social. This is how integration must be led, unlike the separatists. If we support this text as a whole, we therefore regret that it is not the great republican law announced. To tell you everything, the progress that it will make will be far less important than that achieved by the Head of State and the Minister of the Interior through the adoption of the Charter of Principles for Islam of France, which must be credited to you, Minister, as well as to that of the President of the Republic. This charter, signed by the imams of France, contains much more effective weapons to combat separatism than this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u12	These weapons will also be useful to parliamentarians, local elected officials, sports leaders, cultural educators, street educators, police officers, magistrates, officials who are constantly having to decide on the compatibility of a particular interpretation of Islam with the Republic. This is a text which it was pleasant to read and which it will be pleasant to defend; it is to be credited to this quinquennium. If the IDU and independent group will support the bill, I regret that you did not give it the same ambition and strength, in order to show that the state was prepared to remedy its own dysfunctions and reassure those we leave at the edge of the road and who sometimes doubt their natural vocation to be, as well, French. This text is a translation of political will, but it must now be applied in practice on the ground. It must also be accompanied by means at the service of inclusion, education and integration, which are currently lacking. It would be a great message from the Republic for everyone to adhere to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u13	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u14	No lasting political regime impelled itself in the hearts of peoples by force. They all succeeded by the love of their principles. A great Republican said, "No one likes armed missionaries." It was Robespierre. Yes, every republican must act constantly to make the Republic and its founding principles love. This task of conviction – once called "republican virtue" –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u15	Long live virtue!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u16	...cannot consist of a succession of vexations and suspicions towards some of our fellow citizens and their cult associations, in the name of supposed ties or a complacency never demonstrated with terrorist acts that all have always condemned publicly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u18	Yes, Minister, we have an ideological battle to wage, as you said this morning. But only ideas of progress and justice can prevail over other ideas. Your text does not seek citizens' support anywhere; To achieve this objective would involve the enhancement of acquired rights or the acquisition of new rights. On the contrary, one third of the articles reinforce existing control mechanisms, while a quarter of them essentially define prison sentences. Where is the great text of freedom that some speakers have praised this afternoon? Strange paradox: recent governments claim to be drunken with the words of the Republic and secularism, but their policies are moving away from it as never before. For while the Republic has real armed enemies, especially those who recently attacked it in the name of a violent and obscurantist political Islamism – but they are not the only ones to arm themselves against the Republic, the extreme right is also watching – it also has false friends, who keep talking about it, loudly and on its behalf, but who have been destroying it from within, for years, especially through ultraliberal policies that increase social inequalities and cast doubt on it. Nature abhors the emptiness: the same is true in politics and when the Republic recedes, the political and social vacuum that it leaves is gradually filled with other rules, sometimes derived from reassuring customs and traditions, sometimes woven by local solidarity, but other times exalting identity or religious particularisms that cease to build from the common and entangle citizens in irreducible identities. But let us not be simplistic. Poverty and social relegation – these particularisms more than desired, as the Stasi commission said in 2003 – are not enough to explain the psychological dynamics leading a man, who has become drunk with religious fanaticism, to assassinate members of a satirical newspaper or clients of a kosher business, to decapitate a teacher or to kill faithful in a church. It is you who, in the explanatory memorandum to this text, have made a questionable link between rigoristic religious practices and the attacks that have bereaved us. The debate that is opening must not be an occasion for a great spill of hatred that would only further dislocate our nation. It is therefore necessary to clarify the words. What republican principles do you want to see respected? Do not go far, they are found in our republican motto, "freedom, equality, fraternity", and in our Constitution, article 1 of which proclaims that the Republic is "secular, democratic and social. These three principles work together, as the entire history of our country shows. If you forget one, the other two don't make any sense anymore. Collègues de La République en marche, are you really comfortable? Do you think you have respected these three principles since 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u19	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u20	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Where is the Democratic Republic when power is more concentrated than ever in the hands of one man? As we go through an unprecedented health crisis, the main decisions are made by a man or a defence council made up of people, some of whom are not even elected! Where is democracy when we get used to the fact that only 25% or 30% of our citizens vote in the middle elections and that we represent only 20% of the voters registered in our constituencies? That the vast majority of our citizens no longer vote for us poses a democratic problem that undermines the Republic and its principles. Where is the Social Republic when almost 10 million of our citizens, or 15 per cent of the population, live below the poverty line? How dare you give republican lessons when you let this profoundly anti-republican scourge develop? Where is the secular Republic, a condition of freedom of conscience, of the right to believe or not to believe, a guarantee of freedom of worship but also of the freedom to criticize them? After centuries of evil alliance between the temporal and spiritual powers, between the sword and the pin as it was said, secularism proceeded to a strict separation of the state – something common to all – and the churches. The act of birth of secularism is an act of separatism. The State must ensure its neutrality, as well as that of its representatives and also of its elected representatives – I will return to that. On the other hand, it must leave the citizens alone: they do not have to respect the principle of neutrality. Secularism is neither atheism nor state anticlericalism, an even more odious attitude when, in the name of a misunderstood secularism, one struggles against worship while demonstrating complacency towards others. The republican state must not finance any worship. Are these great principles being respected at present? Alas, no. What became of the great promise of 1905? Unfortunately, she's trampled. Your secularism is often variable in geometry, which makes it neither understandable nor convincing to millions of our fellow citizens. That is the paradox: you call for respect for republican principles in the title of your bill, but you trample them on by your economic and social policies. It is clear that you often misunderstand what secularism is. A confused mix of display and labeling measures, your text is prolixed about certain practices that we all condemn and that are often already prohibited by law, without questioning the cause of their persistence or development. In this regard, all the colleagues who have participated in the work of the Special Committee remain hungry for figures, shared facts and statistics: we know very little about these phenomena on which we are legislating. On the other hand, your text is silent and devoid of courage about the terrible problems that are worsening and which call into question the respect of our republican principles: poverty, unemployment, deterioration of public services, damaged public school, police without means, transport systems often of low quality in the working-class neighbourhoods, hospital and ill-treated health system. That's what calls into question republican principles! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Why do 100,000 children leave the school system every year without any qualifications?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u22	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u23	Why do we remain unreacting on the fate of the 50,000, 600,000, or even 800,000 children who are in families with sectarian practices? We have not really been able, through the inter-ministerial mission of vigilance and combating sectarian drifts – MIVILUDES – to understand these phenomena that put children at risk. Suspicious of the cult and cult associations of some, Muslims, this text strengthens the administrative power to the detriment of the judiciary. Let us take a few examples. In the future, 100 % of the associations, I say well all the associations in our country, whatever their activity, whether sports or cultural, will have to comply with a contract of engagement republican which we knew nothing about until a few hours ago we reached a text with rather strange content. Will the Republican contract of engagement be this mixture of great generalities already included in the 1901 law and new measures such as the commitment to refrain from abusive proselytism? I must confess, Madam Deputy Minister, that this has left me with a dream. Of two things one: either the public funds finance associations that make religious proselytism, which I am opposed to, or you are prepared to tolerate that cult associations be financed by public money, provided that their proselytism is not too abusive. Admit it's all pretty blurry. Rather than pointing it out, we should help the community movement, which is often the last network to establish links between citizens and the Republic. Why compel associations to adopt a charter that is likely to be of questionable effectiveness? Cultural associations will be more controlled, if not suspected, with regard to some of them, mainly Muslim religious associations. This text attacks all religions in the same way, you said. That's not true. You ask the associations that appoint the Minister of Worship to set up a new system of organization, including collective bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u24	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u25	Don't say no, it's reality! With your so-called anti-putsch device, you manifest what I consider to be a form of condescending towards Muslims, asking them in a way to better organize themselves, in a democratic way. You do not have this requirement vis-à-vis other cults. This is the paradox! History shows us that, in the face of the Vatican's resistance to the cult associations provided for by the 1905 law, evoked this afternoon by President Mélenchon, the Republic had found a compromise in 1907: the so-called diocesan associations, accepted by the Catholic Church in 1923 and 1924. The Catholic Church fearing a break-up, a schism, it was accepted – probably rightly – that diocesan associations should be placed under the authority of a bishop. As other colleagues have already said, the 1905 law translates a liberal view of religions and allows cults the freedom to organize themselves. Why ask some cult associations to organize differently on the pretext that they would appoint their minister of worship? It is the Muslims who are targeted, but in passing Protestants are also called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u26	It's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u27	Why have a democratic requirement for worship? For my part, I do not demand that the Catholic Church should have a democratic functioning. I belong to a spiritual school that even leads me to think that religions are not democracies, as the Vatican said, during the debates of the late nineteenth century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u29	In addition to this increased control over cultural associations, you are extending the possibilities of administrative dissolution without going through justice, which poses a fundamental problem for us. Yes, sometimes you have to dissolve, strike, condemn. But justice must do it! Beware of those who increase administrative powers: they engage on a slope that often leads to the limitation of public freedoms. Mr. Keeper of the Seals is no longer there, but I affirm that it is a liberty to give ever more powers to the Prefects and to give ever less to justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u30	The Minister of Public Liberties, it's me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u31	We're reassured! The 1905 law will be weakened. What a strange paradox since you're asking for it! As you sometimes have humor, you said this morning, on a large public radio station, that the President of the Republic was the first defender of secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u32	Yeah, so what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u33	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Well, I don't believe it. You may have claimed Aristide, your text is not "Briand"
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u34	Ah, that's funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u35	... with regard to secularism and the law of 1905. Article 19 of the 1905 Act provided that religious associations must have "the sole purpose of worship". This will no longer be the case since they will be responsible for the administration of reporting assets. For my part, I think they're there for worship, not to run buildings. I do not agree with this evolution towards the North American model in which religious associations and religions are as much businesses as places where believers find themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u36	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u37	Let's take care of this! This same debate took place in 1905, about what was called the fear of Pascal's bet: the religious put pressure on the faithful, on their deathbed, so that they would give to the churches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u38	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u39	Indeed, then let us not allow it even more! Since you are considering setting a ceiling, rapporteur-general, it is good that you think, like me, that there is a risk. You're right. Our amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u40	The ones we were able to drop off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u41	... aim to define a Republic in acts, but you prohibit the discussion of many of them: of the 106 that we have tabled, there may be 36 that have already been declared inadmissible. This is a pity and sometimes totally incomprehensible, especially in the case of those who tend to strengthen MIVILUDES, an indispensable tool to combat sectarian drifts that affect nearly 500,000 of our fellow citizens. Why can't we discuss those who propose to punish mayors who do not respect the social housing quotas imposed by law more severely? As President Lagarde said, there is a great absence in this text: the process, mentioned by the President of the Republic in his speech of the Walls, of ghettoization of the country, this separatism that we ourselves have built, he said. His remarks echoed those of a Prime Minister whom I never bore in my heart, Manuel Valls, who had spoken of "social apartheid" in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u42	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u43	While the strength of these words should lead us to act to break social ghettos, this dimension is completely absent from the text. That's a problem. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This text is useless in the fight against terrorism, but you do. Friends of our fellow citizens who look at us, do not believe that this text will provide an additional tool for our police and intelligence services to act against terrorism. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u44	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u45	Do not believe that this text will strengthen the PHAROS system – a platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts – to combat online hatred: this is not the purpose of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u46	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u47	We voted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] To speak of another great absence from this text, I will use the word separatism that you use. If there is one that undermines the foundation of the Republic, it is school separatism. There is a serious threat to the Republic, as our children attend different schools depending on the social environment from which they come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u49	It's been a while!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u50	We must act very quickly against this phenomenon because our schools have never been so unequal. In private schools, the percentage of children in the most favoured classes is twice as high as 30 years ago, and is now twice as high as the number of children in public schools. Even among the public, the school is not the same in a college in my department of Seine-Saint-Denis and a college in Paris. The most favoured live in some neighbourhoods and the most disadvantaged are concentrated in some settlements. We must act as quickly as possible against this terrible separatism. Since 1959, private schools have been financed by public funds. This separatism costs EUR 12 billion a year, or 20% of income tax revenues. These funds finance competition from the public service. Is there another public service whose competition we finance with public money? Let's imagine a person who travels by taxi because he refuses to take the bus. Will she ask the state to pay back her taxi trips?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u51	A confessional taxi?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u52	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] But that's what we do with the school: we fund the competition. There's a problem here. I don't know what you're saying, minister, but that doesn't seem very interesting and irrelevant to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u53	You didn't want to reopen the schools!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u54	You're talking about confessional taxis, I'll listen to you later. I'm telling you that public funding for private school is a problem. This separatism even affects our elites: in 1950, 30% of students at the École des hautes études commerciales in Paris – HEC –, the École nationale d'administration – ENA – or the École nationale supérieure – ENS – were from disadvantaged backgrounds; The current rate is 9 per cent. Even the schools of our elites are the resonant body of terrible inequality. It is against this that we must act, by reviving the taste of a conquering public school. We must guarantee, especially in Seine-Saint-Denis, that an absent teacher is immediately replaced. School support must be guaranteed. It must be ensured that there is no more undue circumvention of the school card. We must ensure that all laws that create a boon effect for private schools – notably the Carle and Blanquer laws – are repealed. Do you know that by making schooling compulsory for children from the age of three years, the Blanquer law has had the effect of bringing in an additional €100 million of public money to private school?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u56	The municipality where I live, Bagnolet, the poorest in France, had to pay the private school another 150000 euros. This is outrageous! This public money could have financed breakfasts at the public school. That's what we should do! We must put an end to out-of-contract schools and organize a debate on family education – a subject that has nothing to do with this text. I want to be loyal to the families who have made this choice: I prefer public school, but I understand the vexation of the families who are embedded in a bill that has as its starting point the fight against political Islamism. What does it have to do with family education? The first step should be to strengthen controls by guaranteeing, as we propose, at least two visits per year. Do you know that at present only 69% of families are visited annually? The Minister of National Education was concerned that family education was becoming a vector of radicalization or obscurantism, but he did not provide the means to ensure that 30 per cent of the children concerned were monitored per year. Thus, 20,000 children see no one of the year. It is on this that we must act, but it is not the purpose of this text. We should also repeal the tax deductions for religious associations, in order not to finance worship with public money, in violation of the 1905 law. According to economist Thomas Piketty, it is 200 million euros of public money that escapes the revenues of the state, while they could be used to finance a better public school. We have tabled an amendment proposing to repeal this tax niche. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, I will be clear: it is time to put an end to the concordat of Alsace-Moselle, which represents an anti-laic aberration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u57	Anything! Take an example on Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u58	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, an anti-laic aberration! Mr. Minister of the Interior, you told me in committee that this was a legacy of history. With such an argument, nothing would be done because, as a result of history, until the 1970s, women had no voice in the choice of marital home and had to ask their husbands for permission to open a bank account. This breach of the 1905 Act must be repealed. Right-wing colleagues, listen to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minot, let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u60	[[Same movements]] The agreement of Alsace-Moselle, which costs 60 million euros of public money each year, must be repealed, these sums being not even financed by the Alsatians and the Mosellans. This exceptional status is financed by the national community. Why should we pay the salaries of pastors, priests and rabbis there – a privilege that we do not grant to all cults, Muslims being excluded? It's a scandal. Above all, to justify the concordat, you argue particularisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u61	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u62	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Same movements]] But in this case, any citizen can refuse to apply secularism by saying: it's not my history, it's not my culture! When you are a Republican, you follow a simple rule: the law is the same for everyone everywhere. It is therefore time that this exception, due to our painful and centuries-old history, be repealed. No Alsatian among you has lived the German occupation, at least I suppose or he has passed the age of being here! Stop it, you know it's not serious! Similarly, Charles X's order in Guyana must be repealed, as well as all exceptions to the 1905 law. By the way, the amendments made to this text by the Act of 25 December 1942 – each one will have noted the date, which is at the time of Marshal Pétain and the Vichy regime – must also be repealed. Do you know that the current drafting of the 1905 law is not that adopted by Aristide Briand, but that modified by Marshal Pétain? In particular, these changes allow the municipalities to finance more the repair of cultural buildings. I'm not in favour of it. [["Yes! On the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In our amendments, we also call for the elected representatives to set an example. All colleagues, so demanding towards our fellow citizens who are neither elected nor civil servants, should have the delicacy to start by being exemplary in their own behaviour. I am not in favour of elected officials participating in religious ceremonies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u63	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u64	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, it is totally incomprehensible that elected officials take part in religious ceremonies. There is no justification for this: neither the seriousness of an event nor its exceptional character. Yes, there is nothing to justify that in Nice, elected representatives take part each year in the Mass to celebrate the vow of Nice, adopted in 1832 when the city dedicated itself to the Virgin to avoid being struck with cholera. Mr. Eric Ciotti, who is not here, and Mr. Christian Estrosi have nothing to do in this mass which they advertise on their municipal material. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In the same way, Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, whom I thank for her frankness,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u65	Anything! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u66	... was shocked by my astonishment when I discovered that in Béziers, a city that is dear to me, the mayor invited all the inhabitants to a municipal mass announced on JCDecaux panels and financed by the money of the commune.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u67	It would be good for you to go to Mass every Sunday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u68	She replied – I quote you, madame, and I salute your consistency: "What is more normal for elected representatives to participate in Masses and processions or to organize them? You quoted the Mass that takes place at the opening of the feria: [...] the mayor of Béziers considered it good to propose to the greatest number of people to participate, whether Christian or not. Thank you, ma'am! Municipal masses are organized in this city with the elected representatives in the first place, but without sectarianism: everyone is welcome, including Muslims. Is it tolerable in the secular republic? All of this has to stop. We must fight against the separatism of the rich, which is expensive for us; we must end those who escape tax: that is the meaning of our amendments. We propose the introduction of the universal tax, the restoration of the ISF – the solidarity tax on wealth – all measures of social justice. [["Ah! »on the benches of the LR group. - "Oh, no! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u69	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The passion that some of you are putting to disturb my point is in the image of the lively, very normal, debate that has been going on for a century. Each of your screams confirms that the position that I defend is in time and that your opposition is also very old. There is no soothing secularism, it has always been a balance of forces. Nothing has been granted, we have torn everything from the churches, who did not want to let go of anything. The latter had their defenders – you are! – who have always considered that there was an official religion in this country, an ancient religion that had more rights than others. I don't agree. Long live the equality of all before the law! The more you scream, the more it confirms that the fight we are fighting is up to date. But, minister, your text – this is its weakness – does not pursue the work of those who wanted to defend the 1905 law and give new rights. No, you weaken the law of 1905; you ask cultural associations – some, not all – to reorganise themselves, without giving citizens the opportunity to strengthen their emancipation through the public school. What is going on in the country is not a desire for separation, but a desire for reparation, that of the damage to the economic policies that have damaged the Republic. We will defend our amendments with loyalty and sincerity, as we did during the examination of the text in the special committee. They are in the continuity of the great secular and republican struggle. Yes, it is in the name of respect for republican principles that we will defend our seventy amendments. Yes, President Mélenchon said, we believe that it is not a service to the Republic to use the words that we love – Republic and secularism – to establish a law of suspects, an era of suspicion towards some of our fellow citizens, especially citizens of Muslim faith. Be careful, colleagues, especially those on the right, that the days that will follow do not give rise to a great flood where women – as always – who wear the veil will be pointed out and presented as possible accomplices of the assassins who hit us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u71	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u72	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Pay attention to your words, for in a country that has never been so tense, which has never wondered more about how to make a nation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u73	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... if it is hate speech and xenophobia that prevails, you will do a very bad service to the Republic. As for us, we will be there to defend all our citizens and to say that the Republic remains a fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u75	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u76	They're not Republicans, they're Crusaders!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, to all those who have sent me texts to make me realize that Mr Corbière had exceeded the speaking time indicated on the yellow sheet, I would remind you that we are in scheduled legislative time and that it is not possible for me to intervene to shorten the speaking time, as long as they remain within the limits of the envelope allocated to each group. The Vice-Presidents of the Assembly who sit this evening know this: I am viscerally opposed to this system, but it is he who will govern our work until the bill that is introduced to us by the Minister of the Interior is voted on. So there's no need to protest. My only concern is to allow all Members on the yellow sheet who wish to speak this evening. I therefore ask everyone to respect the time allowed, not to honor a rule, but to show elegance. If we can collectively do this, it will be appreciated on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u78	The first one who speaks of the evil of Alsace, you cut off the whistle, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u79	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u80	In the face of this text, there is only one important question to ask: will it effectively combat terrorism and separatism? Will the articles that make up it make it possible in practice to reinforce the principles of the Republic, according to the new title of the bill? Will they be working to combat the separatisms that are developing in our country, in accordance with the original name of the text? Above all, will this bill be effective in countering the terrorist threat? It is this last point that interests us all, the elected representatives as well as all the French citizens. It is with these questions in mind that we have studied the text in depth, participated in the hearings, questioned the Government and proposed many amendments in committee, in a constructive spirit, and that we will continue to do so during the two weeks of examination in open session. It seemed to us that the Government and its majority wanted to make this text, presented as an ambitious text, a political marker. This is evidenced by the large number of ministers who were interviewed, who were present throughout the examination in committee, and again in open session. Indeed, the text seems important to us for a number of reasons. It deals with crucial subjects in the fields of public services, public order, education, association and worship; It amends several of our emblematic laws, such as the more than one-hundred-year law of separation from the churches and the state of 1905 or the law of 2 January 1907 concerning the public exercise of cults, or the law of 1882 on education. Finally, it touches – there, Madam and Mr. Ministers, a subject that requires great caution – on several of our fundamental freedoms: freedom to teach, freedom of association, freedom of worship and freedom of communication, to name but a few. I would like to recall that we all believe, as it seems to the Government, that radical Islam – one should say Islamic fundamentalism – is an important threat to our society. We share the expressed will to address this problem and to reaffirm our collective commitment to the fundamental principle of secularism. However, we prefer to say it from the outset, we have not changed our opinion since the examination in committee: as it stands, your text seems to us to be largely missing its target.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u81	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u82	It is intended to be a radical Islam, or rather Islamic fundamentalism, but it seems to us that it will above all make life more complicated for a considerable number of parents, associations and believers of various religions, who are all good Republicans, who respect the rules and who have nothing to do with initially targeted fanaticism. Attention, Madam and Mr. Ministers, to collateral damage! Thus, the sections of the bill can be divided into three broad categories. The first brings together those who will indeed reinforce the principles of the Republic and improve our law; We support them. The second brings together those articles which may be acceptable, but which we believe, despite some improvements in committee, are either useless, because already covered by existing law, or almost inapplicable. Finally, the third category covers those articles which we find dangerous because they violate fundamental freedoms, and which must simply be deleted. Let us start with the first category, with the measures relating to the neutrality of the public service, which are included in Chapter I. It is true that in this respect, we include the jurisprudence of the Council of State in the law. We have tabled several amendments in committee aimed at perfecting the proposed arrangements, clarifying them or highlighting their imperfections; We will submit new ones to the meeting in a constructive spirit. I am thinking first of all of Article 1, which aims to make the principle of neutrality of public service more effective, by extending the obligations of neutrality to private bodies carrying out a public service mission. It is a common-sense measure, and it is necessary to clarify and clarify in the law the scope of application and the applicable sanctioning mechanism – because it is up to the legislator to define the sanctioning mechanisms. Secondly, I am thinking of Article 2, which extends the procedure of accelerated reference to acts of local and regional authorities which violate the principle of neutrality: we propose to extend this procedure to two other types of public institutions, those of education and those of health. We also welcome the measures taken in articles 3, 4 and 5 to protect civil servants. I come to the second category of articles, whose ambition we share but which we often find unnecessary, either because they are already largely covered by existing law or because they are difficult to apply. They are primarily a matter of incantation and display, and contribute to unnecessary legislative proliferation that ultimately risks weakening the law. This is the case with several articles on human dignity. Let us take article 13, which deals with the protection of heirs: it is incomplete, because it does not provide for any arrangements concerning spouses, but only concerns children; Above all, it is difficult to enforce and could lead to endless international litigation – as the representatives of the notariat have pointed out. Articles aimed at combating polygamy are of the same nature, in particular article 15: it provides for the payment of reversion pensions to the first surviving spouse for wives of foreign polygamy, but at the same time specifies that these measures will have to be applied in compliance with France's international commitments. However, France has signed 13 bilateral social security agreements with most polygamy countries, providing for the sharing of reversion pensions. Article 15 is therefore unnecessary, unless the Government undertakes to denounce those conventions. When I put this question to you, Madam Deputy Minister, you first did not want to do anything about it, but it seems that you then made a commitment, in a special committee, to renegotiate these agreements. When will this happen? I hope that you will reiterate this commitment in the House, and above all that it will be followed up in a timely manner. We welcome some progress made in the text thanks to the work of the Special Committee. Let us mention the adoption of an amendment that we have proposed – like many of our colleagues – aimed at punishing, beyond doctors, those who force young girls to ask for pseudo-certificates of virginity. Note, moreover, that some practitioners issue these certificates only to protect individuals, not to circumvent the recommendations of the doctor's order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u83	That's right, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u84	A third category of articles emerges in the text: they contain provisions which we believe violate fundamental freedoms, or which are the subject of debate in our group and in the majority. These include the measures in chapter II relating to associations, in particular article 6, which provides for the creation of a Republican contract of engagement between the State and associations. But the Republic is not a contract! Instead, we should talk about a commitment to respect republican principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u85	That's very true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u86	I was very shocked, Madam Deputy Minister, when I read the press yesterday: when you promised to give us your draft contract before the beginning of the sitting, I discovered it in pieces in Sunday's Journal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u88	The practice is frankly shocking. It had to be distributed to us before it was passed on to the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u89	You received it by e-mail!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u90	Yes, you received it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u91	This convention – since it is a single text – is totally inadequate to the extreme diversity of situations. Articles aimed at combating hatred are also problematic. Article 18 in particular, although amended, still seems imprecise and redundant with the existing law. Measures relating to education were equally problematic: article 21, which sought to restrict family education, from a declaration scheme to an authorization scheme, constituted a clear violation of freedom of education. You dare to say that this bill is a piece of freedom, but the opposite is true of family education!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u92	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u93	Not to mention the constitutional problems that will result, because all this will end before the Constitutional Council. Most homes that practice family education do not have dangerous terrorists or separatists. Moreover, the French terrorists who hit our country have all attended the public school; None of them were educated in his family! What, moreover, is the "best interests of the child", a new reason that will allow families to continue to educate their children as they wish? This qualification as "superior" has always interlocked me: what is therefore a best interest? Finally, many of the measures in Title II relating to the guarantee of the free exercise of worship will create administrative and accounting burdens, which are important and costly for all religious associations. I am thinking in particular of the provisions contained in sections 26 and 27: they may further degrade the attractiveness of the status of the 1905 Act, while the Government has the exact opposite objective in its bill. A fourth category of articles is problematic: they are those that are not included in the text. In a bill designed to reinforce republican principles, we would have expected measures to promote secular education – too often misunderstood – and integration, particularly in the areas of employment, housing and social mix. The preliminary draft before the Council of State contained some articles on housing, but they have disappeared. It is therefore not a question of these subjects: your text is intended only to be repressive, when it should have been balanced and include an equally important educational and social aspect – in accordance, moreover, with the speech of the Walls of the President of the Republic. Let us move on, in a completely different register, to the question of prisons, which is crucial to the fight against radical Islam or Islamic fundamentalism: it is not treated, whereas prison is one of the development sites of this fundamentalism. Finally, the question of means is almost never raised. It is, however, the means that are lacking above all, rather than a new legal arsenal. Let us take the example of family education: only 70 per cent of the households that practice it are monitored each year, while all should be monitored. Let us start with such measures, rather than amending the IEF law! Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer explained that two Koranic schools had been discovered, half of which were declared to be part of family education...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u94	Where are the controls?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u95	This shows the malfunctioning of the inspection services of the academy of the department concerned. We don't control, or we don't control!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u97	This issue is not within the scope of the law, but within the scope of the regulation. In conclusion, your bill is ambitious, along the lines of the 1905 Act, but it contains too many unnecessary or inapplicable, if not dangerous, measures that appear essentially to be political signage. Above all, the 1905 law was a law of liberal inspiration, of balance, of compromise. However, despite some improvements resulting from the work of the special commission, your text remains unbalanced, leaning only towards repression, until sometimes falling into provisions that can be described as liberticides.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u98	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u99	Republican principles exist only if they are embodied, respected and translated into the daily lives of the women, men and young people of our country. Separatism thrives on the loopholes of society and on a weakened democracy. If we do not respond to it, this crisis of democracy will continue to divide the nation a little more every day, each one retreating to the private sphere, no longer seeking to create common. Religious fundamentalism and Islamist fundamentalism take advantage of this context and develop their theocracy project, rejecting the rights conquered by the women and men of our country, rejecting the emancipation of women's minds and bodies. They expect only one thing: that we combine them with our compatriots of Muslim faith, to increase rejection and divide society. Fundamentalisms feed on this harmful climate and the perpetual quest for scapegoats. We must, as a matter of urgency, reconnect with an ambitious collective project reviving hope and the desire to become a society. This will require greater equality of rights throughout the territory, and a new fraternity. Today, the Republic is struggling to guarantee respect for its principles. If you are discriminated against because of your origin, gender, social class or disability, and the Republic is unable to put an end to it, how can you perceive the republican motto? If, in your city, the public services close one after another, from the court to maternity, to the public treasury, in the name of the reduction of expenses; if, as a worker's child, your chances of going to university are much lower than those of an executive child; If, as a young person, the state does not give you the means of your financial autonomy, especially to study serenely, where is, for you, the incarnation of equality? If, as a woman, you are paid less for equal work, and confined to the required part-time, where are the main principles of the Republic? All these attacks on the dignity of people have one thing in common: they are the result of years of public policies that no longer meet the concrete needs of French and French people. Incarnate the Republic, worry about the most fragile, have the human as its sole compass, this is what will make it possible to create a common one, to emerge from the crises of identity and, above all, to silence all those whose project, for France, is the confrontation of one against another. That is why we must act as elected representatives of the Republic. Unfortunately, the bill does not cover this field, whereas it is by the Republic, present everywhere, that we will effectively fight against obscurantism. However, the text should not be wiped out with a backhand. It targets religious separatism, nourished by extremist organizations that often thrive on social anomy. We would be wrong to underestimate them: they represent a challenge that we must respond to in a straightforward manner, because they pose the greatest dangers to our society and our freedoms. This extremism, in addition to denying our fundamental principles and actively fighting the laws of the Republic, locks up individuals and instrumentalizes them by manipulating the minds of sectarian drifts. It is based on the "we", those who belong to one religion, against the "others" that should be submitted. No concession is acceptable: in the face of this enterprise, our will is complete. The philosophy of my political family is the emancipation of individuals; religious fundamentalism is the enemy of it. The response to this challenge will not be a concordatory state; the law of 1905 is sufficient, and of profound modernity. It must also apply throughout the country, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that one day we will have to reopen the debate on the concordat in Alsace-Moselle – remuneration of ministers of worship, religious teaching at the public school –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u100	That's it, that's it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u101	...because there is a need for coherence in this area. The answer also does not lie in measures limiting individual, religious or associative freedoms. The bill will only be relevant if it can articulate principles of the same value, between freedom of conscience, association and expression, principles of secularism and equality, and respect for human dignity. While the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports several provisions of the bill, it remains dubitative as to the relevance and effectiveness of certain measures, and finally opposes others, which violate freedoms. This bill is intended to provide greater protection for women. If the objectives are right and the progress is positive, we need a stronger response. We support the ban on virginity certificates. This practice is a violation of women's dignity and we can only be satisfied with this measure. The bill also provides for penalizing those who issue these certificates. If the scope of this measure is difficult to assess, since the number of certificates issued is imprecise, it enshrines in the law – and this is essential – a clear message: the body of women belongs to no one but themselves. Polygamy must also be recognized as violence against women. This bill reinforces the existing provisions by allowing for the removal of any residence permit from those found guilty of it. If we agree on this, we believe that the current wording of article 14 does not adequately protect women victims of polygamy. Forced marriages are a real scourge. No precise figures were provided on the number of forced married women living on French soil – some refer to 200,000 forced married women. These women don't have to pay for their husbands' guilt. Some continue to experience this situation because their administrative situation depends on their marital status. It's not tolerable. When a man gets his papers removed because he's polygamous, we have to protect the victims by allowing them to be recognized as such. During the examination of the text in the Special Committee, the Commissioners adopted my amendment automatically renewing the temporary residence permit bearing the mention "privacy and family life" of women victims of polygamy. This provision represents an advance expected by associations helping women in difficulty, and I welcome it. If we agree that women are victims of polygamy, then we cannot vote on Article 15 as it is written, because those women, who are still in an imposed situation, will not be able to receive a survivor's pension. It is in order to avoid this double penalty that we call for its abolition. Ending patriarchal patterns requires important means. The fight for equality between women and men does not end with this bill. It will be necessary to go even further and stronger: to allow women access to all positions, especially those of responsibility, to put an end to wage inequalities, to put an end to precarious contracts or to fight for equality in the face of domestic tasks. We have so much to do to end patriarchy. The feminist fight must continue. With Chapter V, the bill introduces new provisions on education. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wants to reaffirm its commitment to the public school and will defend several amendments in this direction. Thus, for us, the existence of private out-of-contract schools makes no sense. The signing of a new charter of republican values and principles does not seem relevant to us, as it will not meet the lack of State supervision. In addition, the number of new out-of-contract schools continues to grow. Between 2011 and 2014, they increased by 26% and more than 300 opening projects were planned between 2019 and this year. This significant increase can only alert us: is that not what motivates parents to enrol their children at home or in schools unrelated to national education? For the school of the Republic is the place of emancipation: respect and mix are at the heart of its teachings so that each one finds his place in order to continue to build our nation together. The commitment of the teaching teams to the success of our children is total, we see it in these times of crisis. But we also know that there is a lack of resources for national education, since the supervision of children is not everywhere at the same level. Acting for children's rights calls for the Republic to provide the necessary human and financial resources to public and secular schools. Finally, this bill calls for a great deal of civil society. It requires associations to sign a contract of commitment to republican principles, which, in the vast majority, make them live on a daily basis where the state is often absent. The Republican contract of engagement poses a problem for freedom of association. The lack of clarification, in the document we have received, of the content of this contract is a problem, particularly as to what is meant by disorder of public order or abusive proselytism. I also have reservations about the very principle of such a contract. The associations would commit themselves to respecting republican principles, including secularism, in order to receive public subsidies. They are required to take on new responsibilities, including the control of their local associations, but what commitment does the State make to them? As we know, the situation of the associations was very difficult even before the crisis of the covid-19, with the reduction of sustainable funding in favour of calls for projects that divert associations from their associations and prevent them from having a long-term vision. Local and regional authorities are struggling to support them financially. Sports clubs have lost almost 40 per cent of their graduates. Is this really the time to impose new rules on them? Above all, I am opposed to Article 8, which amends the regime of liability of associations for their membership. Like the High Council's opinion on associative life, I believe that this measure is dangerous for associations. I am equally questioning the applicability of a new system of supervision of sports federations replacing the supervision and sharing of public service missions. Many federations will not have the means to control whether or not clubs apply it. Finally, a proposal for a law on sport is expected to be tabled in March. It would be more appropriate to work on the relationship between the state and sports federations in this legislation, rather than in this bill. I am prepared to do so if we are deigned to involve parliamentarians upstream. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Colleagues, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is convinced that the structural response to the objective of strengthening republican principles is that of a state that puts people at the heart of its action, fighting inequality, pursuing proactive public policies in the field of social and fiscal justice, and acting within the framework of renewed institutions. Members of our group will support certain measures, defend amendments aimed at improving the text and be intransigent in the face of provisions and amendments which disproportionately await our freedoms or which would defend an instrumentalised vision of secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u102	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u103	I will leave it to my colleagues in the La République Group to clarify our position on the articles because, even if this text is examined in the procedure of the scheduled legislative time, the debate will live and be rich. Tonight, I will tell you what is the purpose of this bill. First of all, some of the territories of our Republic are going badly and their inhabitants feel abandoned there. The erasure of public action is evident here, although for the past three years we can welcome the fact that the majority and the Government have made a return of public services, schools and action. This situation has created a symptom that has become a new cause of the suffering of these neighbourhoods. The President of the Republic named this symptom with great clarity during his speech of the Walls on 2 October. He summed up in one word the ideology of groups defending a political or religious project aimed at establishing a counter-society within the Republic itself. This word is separatism: the imposition of social norms, the dissemination of a rigorist religious morality, the rejection of otherness, of mixedness and, quite simply, of freedom, equality and fraternity. In some of our territories, Islamist ecosystems have been created, forming what the Minister of the Interior has called the land of terrorism. The observation has been made for a long time. The Obin report, which already pointed to the school's dismay at Islamism, dates back to 2004. Seventeen years have passed, and successive governments have put dust under the carpet. There is a lucid observation to make, that of double impunity. In addition to the inability of the public authority to hold its rank, there has been a blindness vis-à-vis the communalism of certain associations to which we have, in fact, delegated the social management of certain neighbourhoods. That is not the case with this government! Combating separatism, as recalled by the President of the Republic, is a social response to the reaffirmation of the principles of the Republic. Restoring the promise of the Republic and republican equality is based on these two pillars. This text is only one of the stages in the re-establishment of the Republican Pact in our country. This is certainly not the first. I would like to recall the creation of republican reconquest districts, the social reinvestment with the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1, the law against sexual and gender-based violence. It's not the last one either. I am thinking of the €3.3 billion in measures announced last week for neighbourhoods and urban renewal; I am thinking of the legislation, particularly on housing, which will complement them. The Government articulates the tools of public action in their plurality and coherence. The various pillars of public action are and will always be implemented. But the purpose of this bill is to combat separatism wherever it has infiltrated. I would like to say a word about youth. Youth is a target of separatism, especially Islamic separatism, especially in the country's damaged territories. The identity that we propose to them, proposed by the Republic, seems to them hollow. In this case, it is tempting to listen to those who say to you: "You are not accepted here, you are not from another place that you could fantasize, but you belong to something that is beyond us all. The Islamist counter-society has multiple vectors – from imam on the internet to the sports club that imposes prayer – and it knows how to perfectly enjoy the interstices of our system. What is unbearable to all our fellow citizens is that fanatics have found blind spots in our rules and in our rule of law. In the face of this, the solution is not intolerance but clarity and transparency. Clarity, so that a rule expresses the republican principles that make us live together; transparency, so that those who would like to manipulate them can under no circumstances take advantage of the administrative haze to do so with impunity. We must therefore lay down general rules that apply to all. It is also for this reason that the bill does not qualify separatist behaviour. These are today mostly Islamists, but the opponent can, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, be different: the law must keep a generalist aim and a certain height of view. I recall that the Republic has consistently done this: the 1905 law makes no mention of the Catholicism that was then targeted. The first challenge of this text is to extend the principle of religious neutrality of all actors in public action, while respecting the users of public services in the privacy of their convictions, including when they accompany children during school trips. It is also a matter of protecting those involved in public action from separatism. Unfortunately, the news shows us how much this is necessary. Associations are the fundamental actors of our republican pact, and as the President of the Republic said in his speech of the Walls, they must unite the nation not break it. Some fundamentalists have fully understood how they can use our system. They even know how to collect public money to fight the Republic. We will strengthen certain administrative and financial obligations of associations. These new provisions may appear to be an irritating complexation for some, but almost all of our fellow citizens and associations will find there only a check box without difficulty when this same box is proof of the lie of the radicalised. We must therefore make some concessions for the common good, as the President of the CFCM acknowledged before the special commission on 11 January. Equality before the law obliges us all to accept restrictions to protect us collectively. The bill also contains measures on dignity that I associate with those on education. Certificates of virginity only concern a few persons; Similarly, the measures on leaving the school system concern only a few thousand girls. But in the name of what, in the name of what contempt would we accept these situations? Only because they concern only a few people and, on the other hand, it's a little disturbing? We finally target social networks where Salafist and Frerist influencers are legion, hunt in packs and distill their poison. It is this land of hatred that we are fighting, because we have seen how deadly he was with the assassination of Professor Samuel Paty. The second major part of the bill aims to create order and transparency in the practice of worship, especially Muslim, because the funding of associations managing mosques is sometimes opaque in many respects. This is facilitated by the association status of Law 1901, which is currently characterized by minimum accounting obligations and also allows a certain porosity between culture and culture. Religion, as a spiritual conviction and a cultural practice, is a fundamental right. His exercise is limited only in the freedom of everyone and in the respect of public order. But we can agree that it is also often the pretext of radicality. This is the case when it is misled by religious entrepreneurs who disseminate conceptions that break with French society. Yes, we must protect the governance of cultural associations, combat the intervention of foreign powers and give access to calm and transparent financing; This is what we do for the good of all and for the greatest benefit of a religion, Islam, which participates in the wealth of our nation as well as others. I say it as a layman, nourished by the Enlightenment and serene in my love of the Republic and its principles. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are looking at a bill that protects us all. I promise him the same future as the 1905 law and even the 2004 law. All have provoked passions, but they ultimately create a form of evidence, for they all prove that the various believers, atheists and agnostics could live in the harmony that must be the reality of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u104	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u105	I'd like to say thank you, thank you for giving us a reason. You finally admitted that our observation was correct: Islamist separatism threatens the Republic. But don't stay in the middle of the ford, be brave, take action. The death of Samuel Paty obliges you, it obliges us all. Are you determined to face this danger? The speech of the President of the Republic may have made him believe, but, except for unexpected surprises on your part, to read you, to hear you, I doubt it. The President of the Republic rallied our observation during the speech of the Walls. Yes, he said, it was "in our hindsights, sometimes our cowardices" that the Islamist separatists "built their project". He denounced these schools where 7-year-old girls wore the veil, the school, the heart of the space of secularism, he said. The President measured the role of immigration, and I quote: "When the 1905 law was passed, Islam was not a religion so present in our country. And it has developed a lot in recent years, also through the migratory waves that are rather those of the twentieth century. » The intentions were well stated but, how can we not be struck by the distance, the very abyss that separates your law from the words of the President? We were waiting for a law, if I dare say so, of public salvation, which sets its strength in front of this enemy "who does not forgive us to be who we are", in the words of Alain Finkielkraut, an enemy who often organizes the partition of our country with low noise. It seems, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that other provisions will come: which, when, in which legislative vehicle? Silence on this point. In fact, in the interview you gave to Figaro Magazine this week, Mr. Minister of the Interior, you reveal yourself. You're afraid of displeasing, of being accused of stigmatizing Muslims. You tell us, you tell yourself: for the right, it's not enough, for the left, it's too much; So we're in the middle. No, you're in the display. We want actions, it is a major difference: Islamism does not fight half, there is no middle ground, no "at the same time", otherwise the battle is already lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u106	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u107	When the Minister of National Education tells us that it is a law "for" and not "against", when you repeat as a mantra: "It is a law of freedom", I understand that you are afraid. Fear does not avoid danger, it sustains it. In essence, you are in a logic of the "no amalgam", an ideological shield used by the promoters of a diverse ideology, which hurts so much the university – totally absent from your text, I stress it in passing – and which sometimes rages, alas! in the very heart of the Republican school. You're too broad a target for family education, out-of-contract schools, but evil is also prevalent in the public school, to which Samuel Paty was dedicated. Between intentions and actions, there is the gap between the On the Move and the Republicans. Invoking the principles of the Republic will not suffice. What does the careful examination of this text reveal? First of all, shortcomings. Nothing about immigration, nothing that protects businesses, nothing about radicalization, especially in prison, nothing about wearing the veil, the expansion of which is frightening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u108	Anyway, nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u109	Even the veiled little girls from the age of seven who shocked Emmanuel Macron will wait. Let us fight on ideas rather than on clothes, you say, minister: for me, veiling girls is not a simple idea, it is an indoctrination to subvert them, from an early age, to this aberration according to which a woman is sheltered from the eyes of the men to whom she is supposed to be inferior. As if this ineptitude were to become an ostensibly claimed norm in common places of life. Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, this is a fight for you, and we will be at your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u110	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u111	We will propose a large number of amendments on this subject, because it is emblematic. Let me quote the words of a woman, an essayist, Djemila Benhabib, who arrived in France from her native Algeria. Here's what she says: "I will never forget in my life this feeling of walking freely in the street, hair in the wind, without having to check if there was a bastard around the corner to kill me. That is true freedom. Some provisions are not unnecessary, however, albeit limited in progress. They include in the law improvements that jurisprudence has already introduced on the religious neutrality of public servants, for example. Evidence has also recently been given that the law already allows the dissolution of associations and the closure of mosques when there is political will to do so. As far as the new developments are concerned, I note a great deal of frustration in the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u112	That's absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u113	For the time being, radicalizing staff could stay as close as possible to school children. You have prevented us from talking about radicalisation, I repeat, you have prevented us from talking about radicalisation, by censoring our amendments. It's a height!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u114	Yes! You have declared them inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u115	President of Rugy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u116	I have enforced the rules so that the debate does not go in every direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Certificates of complacency will continue to keep young people in obscurantism. You are imposing compliance with a Republican contract of engagement, but the separatists have already organized their system outside ours. They won't have to sign this contract. This is precisely separatism: to exonerate from the common rule and to challenge it to impose its own. It is very regrettable, Mr Minister, Madam Deputy Minister, that you have not accepted our proposal for constitutional reform, even though you are tainted by the risk of constitutional censorship. As a result, you censor yourself. Political Islam is a powerful organization that knows our weaknesses. They know that it is here, even in your ranks, who fear to stigmatize a religion. Then you prefer to accuse them all instead of attacking your true enemy, our true enemy: separatism, which is not a religion, but a political offensive claiming Islam. The text misses its target, unnecessarily hurts religions respectful of the Republic and risks fuelling an anti-religious feeling. It is through its impreciseness that this text can hit Muslims who do not claim to transform their faith into a political project. Why this in-between? Determination is more effective than prudence. Let me have a historical parenthesis. Remember, in 1989, under a left-wing government, the first case of veiling at school broke out. The evil is identified, but the political power tarries and hides behind the Council of State, before defeating the heads of establishment. After drawing up a solid observation thanks to the Stasi commission, the right-wing dare to legislate in 2004. The unsolved use all the arguments, promise the worst but the law is necessary: no one has ever spoken of calling it into question. Let's not confuse courage and rodomontades. Some claim to be more effective by simply banning Islamism. This proposal is an abuse of citizens. Crime, robbery, rape are prohibited, but they still exist. To be effective, the legal arsenal must be more demanding, more precise. Simplicity leads to inaction because it ignores reality. If it was enough to ban an evil to destroy it, I would suggest that you ban demagogy, but I know that the National Rally exists only by this deviousness against which the Republicans will not cease to fight. The Republicans will never give up this fight against separatists wherever they come from. Our determination has borne fruit, since you affirm by this text that you want to join our fight. Now have the courage of coherence, have the courage of action. Accept control of mass immigration – on the contrary, you have expanded it with the law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration. Accept that you have expanded immigration rather than containing or even reducing it. Accept to think about the assimilation of foreigners: the word is in the Constitution, but who dares to remind him today? Complete the law with provisions to effectively combat radicalization in enterprises, prisons, electoral lists, schools and public service spaces. This last measure, suggested by François Baroin, president of the Association des mayores de France, does not deserve to be scratched with a pen trait without even the reflection being opened. Public service spaces are places where the public interest is expressed. They could thus become places of "secular respiration", to use the words of philosopher Catherine Kintzler.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u118	An excellent reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] An excellent reference, I grant you: then, follow his advice, since it is excellent, by organizing times and spaces of "secular respiration". Go to the end of the logic and follow us. We will appreciate the real scope of your intentions at the end of the review of this text, but do not count on us to endorse a chilly law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u120	Very good speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u121	The best of the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u122	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u123	Our work is nourished by exchanges, reading and listening. Shortly before the start of the review of this bill, I had the opportunity to hear an interview with singer and writer Abd al Malik. I quote: "Today we are told a lot about the Republic. We're told it's fabulous. But in reality, if we want to understand what the Republic really is, it must be incarnated, incarnated by beings, incarnated by values, incarnated by attitudes. The same goes for France: we are told that France is fabulous, but it must be embodied. I had the chance to meet beings who embodied all this; I met the Republic in fabulous teachers who embodied the Republic, I met France in the person of Juliette Greco, I met our values, the values of justice, intelligence, dialogue in the figure of a Albert Camus. » These words seem to me to be the right ones: an incarnate republic, it is a present republic, a republic that refuses the assignment, a republic that alters the destiny of its children. But what, unfortunately, is going on today? Others do it in her place, others do it against her. Wherever secularism is no longer, where equality is no longer, where justice is no longer, the Republic suffers, the Republic recedes. Reaffirming the Republic, giving it new incarnations, recalling its values and principles, is what we are concerned about today in order to fight effectively against the ideologies that push it. But one text alone does not make a policy. We will have to work to recreate a genuine social mix, to continue the reform of our education system, to rethink the development of our territories. The political project designed here pursues this objective: the reconstruction of our public policies around the republican promise. Without that, we will not succeed in regaining the confidence of our fellow citizens, who will continue to seek an alternative elsewhere, on the margins, outside the republican rules and, then, we will no longer be able to act. Division is what threatens us if we do not place republican promise at the heart of our action. This undertaking begins with the reaffirmation of the preeminence of secularism threatened in many ways. It is not naive to believe, even today, that it is the guarantor of a non-discriminatory public space, in which all French citizens can, without distinction, find their place. It is not naive to believe yet that secularism remains a central principle of the Republic without which our society, in its plurality, will not have a happy future. To those who refuse it by falsely invoking its excluding character, I recall that, far from being an obstacle, secularism protects us and brings us together. Given the stakes, a text such as this could have given rise to a disembodied verbiage: this is not the case. With this bill, we finally come out of the traditional ambiguities on this issue and look at the extent of the problem. The breaches that have been opened for too many years by the threats I have mentioned are answered here. I hear some colleagues on the right telling us that we are not going far enough and that the text is incomplete. However, the seven domestic security laws passed during Nicolas Sarkozy's term of office did not resolve the problem. I hear other colleagues, in the ranks of the left, saying that this text could be liberticide. I remember that night in 2015 when the same left, through the voice of the President of the Republic, had the terrible idea of creating the deprivation of nationality. I thank the Government and the Minister of the Interior for presenting us with a solid, balanced and courageous text. Of course, we can always go further, but let us already take this step together. The rapporteurs have reminded us: around the axes structuring the bill, there is a range of legal tools and measures that take the problem from the root while preserving the fundamental freedoms of our citizens. However, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats believes that it is still possible to make progress on certain issues, in line with what we proposed and obtained in committee, in particular the creation of republican promises, the strengthening of the protection of public service agents and access to family education. We make several proposals: extension of the principle of neutrality to associations governing minors, presence of secular references in health institutions, restoration of symmetry between associations governed by the 1901 Act on the one hand, and cultural associations and foundations on the other. Finally, we will make proposals to you concerning the supervision of the use of family education, which is totally preserved and to which we are attached, as well as the organisation of a real follow-up of the children's journey. This body of proposals was built in a manner consistent with the spirit of the bill. Our proposals are primarily intended to enrich the text, which we believe is up to the present challenges and provides strong answers where republican principles are weakened. This is what it is all about: to reaffirm wherever necessary the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic, to reaffirm its presence and to anchor it again in the lives of our fellow citizens. This goes, of course, through firm measures, but also through support measures, because secularism is reinforced only in equality and justice. It is therefore not a question of stigmatizing, but rather of recalling the rules of living together, those which protect public space, make it a space of coexistence and coexistence, those which also protect the inner fora of each. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] It is in this spirit and in the spirit in which the debates in the special committee took place – which we can welcome – that the Dem Group intends to move forward. We owe the French an enlightened and calmed discussion. Our group sincerely believes that there is no fatality to community retreat and radical Islamism. We firmly believe that it is still possible to take shape around the republican promise. It is for this reason that we call for a plan dedicated to equal opportunities, to complete this bill, because there will be no way out outside the search for national harmony and the republican duty to make everyone the place that belongs to him, to weave and weave the web of the bond, according to which in democracy and republic, we are all united in solidarity with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u124	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u125	In the last ten to fifteen years, we have experienced very difficult situations in the national territory: the number of victims they have made imposes on us a serene attitude, a calm debate and a job commensurate with their sacrifice. National representation is examining the draft law that reinforces respect for republican principles and the minimum requirements of common life in a democratic society. Let's quote Aimé Césaire's verve: "In politics, when I hear one of these great technical words," – here separatism – "I rob myself, and I always look for what infamy it hides." In reality, the Government has made a choice that some people are challenging, that others are expecting more ambitious, but that is a political and ideological choice – a choice assumed by the Minister of the Interior, whose determination is known. You're responding to an electorate that needs coercion and repression. Fortunately, you have not responded to more extreme demands, which often stigmatize human dignity and, above all, reject the other. The reality of this bill is that you invoke the values and principles of the Republic, but I mean law and order and repression. You talk about the minimum requirements of common life in a democratic society: I always hear public order and repression. Like the Defender of Rights, I regret that, in the eyes of the Government and the majority, the objective of strengthening republican principles requires only repressive measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u126	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u127	I do not doubt the validity – I insist – of some of the provisions proposed, particularly with regard to the fight against separatism and religious fundamentalism, and the respect of the principles of equality, neutrality and secularism in bodies governed by public law or in bodies governed by private law carrying out a public service mission. Charles de Courson brilliantly explained the arrangement of the various provisions, between those which he considers totally useless, those which are not applicable and those which are lacking. Similarly, Boris Vallaud conducted a detailed analysis to show the limited scope of the bill. This text challenges me because of the additional constraints and sanctions it creates, without tackling the real shortcomings of the State – first and foremost, inequality, discrimination and all forms of racism. Indeed, more than a third of the articles of the text introduce monitoring procedures and more than a quarter impose prison sentences, but no proposal concerns inequalities, discrimination and racism! You will oppose me the argument that this is not the subject of the text. Why? How would that not be the subject? Yes, the Republic is under threat. It must, of course, reaffirm its values, but also carry out its missions in all territories, stand with its agents on the ground and, above all, maintain freedom, equality and fraternity for all and among all the citizens of the country. By choosing a deliberately repressive text, you are taking the risk, Minister, of a withdrawal of the nation from itself. I do not believe at all that the voices of hope, fraternity and peace between us are totally extinguished. They are probably muzzled for the reasons already explained, and they suffer from the negation of the real. For the Republic, the worst thing would be the fallback: it would be the very negation of humanity and of what it has richest – otherness and diversity. It is this risk of self-restraint that appears in the philosophy of the text and in each of its articles. We must accept historical truths. The risk of separatism is not only linked to religious fundamentalism, it is also linked to the history we have known. Let us understand that the cluster of broken consciences that could, beyond all the barbarities that man is capable of, bear witness to all possible human goodness, has destroyed fraternities. Let us also understand the human state of the world that has suffered from the immoral mismeasurement of European domination, using the theorized hierarchy of races to reduce the inevitable contact of civilizations for imperialist and colonialist purposes, to the point of making different man a thing, a beast of enslavement and enslavement – never to mention reparation, never to name rooms and monuments – I think Colbert – nor streets, whose names are expressed in public space, insulting the memory of the victims! The risk of identity decline is not only the result of religious fundamentalism, but also reflects an exploited social reality, particularly in the urban peripheries and in the so-called ghettos, which requires the public authorities to propose a real strategy for reducing inequalities and investing in the future. Falling back on oneself is the worst instinct of human nature, for it diverts humanity from part of its destiny. As Jean Ziegler so deeply recalls: "The inhumanity inflicted on another destroys humanity in me. The withdrawal on oneself is, anchored in us, the cannibal order of the world, which makes the resurrection of solidarity another chimera. And it is this explosive cocktail, unfortunately sitting on a double monopoly – that of the distribution of wealth and that of the race – that is perceived by the other, the foreigner, the different, the migrant, as the incarnation of structural violence. This phenomenon is amplified by the fact that man is no longer a subject of history but a being vassalized by the devastating laws of globalization, at the very moment when the consciousness of identities wants to express its plurality and diversity in France, in a republic where unity must prevail over another form of retreat: communalism. We must fight not only against all forms of terrorism, but also for the growth of humanity. Paraphrases Ziegler: The most powerful walls cannot resist the insurrection of consciences in a cracked republic, lizarded by what is now one of the main earths of fundamentalist radicalisation – social inequalities and the persistence of an institutionalized racism in France of human rights. To demolish fundamentalist tyrannies, we must also agree to rid ourselves of the unspeakable, racism and its corollary, discrimination, wherever it occurs. These two scourges still persist in public institutions, not only through the words "bugnoule", "bicot", "bambola" or "dirty nigger", but also through the controls at the face. With regard to access to housing and access to employment, the institutionalization of these scourges finds in social poverty sufficient pretexts to build discriminatory models to the detriment of the designated victims. In addition to the unequal denial in France, the historical amnesia: the national novel humiliates the history of the victims of colonization and their anti-colonial resistance, and the fable of the great replacement, defended here by some, is also supported by the patented columnists of certain television channels. France has never been so unequal and discriminating, following a model that is globalized by a predatory ultraliberalism: between 1993 and 2015, the average income of the 1 per cent of the most affluent French rose by 100 per cent – and even by 150 per cent for the most affluent 0.1 per cent – while that of the rest of the population increased by only 25 per cent. Mr Minister, the rule of law is a conquest of civilization that no reduction, no cut, no compromise must weaken. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] It is also a matter of strengthening all legal measures to combat racism and discrimination, in order to work towards the effectiveness of our republican values and principles and, in all humility, to try to open up a new perspective, in order to succeed, as René Cassin wished, in reconciling the principles of the Republic, the defence of universal values and, above all, the promotion of human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u128	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u129	As you know, in its first draft, mentioned by the Minister of the Interior a few months ago, the text we are studying was originally to be entitled "Bill to Combat Separatism". Since then, it has been skillfully renamed "a bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic". But nobody here is fooled: behind the display of a unit and common values, what does this new title reflect? The provisions of the text clearly reflect the desire to stigmatize a population, and one can indeed fear that this law will divide the French on what should still be the basis of our common foundation – and that is the whole problem. If we have to fight against the phenomena of radicalisation that gangrene part of our society and terrify some of our fellow citizens, I am one of those who consider that it is not by any means purely repressive, by controlling the activities of each other, that the social bond that unites the French will be restored. Today's debate and the implementation of the provisions of this text in the future will, on the contrary, only strengthen division, distrust, perhaps even distrust of the services of the State. Because, basically, what's at stake here? What is our role, as parliamentarians, in our function, not only as legislators, but also as overseers of the executive? It is first and foremost to build a sustainable future in a soothing society for all, not to divide. The exclusion of a class of the population, a source of frustration and anger, will never be the right remedy for individuals to feel integrated, to feel fully members of what constitutes the social body – some will say "the nation". Besides, wouldn't the problem of our society come from our conception of the nation? To know which individuals can identify with it or not? Unlike a State, which includes within it subjects of law with citizenship which they acquire by various means, the concept of a nation is sociological: what does it take to form a nation? A common people, territory, history, language? Not necessarily: above all, we need the will to recognize ourselves and to want to live together. That's what makes the nation. For example, what makes a Breton, dear François de Rugy? Perhaps it is the territory, and again; It's not even culture. It is not the language either, since we have two or even three of them – that is to say, if plurality, we know. So, what makes the will to be Breton? For having discussed it with a number of them, I can tell you that it is simply the fact that we recognize ourselves as Breton. And don't ask them why they recognize themselves as Bretons, they don't know it themselves! Yet, do not tell them that they are not, for they would send you on the roses. Finally, living together is important. For me, we are wrong with the idea that France would be a single nation and that, in essence, its universal values would suffice for the proper integration of the whole population. Rather, the question is why some people don't recognize it so much that they go so far as to feed the worst barbarities against it. They even refuse the access to French citizenship that we offer them by offering them to participate in the common thing, in particular through the vote. To answer such a question, it is sometimes appropriate to refer to the work of the great philosophers. Thus, Jean-Jacques Rousseau theorized the social contract as the principle of sovereignty of the people, which is based on the notions of freedom, equality and general will: each individual alienates his freedom in the name of living together. It is these individuals who alienate their freedom that constitute the common good and the State, not the other way round. This is certainly an essential difference with the supporters of stateism. However, our Government prefers to increase the security touch by opting for freedom restrictions that further undermine equality. What is the background blade that guides this bill to fight against all forms of separatism? The analysis of the very term "separatisms", used in the plural at the beginning of the explanatory memorandum of the text, is interesting to see more clearly. The President of the Republic said: "I am not comfortable with the term "communitarism"... one can feel multiple identities if one respects the laws of the Republic. Until then, we agree. According to him, "the Republic, because it is indivisible, does not admit any separatist adventure": I do not know what that means. The Prime Minister explained that the bill would aim to "prevent certain groups from closing around ethnic or religious affiliations. Only, who will judge? And what does "close" mean? For the sociologist and professor-researcher at the University Paris-Diderot Fabrice Dhume, "the terms of separatism and communalism are quite significant in the way the debate is posed in the French context. They are very related to the way in which French nationalism organizes its conception of the world and is backed by a particularly tense reading of the nation, a nation that is considered to be absolutely unitary, and in essence, a completely ethnic conception of the nation. The indivisibility of the Republic is therefore a prelude to this famous bill against separatism. But how can we understand the use of plural? [[The speaker speaks in Breton]] According to the Ministry of the Interior, separatism includes any action aimed at "building a group that aims to organize itself on the margins of the Republic in a hostile manner". Under this strict definition, the future law will be far from focusing solely on Islamist separatism. Indeed, what does it mean to be "on the margins of the Republic" in the political regime governed by the 1958 Constitution, which accepts only an ultra-strict definition of the concept of Republic? Are we considered republican if we define ourselves regionalist, autonomist or independant? Is it republican when we speak Corsican or Breton in an elected assembly and defend the teaching of regional languages at school, whereas only French is recognized as the language of the Republic? Of course, I ask these questions on purpose. Indeed, I remember that the French Language Employment Act, known as the Toubon Act, establishes that French is the language of the Republic, while article 21 of the Act provides that the provisions of the Act do not apply to regional languages. This is the subtlety: when the Toubon law was passed, there was no legislation on regional languages! On the contrary, it could be used to suppress them. Similarly, when we included in article 2 of the Constitution that French is the language of the Republic, a Basque, Alain Lamassoure, sat among us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u130	He was Bearnais!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u131	[[Smile]] A Béarnais, I'm sorry, not a Basque! Alain Lamassoure had obviously taken care that this article did not turn against regional languages – a Béarnais, you think! Unfortunately, the outcome of the Assembly's discussions was not the desired one, and while Article 2 may have served a little bit to protect itself from English – three times nothing, really – it has, on the other hand, bothered us a lot about regional languages, I can assure you – especially since it is sometimes an interpretation that goes beyond the opinions of the Council of State or the Constitutional Council. Chat échaudé fears cold water: therefore, because they would oppose the vision of the indivisible republic promoted by the 1958 Constitution, those who were already abusively called separatists – be they Britons, Basques, Corsicans or Canaks – and who claim to be independents, autonomists, federalists or regionalists, should they fear being affected, by ricochet, by this new law against separatism? It is interesting to note that the latter should strengthen the departmental units for combating Islamism and community withdrawal. According to the Ministry of the Interior, they are supposed to "fail the acts that undermine the principles forming our constitutional tradition: freedom, equality, fraternity but also secularism, gender equality, the indivisibility of the Republic and the uniqueness of the French people. Let us remember that it was, in particular, in the name of these two principles of the indivisibility of the Republic and the uniqueness of the French people that the Constitutional Council ruled in 1999 that France could not ratify the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, and that the status of Corsica was changed – the expression "Corse people, an integral part of the French people", did not appeal to the Constitutional Council. It seems to me, dear Corsican friends, that you are as French as I am; May you be Corsicans, don't bother me, as I am Breton, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u132	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u133	I know, Madam Deputy Minister, that you also have Corsican origins. You can be Corsica, I am Breton: the Breton people, an integral part of the French people. Therefore, by trying to reach a tiny minority of the French population – radicalised or radicalised – the Government is actually taking the risk of targeting other categories of population. For example, we have often referred here to the question of family education, which concerns 50,000 pupils: they often study in very good conditions. However, I note that what is currently a right will become an authorization: in my view, it is not the same. And all of this for, we are told, some 1,000 students who would escape the Republic and study in schools located there is too little knowledge of where, and that the current law already allows closure. I am also very concerned to know what treatment will be given to nationalist movements, which, as in Corsica, nevertheless take their action within the framework of democratic debate and universal suffrage, by resolutely turning their backs on armed violence. That, we owe it to the new nationalist majority in power today, which, along with others, has made a major contribution to eradicating violence. Will one still be able, within an association aimed at the emancipation of peoples, to claim an autonomous or independant movement, without risking losing subsidies or being condemned or even dissolved? Will regional language associations continue to receive public subsidies, whereas the only official language of the Republic is French? This is important, especially for all those coming from immigration: these associations allow them, for example, to speak their language, whether it is Malagasy, Wolof, or many others. Since French is the language of the Republic, is Article 6 not likely to cause collateral damage to this species? I fear that he will always find himself a more republican judge than the Republicans, more French than all the French, to estimate that in France, one can speak only one language, and who will seek to impose his vision of things. With this bill, we are acting in accordance with the policy of diverse and hot-legislation, rather than taking the time to prepare a balanced text, which could combine social inclusion, cult practice, living together and secularism. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] As we fight an unprecedented pandemic, which the French expect from us a proportionate approach, both human and reactive, while reforms of magnitude will probably never come to light because of the lack of space within the parliamentary calendar, we are about to devote two weeks to a text that is difficult to apply, which will no doubt generate litigation, which will further dissolve the French from each other. I am afraid that it will have a major negative impact on many parts of our society that do not pose the slightest problem, and is of no use in the face of terrorism. In short, we are making a mistake; for having received a number of representatives from religious associations, I can assure you that they are very concerned about this bill, by which they feel particularly targeted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u134	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u135	To strengthen respect for the principles of the Republic is an ambition that Communist deputies can only share. However, I would like to take this few minutes to express our disappointment, not so much with what this text contains but with what it does not contain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u136	Until then, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u137	We are disappointed because, in his speech from the Walls, the President had been able to accurately diagnose some of the great ills of our Republic and to open serious avenues for repair, cure and cure. We do not find this inspiration in a bill that, by dealing with the effects and not the causes, ignores the essentials. In doing so, you risk opening the door to a dangerous exploitation of this beautiful debate by those whose purpose is to make secularism an instrument of exclusion and discrimination, while, on the contrary, it guarantees, by strict separation between public institutions and religious organizations, the exercise of the essential freedoms of conscience and worship, as well as the equality of all before the law, without distinction of creed or belief. We are all the less questioning the need to strengthen this principle of secularism as it was included in the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, then integrated into the 1958 constitutional bloc, under the leadership of Communist MP Étienne Fajon, the future director of L'Humanité, and concretized within the statute of the civil service thanks to communist ministers Maurice Thorez to the Liberation and then Anicet Le Pors in 1983. Our attachment to secularism comes from afar; it is not the result of a sudden conversion. It does not make us lose sight of the fact that our republican pact is based on several main principles enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution: "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. The authors of a balanced text would have endeavoured to reinforce all these principles: yet this bill lacks the stated objective of a protective law of the Republic. Let us take the time to remind ourselves of the words often cited, rarely heard, by Jean Jaurès: "The Republic must be secular and social but will remain secular because it has been able to be social". Yes, the danger is great, but for lack of care given to our neighbourhoods, where we have allowed social segregation to grow, for lack of mix, for lack of a school of the Republic that carries out its mission everywhere, so that, according to Proudhon's formula, "on the child's head come to converge all the rays of the human mind". They are not lost territories of the Republic but, too often, territories abandoned by it: I witness them every day in Seine-Saint-Denis. [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] The separatist project of some, if it has no excuse, feeds on other separatisms, breaks of equality. In my department, a student from the public school, between the preparatory class and the third, will have passed without teaching the equivalent of a school year: I assure you that such a situation contributes more powerfully than many separatist speeches to discredit the public school. Yet the employees of Seine-Saint-Denis, that is, France, which rises early and works hard, are among the first contributors to social security in our country. Their department ranks third in terms of VAT collected, making it one of the main producers of national wealth. On the other hand, there are fewer police officers, fewer magistrates, fewer teachers, fewer doctors than anywhere else in the country! What about the health crisis? How can the inhabitants understand the Republic and its promise of equality when they discover that their mortality has increased more strongly than in any other department, but that they have three times fewer resuscitation beds per head? Let us have the courage to recognize it: there is a separatism of conditions, a social and territorial segregation, when some neighborhoods have everything and others nothing. In 1999, Jean-Pierre Chevènement, then Minister of the Interior, alerted us to the deterioration of social diversity in Île-de-France. Twenty-two years later, everything indicates that the situation has greatly worsened: it is now a real social apartheid that weakens our republican pact and sees the promoters of separatism prosper. We will not fight them effectively until we resolve this issue. It is it that your text should have dealt with if you had really wanted to reinforce the principles of a secular and social republic. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] At the beginning of this bill, it was important to emphasize its unbalanced nature, which does not meet the expectations raised by the President of the Republic's speech to the Walls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u138	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u139	The bill that we are dealing with today marks a new step in strengthening what the Republic has most precious: its intangible foundations, namely freedom, equality and fraternity. This text is expected: it provides strong responses in the fight against separatism which, powerful and insidious, infiltrates all parts of our society. In his speech from the Walls, the President of the Republic set a course: to combat separatism is not to act against religions. It is because the State fully respects those present in our territory, that it wishes them to be practiced in peace, in accordance with the common law. Our action is all the more necessary because, in places, some young people are deprived of their free choice, locked in extremist dynamics. This observation is not new: the republican reconquest, both educational and social, is one of the axes adopted in 2017 by our majority. The announcements made on Friday in Grigny by the Prime Minister once again demonstrate his willingness to go further, for equal opportunities and territories, for employment and for access to public services. The State's response must be strong and fair: that is the purpose of this text. Chapter I of its Title I aims to strengthen the principles of equality, secularism and neutrality of public services: they must be respected by any public or private body involved in a public service mission. Public service personnel will be better protected from threats, violence or intimidation through the creation of a criminal offence. Chapter II deals with the field of association. The vast majority of associations carry out exceptional work on the ground and form a bulwark against identity retreat. I want to pay tribute here to the commitment of the leaders and volunteers: they are the allies of the Republic. However, associative life is not spared by community enterrism: associations that receive public subsidies will therefore have to formalize their respect for fundamental freedoms and public order through a contract of republican commitment. This will also be the case for sports associations, which are widely attended by our young people, which will also have to participate in the fight against gender-based and sexual violence. The concerns expressed by the association movement were heard: the text was improved accordingly by the special commission, which, in particular, exempted approved associations from signing this contract. Exchanges will continue in the Chamber in order to achieve the most just balance. Chapter III of Title I aims to protect women, still too often victims of religious ideologies or customary practices that threaten their human rights: the prohibition of establishing virginity certificates and the fight against polygamy and forced marriages will promote equality between women and men, a major cause of the quinquennium. In particular, chapter IV introduces a new offence in order to put an end to the impunity inherent in the digital space, where hate speech causes so much damage. The La République en marche group will also propose amendments on the prevention of such hate behaviour among young people. It is also for our children that this bill strengthens, in its chapter V, the role of school, which is, in essence, the place to acquire fundamentals and the experience of citizenship. Like many of you, I have met many parents and seen the diversity of home education. Very often, children in their families are happy, open to the world: however, we cannot argue that everything is always going for the best. Our role is to ensure the protection of the rights of the child, which requires us to better regulate these practices by subjecting them to prior authorization. Here again, improvements have been made by the special commission: reference to the educational project in the fourteenth paragraph of article 21, generalization of the national identifier attributed to the child, deployment in each department of school avoidance prevention cells. Again, I hope that our discussions will lead to the best possible balance between parental freedom and the best interests of the child. Finally, Title II of the Act provides for the modernization and strengthening of the system of organization of cults under the 1905 Act, by encouraging mixed associations to distinguish their cultural activity from their other activities, by controlling foreign financing and by updating the provisions relating to the police of cults. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to address the young people, to tell them that the Republic is there to protect them and to preserve their freedoms, to secure their future, to enable them to escape the Community retreat in which some wish to lock them up. I am convinced that, thanks to this text, enriched by the rapporteurs and Members from all sides, we will be able to consolidate our freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u140	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u141	We are in the process of reviewing the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic. On 2 October 2020, the President of the Republic spoke to the Walls on the topic of separatism: I then expressed my appreciation of his proposals, while hoping that a gap would not widen between words and deeds, and that the bill would be no less ambitious than his speech. Unfortunately, we must note that we are faced with a coded text on procedure, first of all: debates have been restricted in committee because many amendments have been declared inadmissible under Article 45 of the Constitution; in session, they will be in the scheduled legislative time. Yet the fight against radical Islamism is a major issue! This text is also locked in substance because, if it deals with separatism, it precisely avoids radicalization. Admittedly, separatism does not systematically lead to radicalization, but radicalized individuals necessarily go through the separatism box and it is very damaging to want to dissociate the two aspects in this bill. There is indeed a real grey zone between separatism and radicalization: it is difficult to divide them arbitrarily. Nor does this text address the subject of separatism in prison, yet it is the historical ground for Islamic separatism and radicalization. Between 1995 and 2000, nearly 450 activists of the armed Islamic Group, the GIA, were in prison in the Paris region. This grouping has obviously had effects as spectacular as they were disastrous. It continued with the arrival of a second wave of jihadist prisoners from the former Yugoslavia, who turned part of the ordinary criminal population into violent radicalization. Far from improving, the situation has worsened with, in addition to the so-called TIS terrorist detainees – Islamist terrorism – common law prisoners suspected of radicalisation – DCSR – whose number is obviously difficult to assess. Many of these inmates continue to proselytize and many DCSRs have taken action in recent years. More than 40 terrorist-related detainees were released in 2020 and about 60 will be released in 2021. Almost 400 DSCRs will also be released in 2020 and 2021. Former anti-terrorist judge Marc Trévidic stated that he was "not sure that our intelligence services have the ability to deal with so many exits at a time." As for Attorney General François Molins, he recognizes that the major risk is to see people "who will not be repented at all, who risk being even more hardened." The debate on separatism in prison would have deserved to be held in this House during the consideration of this bill. I also regret that the subject of the world of health is not directly addressed in this text. Yet the paths of jihadism and the hospital crossed. Farid Benyettou, mentor of the Kouachi brothers and concerned with the foiled attack in the Buttes-Chaumont, was thus trained as a nurse at the Hospital of the Pitié-Salpêtrière in January 2015. Similarly, Amine Ladjal, arrested in Turkey in 2016 as he was about to join the ranks of the Islamic State, was internal in orthopaedic surgery at the Timone Hospital in Marseilles. Three years ago, the Fédération hospitalière de France conducted a survey of the institutions: a third of the respondents answered the question in the affirmative: "Have you been aware of any problems related to the management of the religious fact? According to the urgentist Patrick Pelloux, "clinical examination is lost" and many doctors "used by the obstructions of some patients, abandon palpation and immediately order examinations and scanners. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u142	Of course, it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u143	This same Patrick Pelloux no longer recognizes his hospital and even less his university. Back a few years ago for a training at the Faculty of Medicine Saint-Antoine in Paris, the urgentist and was surprised by the number of girls veiled "from the simple scarf to the burqua. I will also repeat, as I did in committee, the words of Youssef Chiheb, professor at the Paris XIII University, auditioned in the Senate on October 3, 2019: "As an academic in Paris XIII where I teach every Friday, I do not know if I am in a university or in a mosque. The young girls wear ostentatiously not only the Islamic veil, but totally the hijab and the niqab. And no one can change this reality as it becomes more and more visible. » Nor does this bill directly address separatism in the university, which is increasingly prevalent. I am still waiting, ladies and gentlemen, for Mrs Vidal to attend the meeting following the publication of our report on public services in the face of radicalisation in June 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u144	Know that you will wait a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u145	The task of securing the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, which was intended, inter alia, to set up referents at each university, is currently being stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u146	All right, Diard!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u147	However, this was in line with recommendation 32 of the National Plan for the Prevention of Radicalisation of February 2018, which aimed to encourage the systematization of "radicalisation" referents in higher education institutions. At present, ladies and gentlemen, almost twenty-five universities still do not have a focal point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u148	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u149	It would seem that, for Mrs Vidal, separatism and radicalisation in universities are not a priority. Of course, section 4 of this bill makes it possible to punish pressure and threats on all those responsible for a public service mission. I welcome the initiative taken by the guard of the seals following the murder by beheading of Samuel Paty. But if Article 4 also applies to prisons, health and universities, specific measures would in fact have had to be taken for these public services. Finally, I would like to address the issue of sport and the associations which are dealt with in the text. Sports clubs, supposed places of integration and social mix, are not spared by separatism. This drift, limited only a short time ago to a few sports clubs or associations, has been constantly evolving in recent years. Beyond the community drift of certain sports clubs and associations in France, there has been a rise in the phenomenon of radicalisation in sports practice. On the one hand, the legal and institutional framework governing this practice remains very permissive and conducive to gender mixes between cultural and cultural associations and sports associations. Thus, in some neighbourhoods, structures that openly combine sport, homework support and religious activities emerge. On the other hand, sport has remained for a long time outside the radars of the intelligence services which, it seems, had not taken this scourge to its proper extent. It should be recalled that the vast majority of the perpetrators of attacks, as far as Abdoullakh Anzorov, the murderer of Samuel Paty, have had a diligent practice of various sports: struggle, boxing, Thai boxing or what is called mixed martial arts. Clause 25 of the bill will make it possible to compel associations and federations to sign a Republican contract of engagement, and I welcome that. However, as my colleague Éric Poulliat has done, it is essential to act upstream by giving the prefect of department the competence to grant accreditation to all sports associations – a measure that existed until a simplification order of 23 July 2015.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u150	Yes, it's so obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u151	The amendment we will propose to this effect, Madam Minister Delegate, is a necessary complement to the Republican contract of engagement in the fight against separatism. I would also like this text to include a chapter on the rehabilitation of neighbourhoods where the Republic has declined in terms of public service and popular education, and where radical Islam has gradually replaced it. I will recall Gérard Collomb's sentence when he left the Ministry of the Interior: "Today we live side by side. I'm afraid tomorrow we'll live face to face. I will also take the words of Minister Gérald Darmanin, who, at the time of the initial presentation of this text in the Law Committee, said that "we still lack many tools to combat political Islam." We will therefore make constructive proposals. Clear and unambiguous measures must be taken because, on such a subject, the strategy of the "at the same time" will prove ineffective or even dangerous. I will quote here an excerpt from Emmanuel Macron's speech to the Walls: "To radical Islamism, brandished as pride, we must oppose assumed republican patriotism and go further. » [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Philippe Vigier also applauds]] To those who may fear that this bill will stigmatize Muslims who, in the vast majority, respect the values of the Republic, I will reply by quoting Salman Rushdie: "Combatting extremism is not fighting Islam. On the contrary, it's defending him. Finally, to those who fear that this bill will violate our public freedoms, I will reply that they must never forget that in our country, some people are using our freedoms to deprive us of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u152	Mrs Delphine Bagarry, who, as a non-attached Member, has only five minutes to speak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u153	On 11 June 1903, at the request of the Socialist deputy Francis de Pressensé, a commission was appointed to examine the proposals for a law on the separation of churches and the state. Chaired by Ferdinand Buisson, founding president of the League of Human Rights, and able to rely on the virtuosity of its rapporteur Aristide Briand, the commission, however doomed to failure, leads to one of the most beautiful laws of the Republic. Two years of work were required to draft the Briand report and its bill. The parliamentary work has not strayed from the passions that separation raised, nor from the technical difficulties that it represented. However, in the so-called thirty-three committee, votes were often decided by 17 votes to 16. How can we believe that our work in committee, which lasted only a month and a half, is sufficient not to take the risk of infringing this law, which is a pillar of secularism?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u155	How can we believe that with a scheduled legislative time, which prevents dissenting voices from expressing themselves, all objections can be discussed? On December 9, 1905, a "liberal, just and wise" law was promulgated, in the words of Jean Jaurès. It wronged Max Weber, convinced that the Catholic religion, a community religion, was incompatible with the individualistic precepts of liberal civilization. After only a month and a half of work, the legislator is therefore preparing to rewrite a law under which the State is the guarantor of freedom of worship to make it a law of control subjecting the cultural, cultural and sports associations to regular and disproportionate examinations. However, the text submitted by the Government proposes necessary developments. The financial autonomy of cults must, of course, be encouraged. Transparency and control of foreign funds are, of course, indispensable requirements. The aim of this text is also to find by law the conditions for our gathering. But is the Government's plan such as to bring us together? A goal is not achieved simply because it is designed and desired: its achievement requires effort, execution and a series of intermediaries. There are consequences that have not been predicted by negligence, haste or carelessness. For example, in chapter III, on the dignity of the human person, the legislator risks, by changing at the margin an already well-stocked legislative arsenal, precarising and further weakening women. It complements a stigmatization exercise, where financial and human resources are needed to enforce the law. The adherence of religious associations to the laws of the Republic was a great victory of the law of 9 December 1905. On the other hand, how can we not fear that the drafting of certain sections of this bill will provoke hostility, including cult associations that have nothing to blame for? Infringement of the 1905 law would be an injury to religions on our part. Hostileness could also come from sociocultural or sporting associations invested everywhere, even on the most difficult terrain. Often alone in certain neighbourhoods, they are essential actors in citizenship education: they express the principles of equality, fraternity, living together and working together. They will now be the subject of permanent suspicion. This ill-worked text may increase divisions when Parliament has to work for only one purpose: to bring it together. Acting and legislating to combat separatism, radical Islamism and attacks on citizenship is necessary. However, in order to achieve this, it would be necessary in the same movement to act and legislate for individual emancipation and social mix, the best tools against identity withdrawal. Where is emancipation in this bill? [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] Secularism, like democracy and citizenship, is not a dogma that is decreed and imposed. Like education, it is a tool of emancipation that allows life in common. Secularism is a fundamental principle of our social pact. Because we are not changing it without consequences, our responsibility would be to reject it and rework it in committee, in order to live up to the objectives it sets out and the legislative legacy that we have all received.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u156	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u157	As a Corsican autonomist activist, in the not-so-distant past, I was called a separatist because I was considered to be necessarily anti-republican. However, hearing from the Government and the majority, I and others would not be involved in this bill specifically targeting separatists. Let me doubt that this semantic pass trick can protect us from certain dangerous provisions contained in this text. If the term "separatism" no longer appears in its title, its essence infuses it as a whole. In the explanatory memorandum, "all separatisms" are targeted, in order to justify the strengthening of the Republic's "legal arsenal" "against those who want to destabilize it". This shows, in our view, that the philosophy that guides this text lies in the straight line of a republic that is unsure of its fundamentals, which is squealing on itself. What are we still reading? "The Republic calls for the accession of all citizens who make up its body". The question is why this republic – because there may be other forms, federal, parliamentary, ecological – no longer enjoys such strong support from its citizens, or even arouses outright hostility. Perhaps a beginning of an answer is to look a little further in the same explanatory statement: "Over the years, patiently, the Republic has gathered a whole people, and among them, even those who initially were hostile to it". What a beautiful ellipse to not talk about the other peoples that make up the French people! I am paraphrasing here a formula from the Joxe law, the very one that was censored by the Constitutional Council. What a beautiful ellipse especially to ignore the violence, symbolic or not, induced by the forced assimilation of the Corsican, Breton, Basque, Alsatian, Occitan, Catalan peoples, not to mention those of the overseas or the colonies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u159	This forced assimilation took place, in particular, through the so-called school of the Republic, where it was forbidden "to speak Breton and to spit on the ground", under penalty for pupils who were over-cooked to express themselves in their mother tongue to suffer sometimes corporal punishments from their schoolmaster. The meaning of this sentence – I repeat: "Over the years, patiently, the Republic has brought together a whole people, and among them, even those who were initially hostile to it" – could be summed up as follows: "Assimilate yourself or disappear". This is reminiscent of Nicolas Sarkozy's famous shock formula: "France, you love it or you leave it". I confess that some of us in Corsica would like to leave France in an institutional way, not because they do not like it, but because it does not offer them sufficient opportunities for emancipation. Others do not like France and nurture insidious, deadly, barbaric projects, denying humanity in each one of us and threatening the very existence of our democratic institutions and our social cohesion: these are the Islamists whose fundamentalism feeds on in our country from the failure of the Republic to provide all its citizens of foreign origin with prospects for the future, beginning with successful integration. It is also one of the glaring shortcomings of your text, which is intended to be only repressive. Where are the measures to promote secular education, employment integration, social mix in housing, equal opportunities in schools or the fight against discrimination? While the text should focus only on what is problematic in society, namely Islamic fundamentalism, it aims very broadly, at the risk of causing collateral damage in many parts of society that have nothing to blame. We're not the only ones to say that. So listen to the representatives of religions fully respecting the laws of the Republic; listen to representatives of out-of-contract schools supporting children who would be out of school; Listen to the parents of those 50,000 children who are being educated at home. While precision surgery should be done, you're about to cut with the axe. My political background is particularly concerned about the possible repercussions of this text, given its experience of the legislative and legal provisions supposed not to affect our peoples. I am referring to a dramatic political episode for us, the inclusion in 1992 in Article 2 of the Constitution of French as the language of the Republic. In theory, this change was intended to combat the growing hegemony of English; In practice, it has only been used to insidiously combat regional languages. In this regard, we find clause 6 of the bill very problematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u160	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u161	The Republican commitment contract it provides will have repercussions for regional language promotion associations. What is the relevance of asking the administrative authorities to ensure that associations respect certain major principles and fundamentals, which are so blurred that they have required the production of a very abundant constitutional jurisprudence in order to delimit its contours? I am thinking in particular of the principle of equality, to which we are of course committed, but whose interpretation by the Council of State and the Constitutional Council has led to the blocking of the ratification of the European Charter for Regional Languages, or the non-integration of immersive schools in the Breton language, known as Diwan schools, into national education. Thus the principle of equality is used by the highest administrative and political authorities against the defenders of regional languages. There is much to be feared that this Article 6 will provide a strengthened legal basis for all the granting authorities to refuse regional language and cultural associations subsidies to which they are legitimately entitled. This fear is reinforced by a ministerial communication announcing that, in these Republican engagement contracts, it would include ensuring respect for the use of the French language. What about political associations, whose sole purpose is the emancipation of peoples or the defence of political prisoners? Article 6 cannot, under the guise of combating Islamist terrorism, seek to prevent the existence of regionalist, autonomist or independent associations fighting for the emancipation of peoples who, in the name of the principle of the indivisibility of the Republic, are not recognized in France. The same applies to the defence of political prisoners, who do not benefit from recognition of their status by French justice. It is important to draw a necessary distinction, in order to ensure that this text is consistent with the Government's intention not to organize a witch hunt for the various so-called separatist political movements, which are organized in a non- hostile manner against the Republic. This leads me to address a very sensitive subject in Corsica: the file of the perpetrators of terrorist offences, FIJAIT, to which is enshrined section 3 of the bill. Our experience of its application reinforces the great mistrust that this text inspires. Created following the bloody Islamist attacks of 2015 in order to combat the recidivism of radical Islamist terrorists, it is also used to list numerous political militants from Corsica, Basques, Alterglobalists or ecologists, condemned for acts whose gravity is not in common with those perpetrated by these terrorists. This file does not provide for any differences in treatment: all those included in it are placed on the same level, which could lead to amalgamation with Islamist terrorism, a dangerous evolution that opens the door to a repressive drift in the use of anti-terrorism stamping. [[Paul Molac applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, on reading these semantic, legal and historical elements, it is therefore doubtful that this text will help to combat Islamist separatism without affecting by extension all the other so-called separatist political currents. Is it considered republican, when you define yourself as a regionalist, federalist, autonomist or independentist? Is it republican, when one speaks Corsican or Breton in an elected assembly or when one defends the teaching of regional languages at school, whereas only French is recognized as the language of the Republic? It is all these questions that will have to be answered in order for these people to be clearly excluded from the scope of the law. Otherwise, the Libertés et territoires Group will oppose this text, which would be another tool to politically fight against the cultures, stories and languages that we are defending, in short, against what we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u162	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1145.u163	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Re-reading of the bill authorizing the extension of the state of health emergency; Further to the discussion of the draft law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
