ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law on greater justice and autonomy for persons with disabilities (No 4423, 4500).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u2	This morning, the Assembly began the discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with Amendment No. 17 to Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u3	On Amendment No 17, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u4	Since this morning, we have been debating an issue that is all the more essential as it concerns fragile people; It is therefore legitimate for our exchanges to be rich. Since 2017, we have been working alongside Secretary of State Sophie Cluzel and her initiative to defend a policy of proactive reforms for real rights and more effective public action – I will not go back to the disability compensation benefit (PCH), for which we must act hand in hand with the departments. Legislating without efficiency makes no sense; We stack texts that don't change people's lives. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are committed to national and family solidarity, as well as to social justice. We therefore hear the expectations of the couples involved in the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH): as of 1 January 2022, an increase in the AAH should benefit 120,000 people, if we pass section 43 of the draft finance bill (PLF) for 2022, which we will be debating from 20 October next. This is a measure of social justice, contrary to the fact that 900 euros are allocated to couples with high incomes. It will allow, for example, Karine, who is a florist and earns 1276 euros a month, and Olivier, who does not work and receives the AAH, to receive an additional 187 euros, corresponding to the AAH at full rate. [[Same movements]] It is because this evolution of the AAH is a measure of national and family solidarity, a measure of social justice, that we propose this amendment of abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u5	Mr Aurélien Pradié, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u6	I am personally against this amendment to delete Article 6. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] First of all, I can only repeat that your method of introducing an amendment to delete each of the sections of the bill is quite implausible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u8	We disagree, and we assume it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u9	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] When we behave as you have behaved for three weeks now that we have been working on this text and, in particular, since this morning, we cannot be quelled, as you do, by protests of benevolence, co-construction, dialogue or what I know. There are the words and there are the deeds; You don't want to discuss this, it's obvious. Then, Madam Member, there is no question in the PLF of an increase in the adult disability allowance...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u10	No, it's a lump sum allowance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u11	...but a flat-rate discount. I'm sorry, if you don't see the difference between an increase and a lump sum, you don't have much, politically or technically, to teach us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u12	What a pretension!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u13	You think Mrs. Dupont doesn't have perfect control over financial matters?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u14	For the rest, social justice is about ensuring the independence of those with disabilities. You cannot compare the situation of a person with a disability with that of an RSA beneficiary: these are two different situations and require different measures; One relates to disability, the other to a short-term situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Caroline Fiat and Agnes Thill and Hubert Wulfranc also applaud]] The very idea that, in our country, the amount of the adult disability benefit, which compensates for the lack of income from work – since it is people who cannot work – is conditional on the spouse's income, is unbearable! You can turn around the pot, you can resort to all possible arguments – we had the right last time to the computer argument: according to the Secretary of State, we do not have the right software – the reality is that you would find it intolerable that your own resources would be conditioned by those of your spouse. This is what you impose on women and men with disabilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Beyond the question of reduction, tax measures or the amount of the AAH, it is a matter of principle. When we do politics and act for our fellow citizens, we must have in mind the principle of equality as much as technical considerations. Nothing can justify the sabotage of this text or your stubbornness on the conjugalization of the disabled adult allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u15	I call on the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We assume to give more to those who really need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u17	That's not true! You don't like disabled people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u18	That's a high-level remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u19	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is what is mobilizing us today. In a fully responsible way, we turn to those who need it most, with particular attention to couples, so that there are no losers. This is the reason for the measures provided for in the PLF, which are in line with social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u20	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u21	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u22	Madam Secretary of State, may I give you some advice? You're hurting yourself politically and driving your majority into the same mess. Although you defend yourself by arguing that the oppositions did not act when they were in power, what history will remember is that you did nothing, when you had the possibility. You are hurt politically, because opinion sees only your stubbornness to rise up against everyone: against civil society, associations, collectives, elected officials... You're all alone in this mess with people who feel you don't understand what families with disabilities want. These families aspire to secure the future of their disabled loved ones,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u23	That's exactly what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u24	... especially when it comes to a child: despite the progress made through a more inclusive school, thanks to easier access to training and employment, parents still live in a difficult worry. For the dignity of disabled children and for the dignity of families, it is time for you to change your shoulder rifle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u25	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u26	As I said, our debates are perfectly legitimate. We develop our arguments and hear yours. Of course, we have a point of disagreement, but that does not prevent us from moving forward. The flat-rate allowance that will be adopted in the framework of the PLF revolutionizes the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u27	Revolution, really? What heroes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u28	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is all the more relevant as it responds to your concern to secure and consolidate the situation of the beneficiaries of the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u29	I put to the vote Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u30	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 108 Number of votes cast 107 Absolute majority 54 For adoption 67 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u31	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u32	We come almost to the end of our debates, and a large part of the French concerned by this bill must be deeply disappointed to see this text, thought with and for them, emptied with all its strength until it no longer existed, since your only amendments were to ask for the deletion of each article, one after the other. They will therefore be disappointed, but also disconcerted by certain statements made. Article 7 is drafted in such a way that there are no losers, Madam Secretary of State, since that is your concern. I hear the majority defend its record, but isn't it for people with disabilities to judge what's best for them? Would we accept that our income is falling because the Government would have decided that our spouse's income is more than sufficient? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] The majority says that it will not vote for this text in coherence, but in coherence with what? Because the LR group and the opposition groups are consistent with what they observe on the ground, Article 7 proposes a transitional extension of the current calculation of the AAH for losing households – estimated at 44,000 – following the proposed deconjugalisation. These households would therefore continue to benefit from the old calculation, because we want this law not to lose any, because all deserve the same rights, the same social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u33	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u34	Mrs Dupont, to say that the stacking of legislation makes no sense is to disrespect our work and our role. Madam Secretary of State, you are talking to us about autonomy, social justice and respect; You are happy and proud of everything you have done, but I will have only one example: today, the regional health agency concerned has decided that, in Ardèche, it seems to me, where there is a shortage of staff, it would be those condemned to work of general interest (TIG) that would take care of the residents of EHPAD. That's the result of your action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u35	What does it have to do with the Schmilblick?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u36	There are people with disabilities in EHPAD!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u37	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u38	At this stage of the debate, on behalf of the Communist Group, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this bill which he has defended with great precision and commitment. We have found ourselves totally in its content. We have found ourselves at this point that we are experiencing a remake, if I may say so, of our parliamentary niche of 17 June, during which we endured the same obstruction on the part of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups. – Mrs Caroline Fiat and Mr Jean-Louis Bricout also applaud]] If there is only one counter-example to oppose this majority of marble, it is these words that I have heard: "In the name of social justice, how could we allow the payment of some 900 euros to a person with a disability if his husband earns 4000 or 5000? » Well, that is absolutely inaudible, and it is a communist who tells you, together with a Gaullist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u39	We come to the deletion amendment No 18, on which the Group of the European People's Party has referred a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u40	Article 7 repeats the operative part, adopted by the Senate at the first reading of the bill on various social justice measures, creating a ten-year option right during which beneficiaries could choose to opt for a maritalized or deconjugalized allowance. Indeed, as the report of the High Assembly notes on this text, deconjugalization would make 44,000 "losers", for most couples whose beneficiaries perceive the AAH work and whose spouses have low incomes. Such a reform would therefore run counter to the objective of integrating disabled people into employment. The right of option, on the other hand, would be a source of additional complexity for the beneficiaries of the AAH who should again question each change in their family situation. This dual-speed system would not take into account changes in the marital situation of individuals. It would lead to unequal treatment between current beneficiaries and new entrants, contrary to the principle of social justice. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the operational implementation of such a system in the absence of any consultation on its feasibility with the family allowance funds and stakeholders is highly uncertain. That is why the Group of the European People's Party is calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u42	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] I'm trying to follow you. Of course, since I don't have your level of technicality, it's a little laborious. It has already been several times that you legitimately tell us that the deconjugation of the disabled adult allowance will make losers; on this point, perhaps it would be good to give some figures – all the figures. Indeed, deconjugalization could make 44,000 losers. But it would be just as useful to indicate how many winners we make – this aspect is still missing from your remarks. Now they would be 196000.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u43	The value of work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u44	The deconjugation of the disabled adult allowance would therefore make it possible to make nearly 200,000 winners and, I admit, because of a side effect, 44,000 losers. It turns out that this last point has been perfectly identified by the supporters of deconjugation – who do not have your technical level – starting with our colleague Jeanine Dubie. Moreover, all reforms in the area of social benefits have led to losers, which is why transitional mechanisms have been planned each time. This was particularly the case at the time of the creation of the PCH: the legislator had made provision for a 10-year transition from the previous system. The same is true here, with the transitional regime proposed by the Senate: the 44,000 people who could be harmed by the deconjugation of the disabled adult allowance would be granted the right of option allowing them to retain the benefit of the historic scheme until 2031. From the beginning, you say that deconjugalization is going to make losers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u45	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u46	But when you are offered a solution to avoid it, you want to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u47	We have already had this debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u48	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I don't have to have an intellectual level enough to understand it, forgive me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u49	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] Finally, I would like to correct the words I have just used, because I still find it difficult to consider that there are winners or losers. What we are talking about is a monthly allocation of 900 euros at full rates; I'm not sure that allowing our fellow citizens to get a few hundred extra euros makes them "winners"! The deconjugation of the disabled adult allowance will enable all our disabled citizens to enjoy a more dignified status and financial independence – a word that you do not pronounce, even though it is fundamental. We make you a proposal inspired by the work of the Senate and our colleagues to re-fish everyone; You refuse this solution. Frankly, if it is not stubbornness and parliamentary blockage, it is that I do not understand it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u51	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u52	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The rapporteur protested]] Being in a situation of disability is not a status, Mr. Member. Yes, you mentioned status. They are citizens; Let's respect them, please. The article makes 44,000 losers. Where's your job worth? I thought it was the value of Republicans. You make people who work and support their families lose money. I repeat: where is the value of work?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u53	And for the 196000s, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is not a way of treating people with disabilities. Let us stop looking at them with miserabilism by saying that they cannot work when that is the case with more than 44,000 of them. With deconjugation, they would lose; with what we are proposing in the finance bill, no one loses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to accede to the four requests for statements, but the speakers will have only one minute each. Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u56	[["Oh!" on the benches of the LR group]] As legislators, we have a responsibility to make the law applicable. With regard to the right of option proposed in Article 7, I would like to be given an example of an existing allocation for which the user is left to choose between the latter and another, which is more advantageous. Technically speaking – I'm sorry to talk about technicality, but the legislator that I am must be responsible and don't want to lie to the citizen – is that really possible? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u57	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u58	Clearly, there will be no final vote, as the text has been completely emptied of its substance. As a speaker of the Republicans' Group who supported the bill by Aurélien Pradié, I am very proud to have submitted to our colleagues very concrete proposals on the PCH, on the AAH, and perhaps even more so to note our differences and our fundamental disagreements with you. Everyone will have to take their stand on this text with regard to the answers we wish to give to men and women with disabilities. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] [[Same movements]] I have heard that the tax reduction that will be proposed in a few days' time in the finance bill would be a revolutionary measure. But what would have been revolutionary is the vote, from today, of deconjugalisation, not of baratin, technical measures or deferred decisions! Because of you, we missed a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u59	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u60	I would like to make two points. The first is that the amount of the adult disability benefit, even at a full rate, is still below the poverty line; Therefore, do not make any outrageous comments on purchasing power. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Secondly, regardless of their political sensitivities, all associations, absolutely all, demand the individualisation of the disabled adult allowance. It's about dignity. The only comparison that can be made – in the light of which I do not understand why the majority stubbornly want to do what appears to be a historical and ethical contradiction – is with the mid-1960s, when women could not open a bank account without their husband's permission. It existed in our country, and it's not that old! The parallel that associations make is that the conjugalization of the AAH makes the assignee totally dependent on his spouse. It's an attack on human dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u61	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u62	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u63	At the end of this heated debate, suffer that we do not philosophically have the same idea as you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u64	Specify your position, we didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u65	[[Christine Cloarec-Le Nabour applauds]] I hear your arguments, and I'm not intervening to pretend you're wrong. But we consider that the deconjugalization that you propose will assign to residence people who aspire to only one thing, is to work in order to enter society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u66	It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u67	Secondly, I would find it unfair – and I am surprised that the Communists can approve such a measure – that families with substantial incomes with a member with a disability receive the adult disability benefit while others need it more than they do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u68	It's not the family that's disabled!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u69	[[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] In addition, an important provision will be proposed in the context of the Finance Bill. These are two philosophies that oppose each other; We have the right to defend our own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u70	It's not a philosophy, it's a nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u71	I put to the vote Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u72	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 134 Number of votes cast 131 Absolute majority 66 For adoption 78 Against 57
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u73	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1 on the additional Rule after Rule 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u74	The amount of the disabled adult allowance has increased from 800 to 900 euros, which makes you play the great lords; It's true, it's good, especially for beneficiaries alone and without any other resources. For others, they will see with their spouse, since the debate is bent – with technocratic arguments more than in principle, it must be said. I note, however, that this increase does not allow them to exceed the poverty line, i.e. 60 per cent of the median income. In addition, the annual increase provided for in Article L. 821-3-1 of the Social Security Code was very small: 3% in 2020 and 0.1% in 2021. So the increases you're using are far from offsetting the effects of inflation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] To put an end to these delays, we propose to raise the level of the AAH to that of the minimum wage – whatever the spouse's income, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u75	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u76	The amendment provides for a report on the level of the disabled adult allowance. I have no unfavorable opinion; A wisdom advice seems to me better inspired. I would like to take this opportunity to enlighten my colleague who was concerned about the existence, in our law, of a right of option between two benefits. Prior to 2005 and the creation of the disability compensation benefit, there was another benefit, the third-party compensation benefit. Today, there is still a right of option between the two regimes. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] What you thought was technically inaccessible therefore exists in our law since 2005. It does not seem to have been a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u78	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, we must now apply the provision of the PLF to increase the purchasing power of recipients living in couples; On average, they will receive more than 110 euros per month. At that time, we will be able to assess the gain for everyone and for everyone. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u79	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u80	It is also a request for a report, since the parliamentary procedure prevents us from tabling it as a direct amendment. This is the raising of the maximum age to benefit from the disability compensation benefit. Already in 2016, a report by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs recommended that it be raised to 65 years of age, but it was not followed by any effect, despite the longer lifespan that requires us to rethink the distinction between disability and old age. Setting this threshold at 65 would seem to us a desirable and normal development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u82	Favourable opinion. Everyone understands that at this stage we only have the opportunity to request reports. But the subject you are talking about, that of being able to apply for this benefit after 60 years, is a major subject. I would like to take this opportunity to commend your personal commitment to this issue for many years. If this subject is under discussion today – and still for a few more weeks, if I understand correctly – it is also because of your involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u84	The articulation between the PCH and the personalized autonomy allocation, the APA. This is the whole stake of the work undertaken with the departments around the fifth branch, devoted to autonomy. We're working on it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u85	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u86	The purpose of the report is a request for a report, since it is the only way in which we can draw everyone's attention to a key issue in this debate: the provision of disability compensation for children. This subject is a dead end of public policy. I repeat, Madam Secretary of State: it is not enough to recognize in a grandiose way the difficulties we are experiencing in terms of accompaniment, because we have been identifying the problem for almost ten years without trying to solve it. When one benefits from the EEAH, the education allowance of the disabled child, one has the possibility – again it is a right of option – to choose between the supplement to the EEAH or the PCH. The articulation between the two poses difficulties. We come back to what was at the heart of the debate this morning – and I regret that some people did not want to hear it: eligibility criteria for disability compensation. They have been defined by referring to the life of an adult, on the basis of considerations such as moving within the home or going to work, but are not adapted to that of children. All this needs to be reviewed; If we couldn't do it now, we wanted to alert you about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u88	We are well aware of the disruptions in the lives of families, children and adults. In no way do we deny that we need to improve. That's why I launched the strategic committee, created by decree on June 29, 2021. It will meet on 21 October to set up the two working groups on improving compensation for children and on another major topic, the sources of journey breaks in transport. For a long time, we have made transport a separate policy; We need to improve the fluidity of transport capabilities for children and adults. These two working groups are under the aegis of the DGCS (Directorate General for Social Cohesion) and the Ministerial Delegation for Accessibility. It is therefore still too early to ask for an assessment of their action: let them work with all the partners, first and foremost the departments, but also the regions. I am therefore against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u89	The Secretary of State has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u90	In line with the deletion of the other sections of the bill, it aims to remove the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u92	This will be my final intervention, since the sabotage operation undertaken by the running Republic Group will have prevented us from having even a final vote on this text. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – MM. Christophe Castaner and Bruno Studer protest]] First of all, I would like to thank colleagues in my political group and its President Damien Abad for choosing to address this subject again during this parliamentary niche. I would then like to thank all the opposition political groups who have agreed to work with a colleague who is usually not part of the same football team. [[Ms. Nathalie Bassire applauds]] On such matters, there is no valid political cleavage, despite the spectacle we have seen since this morning. I am convinced that many of your statements are incomprehensible to our fellow citizens. I do not understand how you can satisfy yourself, on such essential subjects, to answer "working groups", "action studies" or "action sheets".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u93	That's communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u94	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] If in 2005 our predecessors, both in the Government and in this Assembly, had had the same modesty, the same look of marble, we would never have advanced. In fact, this political courage, which in 2005 made it possible to transform society, you do not have a tenth. Finally, I am always disturbed to see you so proud at the very moment when you have just sabotaged an opportunity to advance rights. I even imagine that, in a few moments, you will applaud to break everything: everyone finds his pride where he can. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] Thank you to our colleagues for allowing this debate to live here; We are proud of this and will remain at the meeting for as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u95	[[Hulls on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] As all the articles or amendments containing additional articles have been rejected or deleted, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u96	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Robert Therry to combat the disappearance of bees (No 4445).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u97	In the general debate, Mr Robert Therry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u98	The bee is life! It is common to lend Albert Einstein the quote that "if the bees disappeared, man would only have four years to live." If the authorship of this statement remains questionable, the fact is nevertheless indisputable: yes, the bee is indispensable for all human life. It is first of all because the bee is a true sentinel of the environment. It is indeed the main pollinator of ecosystems. But you know as I do, pollination is an essential action for the fertilization of a large number of plants, which are essential to life. Thus, as a threat to the bee, all ecosystems are in fact threatened, as well as the diversity of the flora, itself a source of diversity of the wild fauna. The bee has an effect on biodiversity. But let us not forget that she is also a tireless worker: she harvests pollen and makes honey, wax, royal jelly, propolis. These foods are all sources of natural wealth for the beekeeping industry and for our country. At the heart of the agricultural sector, let us remember that bees create many jobs. This market is considerable: in a very factual way, it is estimated that pollination of bees and other pollinating insects generates around 130 billion euros of activity worldwide every year! The contribution of bees to scientific research is also important. As a domesticated species, the bee allows us to study the behaviour of insects and to measure their impact on the environment more accurately. As you will have understood, the bee plays a leading and indispensable role in many areas. As a professional beekeeper – probably the only one in this House – I am sadly faced with the decline of bee populations every day since the late 1970s. In fact, their mortality accelerated during the 1990s. There are many structural reasons for this gradual disappearance of hives. I'll mention a few of them. The first is the use by intensive agriculture of neurotoxic insecticides – pending alternative solutions. This practice results in numerous bee losses, resulting in the death of colonies within a few hours. But as the leaders of beekeeping associations and trade unions have remarkably written, France must no longer oppose beekeeping to agriculture, because these allies cannot do without each other. Pollination is kind of a win-win partnership between the farmer, who needs bees for his production, and the beekeeper, who needs flowers for his bees. It is essential that these two actors continue to engage in dialogue. The second reason is to find in the strong exposure of bees to natural diseases such as the American seal, which attacks brood, nosemosis, false moth, or even Aethina tumida, the small beetle of the hives that appeared recently. This register also includes the Varroa destructor, a mite visible to the naked eye that has passed from the Asian bee to the European bee. It has been a real scourge since the 1970s. Indeed, it attacks bees and larvae, making them infirm and unable to work. Fortunately, natural therapies exist and beekeepers strive to apply them, even if they are very expensive. A third reason lies in the lack of food caused by the disappearance of hedges and a multitude of wild flowers. We can also mention the growing consequences of climate change every year, which threatens the survival of many colonies and makes harvests more and more random. In France, the year 2021 was particularly calamitous with regard to the weather: late frosts, regular and heavy rains, insufficient flowering. Honey production fell by 80-90% compared to 2020; To prevent their bees from starvation, beekeepers are already buying syrup to feed them, which is still a very important expense. Nevertheless, as a beekeeper, let me be very frank with you. Among all the threats, the Asian frelon is now the largest. Accidentally introduced in 2004 by international trade with China, Vespa velutina, new to our soil, quickly became a dreadful predator: in stationary flight in front of the hive, she captures the bee, slices it and takes it away to feed its larvae. Thousands of colonies are devoured. The fight against this frelon must therefore be a top priority. I am pleased that at the beginning of 2021 the Ministry of Agriculture and Food set up a working group within the Directorate-General for Food (DGAL), specifically within the National Council for Animal and Plant Health Policy (CNOPSAV), to combat these insects. I also welcome the more individual initiatives, such as that of my beekeeper from Brittany, Denis Jaffré, who has developed an effective frelon trap that needs to be developed. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] The hornets, alas, proliferate everywhere. In the countryside as well as in the city, and even in Paris. Let me tell you an anecdote, or rather a revealing fact. As you know, three hives have been installed on the roofs of the National Assembly. Barely arrived at the Bourbon Palace – sometimes I say "bumblebee" – I of course went to visit our parliamentary bees. On July 22, I actively participated in the honey harvest, of which our president Richard Ferrand also wished to be an actor. But, on the three hives, one had been completely decimated by Asian hornets who had settled in the middle of the garden of the Quatre Colonnes! I assure you, their nest has of course been destroyed since then. Fortunately, because the bite of the Asian frelon is very painful, even fatal in some cases. I add that yesterday afternoon, I killed a frelon in the same garden. We are caught in a kind of vicious circle, which we must break at all costs. Indeed, the shortage of bees results in less honey production. In normal times, that is, when the weather is correct and not calamitous, as it has been in recent months, France produces only 40% of the honey consumed by the French: 60% must be imported, mostly from China, Central America and Europe. These low-priced imports are not always of good quality, destroying the balance of the beekeeping economy and also contributing to the disappearance of beekeeping farms in France and hence bees. There is an urgent need to deploy a national plan for the recovery and development of the French beekeeping herd. Some beekeeping organizations suggest, for example, the creation of regional stations for the propagation and diffusion of bee and queen swarms, comparable to nurseries. That leads me to think it's interesting. We must also pay attention to certain political decisions: the European Parliament would consider – and I insist on the conditionality – tightening legislation on the essential oil of lavender, which has been so useful and beneficial for so long. Let us avoid adding to the natural scourges another disaster, which would directly threaten the beekeepers of Haute-Provence and the renowned lavender honey, as well as the farmers producing this beautiful plant. All the calamities I have just listed are threatening the bee, which is now, as we can say, an endangered species. Nearly 30% of bee colonies die each year. The survival of bees under these conditions is only possible thanks to the hard work of beekeepers. However, they cannot remain isolated in this fight. The future of bees and beekeeping deserves the greatest attention and mobilization of all. It is our collective responsibility to maintain for future generations a biodiversity to which bees make a decisive contribution. This is the subject chosen by the French author Bernard Werber for his latest novel, La Prophetie des bees, which shows that we are dependent on this insect. Promoting the protection of bees is an absolute necessity. This is the main objective of this motion for a resolution which wants to invite the Government to declare the protection of bees as a national cause in 2022. Beyond the symbol, this framework would make it possible to take concrete, rapid and targeted measures, and to mobilise all stakeholders in the fight against the disappearance of bees. In this spirit, the present proposal invites the Government to consider the development of a national plan to combat Asian frelion, a particularly important threat. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Hubert Wulfranc also applauds]] For the future of our ecosystems, our biodiversity, our beekeepers, our farmers and our children, I ask you, please, to vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u99	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u100	The motion for a resolution tabled by Robert Therry to combat the disappearance of bees must mobilise all of us. We can only support such an approach, as the preservation of these pollinators is essential. Bees provide 80% of the pollination and thus reproduction of flowering plants, and up to 90% of flowering plant species depend solely on pollinating insects. Thus, 75% of our food, fruit, vegetables and oilseeds depend on their fertilizing action. Finally, from a financial point of view, all data together, the extinction of bees would cost France nearly €2.9 billion. The health status of bees is an indicator of the quality of their environment and therefore of ours. Yet, since the late 1970s, we have witnessed their destruction, in a very disturbing way; In some parts of China, bees have even disappeared completely. In France, nearly 15,000 beekeepers have ceased their activity in ten years and nearly 30% of bee colonies disappear each year. The reasons are many, but two of them are particularly identifiable: the use of insecticides by intensive agriculture and the damage caused by Asian frelon. With regard to the first, the Government's Pollinators Plan is expected to revise the 2003 Order on the Conditions of Use of Agricultural Insecticides and Caricides to protect bees and other pollinating insects. The aim is to use only products on flowering crops and foraging areas, the risk assessment of which confirms that they are not harmful to bees. In addition, these products may only be applied outside the presence of bees and, in the general case, between two hours before sunset and three hours after sunset. Secondly, it is essential that France remains mobilised to promote the development at European level of methods for assessing the risks of plant protection products to pollinators. Last June, we made progress in this area, thanks to the definition of a very strict objective for the protection of domestic bees; We need to continue and take more account of wild pollinators. Let us take advantage of the French Presidency in the European Union to achieve progress in these areas. The Asian frelon is a second area of concern. It is the cause of nearly 30% of bee colony mortality each year. Chemicals, such as biocides, are already being used against him. That's not enough. As early as 2013, the beekeeping industry had requested a derogation to use sulphur dioxide (SO) in this direction between August and November. In the same year, a derogation was theoretically granted to experiment with it, but the deadline was too short in relation to the one to which the file was subject – no file was filed. It would have been necessary to wait until the quinquennium, especially in 2019, to revive the idea of a waiver request relating to the use of SO. A co-financing of the Ministry of Environmental Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food was envisaged. The first should lead discussions with professionals and industry in order to supplement funding – we strongly encourage it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In an attempt to encourage the Government to reflect on the development of a national plan to combat Asian frelon, this motion for a resolution is in line with the logic already set in motion. It reaffirms the interest and importance of the issue. That is one of the reasons why the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will support it. Finally, I would like to add that such a reflection will not save on an in-depth analysis of the French honey sector. It deserves to be better structured and our beekeepers deserve to be protected from foreign competition. Today, Europe does not produce enough honey to support its consumers and imports about 40% from third countries. But competition, mostly Chinese, offers a lower quality honey, obviously much cheaper. The Government and Parliament will have to look into this. In the meantime, I reiterate the support of the Dem Group for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u101	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u102	Since the mid-1990s, we have witnessed the disappearance of about 300,000 hives a year; the loss of bee populations reaches 25 to 30% each winter. These frightening figures are indicative of a major disruption of the ecosystem, whose bees are among the first victims. But their extinction reveals the unfailing link between humans and the environment: through pollination, bees would contribute to 75% of world food production; 60-90% of wild plants require pollinating insects to reproduce. The contribution of bees to human life – to life on Earth – is invaluable, The case of bees perfectly illustrates the concept of "one health", born from epidemiology, which promotes an integrated and unified approach to human, animal and environmental health, that is, a global approach to living. By revealing the extreme fragility of our societies, the covid-19 pandemic highlighted our degree of interdependence. While 80% of emerging diseases come from the animal world and are related to the environment, epidemiology is at the origin of a knowledge revolution, which requires a collective rethinking of ecology and health, biodiversity and climate, food security and international trade. We need a new pact with nature. The survival of bees lies at the intersection of all these issues. This motion for a resolution bears witness to this in a way, by listing the multiple causes of the decrease in bee populations: insecticides, climate change, diseases, the arrival of Asian frelon. Faced with this multitude of factors, we cannot give up; We must act quickly and decisively. It is therefore regrettable that we are content with a text of resolution that is without binding value, which amounts to presenting to our House words but no concrete action. We would have preferred to discuss a legislative text, on which we could have proposed amendments concerning the cessation of the use of plant protection products, the support of farmers and the support of the beekeeping sector. But for the time being, it should be noted that the acts are not in line with the words, which is the most obvious example of which the vote allowing the re-use of insecticides that are called in the common language "bee killers". For almost five years now, on the question of the preservation of life, there has been, on the one hand, the announcements of the executive, and, on the other hand, the reality of a very meagre assessment: the unfulfilled commitment to the exit of glyphosate, the status quo announced on the CAP (common agricultural policy), the fact that the bodies responsible for implementing biodiversity policies are understaffed. Yet, on the issue of biodiversity, the expectations of our fellow citizens are strong: they are many to mobilize for the protection of the living. For example, the European Citizens' Initiative "Save Bees and Farmers" calls for the phasing out of synthetic pesticides and for stronger support for farmers. It has obtained more than one million signatures, which will require the European Commission to study its proposals. An unprecedented legal action has been launched against the French State for failing to comply with its obligations to protect life, in the name of the precautionary principle on the use of pesticides that are most dangerous to our health and our environment. And let's not forget the chlordecone that poisoned the West Indies! At the Congress of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the President of the Republic acknowledged that France was not moving fast enough to reduce the use of such products. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The requirement of our time requires that we move from speaking to concrete action. Remember, Albert Einstein said that "if the bees were to disappear, humanity would only have four years before it." The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, which calls on the Government to declare the protection of bees as "a great national cause 2022": this is the minimum that can be done for a species that has been shaping the life of our planet for 100 million years, and which we hope will continue to do so for the next 100 million years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u103	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u104	Too few of us in this House debate biodiversity and bees. Remember that the bee has always been very present in the history of our beautiful country, France. It was the symbol of the Merovingian kings and also the one chosen by Napoleon, as an attribute of strength and eternal rebirth: this animal, which manages not only to make live its own colony, but also its entire ecosystem, fascinates us. The species, more threatened than ever, is, however, essential to our agriculture. Pollinators in France employ 55,000 beekeepers, who maintain more than a million colonies. Two thirds of the food we eat is the direct or indirect result of pollination, which means bees. Let us take advantage of this debate and this rostrum to recall the means used to combat their decline – a tragedy that has been taking place for several years. Indeed, each year our country suffers a loss of about 30% of bees. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones: all pollinators and all insects are concerned. Bee eradication is already at work in some countries, as a result of the intensive use of toxic products in agriculture, to the point that farmers could be forced to pollinate manually, as is already the case in China. Because bees and pollinators are essential to the reproduction of many plants. Studies show that 40% of the agricultural economic value is directly related to the level of pollination. We must therefore act collectively, at national and European level, to stop this mass extinction. Pesticides alone do not explain the decline of bees. Diseases, the impoverishment of food sources, the invasion of the Asian frelon are all phenomena that put them in danger. The local elected representatives, as we know, are very committed to the fight against the proliferation of the latter. We must, of course, regulate their action. We all know these issues, and the Government has not waited for this motion for a resolution to act and to propose solutions. A national action plan for pollinators has been launched as a continuation of measures taken at European level, including the "One Health, one health" approach. It is being extended by the national plan for pollinating insects and pollination, announced by the Government in August 2020 following the neonicotinoid exemption, with the aim of halting the decline of bees through a comprehensive approach. It will also provide a better understanding of the origin of pollinator declines, while focusing on good agricultural practices and improving the health of our hives. We expect a lot from this plan, which should apply in the coming weeks: Madam Secretary of State, can you explain the details? However, on this subject, we cannot simply reason at national level: we must also act at European level to find solutions that are both effective and that do not penalise one country compared to the others, because bees do not know borders. Will the conservation of biodiversity and pollinators be highlighted in the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2022? We must avoid opposing agriculture, beekeeping and pollinators, all victims of this scourge, but on the contrary reconcile and accompany them in order to prevent the consequences for our agriculture of the disappearance of bees. The Group of the European People's Party – sensitive to the fate of our friends bees, as are all those present in this House – will therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and fully support the Government's action on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u105	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u106	First of all, we would like to thank the Group of the Republicans for devoting part of its day of parliamentary initiative to the situation of bees, reminding us, if necessary, of the fragile situation of these hymenoptera. In this Chamber, we can only mention the mythical and political character of this living being. We cannot count the stories, the representations, the fictions and the fables that stage the bees, linked to man for thousands of years. The place occupied by the bee in the popular imagination derives from its own characteristics, particularly on the political level: it is a social animal, whose life is part of that of the community to which it belongs; It is a warrior animal, who knows how to fight to defend its habitat, its resources and its offspring; It is an animal, finally, whose community is organized hierarchically around a single authority. It is therefore unsurprising that it was associated with different political regimes in our history, from Childeric I, founder of the Merovingian dynasty, to the Napoleonic empire. Advances in science have also informed us about its essential role in the food chain and the maintenance of biodiversity. Bees are indispensable and guarantee, through pollination, the reproduction of plant species. The National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment (INRAE) estimated that they provide one third of the world's food, an environmental service estimated at EUR 153 billion per year. Nevertheless, these insects have been experiencing a decline in their population for the past 20 years, which affects honey production, divided by two in France. The causes of such cataclysm are multiple and rather well identified: the use of plant protection products, including neonicotinoids, which are harmful to bees; the spread of diseases and pests; the accidental introduction of the Asian frelon for fifteen years, which decimates the colonies; the practices of a minority of beekeepers, not respecting the welfare of bees; the standardization of bee species, whose biological diversity weakens; intensive monoculture, which weakens bees' food sources; climate change, which upsets all ecosystems. As a Member of Parliament for a territory vulnerable to climate change and biodiversity erosion, I am particularly sensitive to this issue. So, personally, I was not in favour of the neonicotinoid text adopted last year. In the face of an upbuilding observation, this motion for a resolution has good intentions, even if it does not propose concrete solutions. Declaring the protection of bees as "great national cause 2022" may be useful, but only long-term work can permanently reverse the situation and we must collectively work on it. The text, however, has the merit of raising awareness among the general public about the cause of bees and the fight against Asian frelon, which will include raising awareness of all possible small gestures in favour of bees: construction of insect shelters, cultivation of certain plants, less frequent mowings. We have supported concrete and realistic solutions, such as improving the labelling of honey to defend beekeepers' incomes and to combat imports of fake honey. We also support the re-establishment of grove hedges in rural areas to promote biodiversity. We also propose to join the European framework – the ideological basis of the IDU – in order to launch a concerted action plan across the continent, as invasive species, parasites, diseases, even animal diseases, do not know borders. We will not fail, we do not have the right, at the risk of having to resort to armies of agricultural workers to ensure manual pollination, like China, or to have to invest in fleets of miniature drones, as the United States is planning to do. For all these reasons, given the urgency of the situation, the IDU and Independent Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u107	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u108	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] I'll play the party trouble... We knew "Martine à la ferme", "Martine fait du camping", "Martine à la mer". We discover, thanks to you, "The Republicans were trying to ecology". It would be almost touching, if you didn't have some effort to make in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u109	You're a cow, Mathilde!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u110	In view of this motion for a resolution, it is clear that the Republican is not there in its natural habitat... He's lost to unknown land. It is therefore necessary to go to the ecology field gradually, one foot after the other, in order not to rush it. The aim of this motion for a resolution is to combat the disappearance of bees, but be careful! I am glad that all Members are about to adopt this text, but knowing that a year ago, they voted mostly for the return of bee killer pesticides, there is an incredible hypocrisy! The motion for a resolution therefore calls on the Government to declare the protection of bees "great national cause 2022". Convenient. Judging by the fate reserved for equality between women and men, the great cause of the quinquennium, it can be assumed that the Government will not provide any special commitment or additional resources. Little by little, I tell you! The text encourages the Government to reflect on the development of a national plan to combat the Asian frelon: you kindly invite it to think, you suggest an idea, you stimulate its imagination – but force it, that, never! You are, colleagues, attached to the comparison of real and nature with market value, on the pretext that man would have what surrounds him as one thing. According to this logic, the pollination of bees is translated into figures: 130 billion euros each year, do you realize? Without this calculation, we would not have grasped the scale of the disaster, as the collapse of biodiversity does not in itself justify an alert... You tell us, in short, that depriving yourself of the bees amounts to depriving yourself of a juicy pactole. Wait a few seconds: a bee backup plan? It's strange, I don't think I remember a fiery mobilization, in the Republican ranks, on the occasion of the vote that reauthorized the use of bee killer pesticides: most of your group had voted in favour of this bill – not to mention the macroist majority, who had overwhelmingly accepted it. However, it is particularly tasty to see you give a lesson in ecology to the Government. I do not know what is most shameful for Macronia: has it contributed to the destruction of our ecosystems by re-authorizing bee killer pesticides, dangerous for soil and water quality and for human health, in a context where 37% of bee colonies have been decimated in a few years within the European Union, and where 85% of our crops are endangered in the absence of pollinators? No, I do not know what is most shameful between this and the fact that it is now the Republican Group that reminds neoliberals of the need to safeguard biodiversity. Do not take it personally, colleagues, but recognize that apart from including environmental protection in the Constitution, you have not specifically operated your ecological moult. We share at least one intuition: it is necessary to protect biodiversity. On the other hand, what you carefully omit to say is that intensive agriculture uses pesticides extensively, thus contributing to the excess mortality of bees: a ton of neonicotinoids can kill 150000 billion bees. This type of agriculture promotes monoculture,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u111	Living room ecologist, eco-bobo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u112	... exhausts the soil and contributes to the development of pests, pests and diseases – as you know, the first victims of intensive agriculture are farmers themselves. Contrary to what you say, there are alternatives. Taking the ecological question seriously inevitably leads us to operate the bifurcation of our agricultural model. We can invest heavily in organic and peasant agriculture and create 300,000 peasant jobs. Public procurement must be used to develop this type of agriculture, not the agro-chemical industry. We need to improve the farming profession, which is not limited to the use of machinery or pesticides. We must impose a moratorium on the artificialisation of soil, limit the margins of large-scale distribution on small farmers and introduce floor prices to get our farmers out of poverty. And since you're talking about bees, reread the twenty years of scientific studies that prove the dangerousness of pesticides, their remanence in soils and groundwaters, their dispersion on all crops, including on wild plants and flora. And next time, vote in coherence. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I don't think I'm giving you a secret by telling you that it's not with this text that we're going to save anything from biodiversity, or that we're going to face climate change. But I take note of your first steps in the field of ecology; I welcome this attempt and regret that the majority and the Government are thus buying a good conscience at little cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u113	A little cow! I'd have turned it otherwise...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u114	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u115	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] [[Smile]] In a word, I would like to regret the cold and technocratic position that was opposed to us earlier on a subject as human as the AAH. We gave honey to populism. And here, it's a hive: there's the queen – the president –, the spoilers, some Asian hornets... I won't give the metaphor any longer. A threat is hovering on our hives. In 20 years, the mortality rate of bees has increased from 5% to 30%. This disappearance, far from being annoyed, worries us. Researchers at the INRAE laboratory in Avignon, who specialize in pollination, are formal: 84% of the flowering plant species that are currently listed on the Earth need bees. In Europe, 85% of cultivated plants would not survive without the pollination provided by forage plants. Pollinators are one of the essential links to the balance of our ecosystems. Without bees, it's the end of the flowers. Without bees, the flora and fauna are gradually disappearing. Without bees, biodiversity is being undermined, and with it the future of humanity. We know that a world without pollinators is not an option. Others have already recalled Einstein's sentence. Yes, our planet is burning! In my territory, as in others, wine growers have understood this well and have installed many hives on ecological corridors; They're out of chemistry. The challenge today is therefore to know why the spoilers are in decline, and how to protect them. There are several reasons for this: climate disruption, difficulties in managing hives, the threat of Asian frelon or the threat of varroa. But the main problem, we know it. These are pesticides, especially those of the neonicotinoid family. I will not repeat here the debate on the law on the conditions for the placing on the market of certain plant protection products in the event of a health hazard for sugar beet. I would just like to recall that the majority of the Libertés et Territoires Group voted against the reintroduction of neonicotinoids, even though it would be limited in time. No less than 1222 studies have proved the dangerousness of these products: they poison our soils and everything that grows there – with or without flowers, by the way. They're polluting our groundwater. They also affect wildlife and in particular pollinators. Mortality in bee colonies increased sixfold. We were looking for those responsible for the decline of the spoilers: here they are! I do not, however, minimize the threat posed by the Asian frelon. It has now invaded almost the entire national territory, and a majority of French beekeepers are confronted with its harmful action on hives. It's a real plague! I understand and share the concerns of beekeepers who see, year after year, the increasing incidence of this predator. We are witnessing a complete collapse of the colonies. Despite the warning of beekeepers about the threat posed by this pest, which was launched early, too little is being done to combat its proliferation. There are some local initiatives, but there is no real coordination of the struggle at national level or specific means. We are waiting for the Pollinizers Plan to finally release the necessary funds for the eradication of this calamity. There is also a need to address another, more structural, cause of bee decline: loss of biodiversity. Pollinators need a wide variety of honeycomb plants to maintain themselves in good health: the increased use of monoculture, and more generally the erosion of biodiversity, harm them. Here too, the policy of restoring and preserving our natural resources must be more ambitious. The 2022 Finance Bill outlines a first step in this direction; It will be necessary to go further and act in the long term. It is also urgent to accompany our beekeepers in this difficult time. A few figures that I throw at you: in 1995, 33000 tonnes of honey were produced in France; In 2000, we fell to 18,000 tonnes, and by 2021, less than 10,000 tonnes will have been produced, due to an unfavourable climate, thus a lack of food for bees. Madam Secretary of State for Biodiversity, how do you intend to support our beekeepers? The Libertés et Territoires Group, aware of the importance of bees in our ecosystem and convinced of the need to preserve them, will vote for this motion for a resolution. But we want to go further and we call on the Government to rapidly deploy the Pollinators Plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u116	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u117	Beautiful and useful resolution! And everything has been said by our colleague Robert Therry, followed by the speakers who have already spoken. Will the majority, the Government, take up this beautiful and useful resolution? We designed it; You'll get it. [[Smile]] This is indeed a great niche – what do I say, an electoral hive offered to the president who governs us, to this president so fond of such opportunities at this time. Imagine the fabulous images offered to the media: the monarch – I'm not talking about the butterfly –, in the valleys or on the slopes of our foothills, surrounded by swarms all dressed in white, going to defend the worker, the fighter, and the queen herself, making their honey together and collecting the royal jelly! And arm yourself with armor, because enemy there is: this invasive migrant, the Asian frelon. Your armor is certainly cabossed, a little out of sight, from the battles that you have lost by force not to lead them. These are the plagues that you still let run in our fields, in our woods, in our pastures. But since there must be war, the monarch must take the lead. [[Smile]] Yes, Mr. Therry, your resolution is beautiful and useful, probably born in the dawn and perhaps dead at dusk – you will have made it live, however, what the roses live, unless we hear Mrs.Bérengère Abba's Secretary of State swarm to us, up to you, the sweet whisper of her approval. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups. – Bruno Millienne and Maud Petit also applaud]] Yes, everything has been said, and this resolution will be voted unanimously. It takes us away, it is true, on the way to the bees; But this great cause also refers us to major political issues, which you have also addressed, and which we will discuss further, particularly in less consensual political debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u118	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u119	I look forward to speaking in this Chamber: the protection of bees is an issue that is important to me, and very timely. Rest assured that, while the stake may still seem minor to some, it concerns us all. To illustrate its centrality for our economic models as well as for our environment, I think it is necessary to gather a few figures: 35% of what we eat depends on insect pollination; Nearly 90% of flowering plants worldwide depend, at least in part, on insect pollination; 70% of crops depend on pollination; 40% of the agricultural economic value is directly related to the level of pollination; In France, nearly 55,000 beekeepers maintain 1360,000 colonies. Despite the multitude of ecosystem services provided by bees, their mortality in winter is 20% to 30%. As you will understand, we are facing a major environmental, health, security, economic and social challenge. We have long known the causes of this decline. The first is the adverse effects of our intensive agriculture on ecosystems and in particular on pollinators. Climate change, human activities and the exploitation of territories that alter the environment and the functioning of ecosystems, biological hazards, predators and parasites, among other things, are followed. Among these, Asian hornets, major predators of bee colonies, have been present on French territory since 2003 and have been proliferating alarmingly since. In the face of this worrying decline, we did not remain inactive. As early as 2017, the need to adopt more ecosystem-friendly cropping methods was stressed in the general states of food. Workshop No. 1, dedicated to the environmental quality of our food, workshop No. 11, dedicated to the ecological transition of the agricultural sector, or workshop No. 14, dedicated to the environmental performance of the sector, have all focused on finding concrete solutions to protect our ecosystems. The EGALIM law, passed in 2018, has thus enshrined our desire to increase the quality of our food model, the agroecological transition being essential to the notion of quality. Last June, our Minister of Ecological Transition, Barbara Pompili, and our Minister of Agriculture and Food, Julien Denormandie, jointly launched a national public consultation for pollinating insects and pollination. The Pollinators Plan will contain ambitious measures for the protection of habitats and the restoration of ecological services rendered by pollination. I particularly welcome the work done in this context. More recently, the climate and resilience law has reaffirmed the need for a rapid and effective agro-ecological transition, fighting future disruptions but also adapting to these upheavals. In this way, pollinators are a major lever of our adaptability, as the agricultural sector cannot do without it. More generally, it is about ensuring the integrity of ecosystems and biodiversity, without which human life cannot endure. Finally, Asian frelon is now on the list of invasive alien species of concern, adopted in 2016 by the European Union. Control operations under the Environmental Code have been in place since that date. In 2018, an order placed Asian frelon on the list of regulated species. We are therefore acting against its proliferation and will continue to do so. It is in this legislative and regulatory context that we are considering a motion for a resolution on the initiative of our colleague Robert Therry of the Republicans Group, which recalls these issues and proposes two measures: to invite the Government to declare the protection of bees as a national cause 2022 and to encourage it to reflect on the development of a national plan to combat Asian frelon. Given the context I have just presented, we will all agree on the systemic nature of the protection of pollinator populations. The two proposed measures therefore only complement all the actions we have undertaken since the beginning of our mandate. They reflect only a partial view of this problem which requires adaptations within all economic sectors with an impact on the observed decline. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But it must be noted that the two measures proposed by the motion for a resolution reflect an urgent need. The perception of this urgency is now transparant, almost consensual, and I welcome it. That is why I will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, which reflects a growing ecological commitment of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u120	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u121	How can we not agree with this motion for a resolution? You are right, colleagues in the Republicans Group, the bee is life! And the bee is a symbol too. In this year of Napoleon's bicentenary, I like to remember that he had chosen it to adorn his coat of arms. Unfortunately, this insect is in danger: in recent years, the bee population has been declining sharply and in some areas they are completely disappearing. The main figures were recalled; Allow me to choose some of the most eloquent ones: domestic bee populations fall by 30% each year in France. In Europe, they decreased by 25% between 1985 and 2005, and some suggest higher figures. In recent winters, bee population mortality has reached 53% in some countries. In France, annual honey production increased from about 35,000 tonnes in the early 1990s to about 15,000 tonnes today, a decrease of more than 50% over this period. If production is in free fall, honey consumption is very stable: it amounts to about 40,000 tonnes per year, which means that we import from various countries of the European Union, but also from China or Argentina, more than half the honey we consume. This imported honey is often cheaper, but also of lower quality. Let us ask ourselves about this fact. Anyway, it's time to take the problem with the body. The bee contributes to the reproduction of 80% of flowering plant species, making it a necessary ally of our ecosystems and agriculture. Again, as you said, dear Robert Therry, it is high time to stop opposing beekeepers and farmers. We must meet this challenge together, the challenges of which are so important. Among the many predators of our useful bees, there is one that is particularly dangerous: the Asian frelon, which attacks mainly the workers of the hives. Accidentally introduced into France in the 2000s, it quickly colonized and destroyed the hives, unfortunately without eliciting any reaction from politicians who were alerted to this growing threat. In Béziers, the city has its own hives and every year we organize the honey festival, which is always a great success. However, of course, this is not enough. If it is important to act at local level, because there are also actions in this field that save such things as planting honey, consuming local honey, sponsoring a hive, obviously that is not enough and we must act quickly at national and even European level, as the consequences of the disappearance of bees would be disastrous. The Government's national plan for pollinating insects, a kind of road map to counter the accelerated disappearance of these indispensable insects, was presented on 11 June. It covers the period 2021-2026 and brings together measures to restore the habitats of these insects, to improve the availability of their food resources or to restore the ecological services rendered by pollination. Despite these few advances, this plan remains insufficient and it is unfortunately below the expectations of beekeepers: according to beekeeping organizations, it is a blow of sword in the water. [[Applause on a few benches of the group The Republicans]] It is therefore high time to bring together the various actors around the table, starting, of course, with our farmers and beekeepers. Of course, this motion for a resolution must be voted on and, above all, it must be upheld so that the protection of the bee is declared a major national cause 2022. Let's protect our bees and eat French honey!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u122	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Robert Therry, I thank you for putting this motion for a resolution on the agenda, as I thank you for the commitment it shows. We often ask ourselves, within the State Secretariat for Biodiversity, how to better share these conservation issues. The bee gathers us together and mobilizes us almost instinctively for its defense. It opens the way for us to work together towards the environmental and agro-ecological transition. The domestic bee is an emblematic species in several ways: it is essential for the production of a very appreciated consumer good and a very good indicator of the health status of our environment. It is familiar and friendly to us, so that it provokes a broad mobilization. We are gathered today to safeguard it. Beyond preserving populations of bees and pollinating insects, we are talking about an ecosystem and the whole life of our territories. Beekeeping is indeed an important sector of the agricultural economy, both in terms of its role in maintaining bee populations and pollination, and in the production of honey, royal jelly and other hive products. It contributes to rural development and the maintenance of biodiversity thanks to the numerous producers, professionals and amateurs present on all French territory. France has around 54000 beekeepers for a production of 20,000 tonnes of honey per year, making it the fourth largest producer in Europe. The French consume almost 40600 tonnes per year; in other words, almost half of the honey consumed in France must be imported, which raises questions about the quality of this product. We therefore have an important responsibility in the protection of bees, in the protection of French beekeeping and in the supervision of products offered for consumption. The decline of pollinators is a general and long-term trend, which scientists have largely informed. This is a global reality, as recalled by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) in its 2016 special report on the subject. Their numbers tend to decrease everywhere in industrial countries; Although this decline has been observed since the 1970s, it is accelerating today, as evidenced by the inclusion of one species out of ten bees or butterflies on the Red Lists of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). In the winters 2017, 2018 and 2019, there was a decline in these bee colonies with mortality rates of 20 to 30%. Mr Therry, we agree with you that it is imperative to take strong action to protect bees. More generally, we want to put in place a control plan for pollinating insects. This motion for a resolution specifically targets Asian frelon. This is necessary, but it only partially responds to the challenges facing the beekeeping industry. The Asian frelon reminds us of how vulnerable our ecosystems are to invasive alien species; This case shows the importance of the stakes and their economic impact. The Government is preparing a specific action plan to combat these invasive species, which will be discussed in the coming weeks. I will accompany next Monday in Normandy a brigade of the Conservatory of Natural Spaces in its action on the ground. Asian frelon was first reported in Lot-et-Garonne in 2004. Today, it is reported almost everywhere in France. It reaches the honey bee colonies by direct predation as well as by the stress it causes, which has consequences for production. Several methods of control have been developed, but unfortunately they have not shown real effectiveness. We must therefore continue our efforts. Two regulations are being implemented: I have already mentioned our policy to combat invasive alien species; the regulation on the limitation of health hazards, it is controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, through a national plan for pollinating insects and pollination 2021-2026. It was the subject of public consultation last summer, and we received 17,000 contributions; That is to tell you how interested this subject is for our fellow citizens. It is therefore necessary to bring our policies into line with this interest and to strengthen our actions through this Pollinators Plan. As soon as the presence of Asian hornets is found, the prefects of the department may have their destruction carried out by order specifying the conditions of these operations. They can order the destruction of nests on private properties. Many communities then help individuals, technically, by mobilising the network of regional pest protection federations (FREDON), but also financially, by providing aid to offset some of the intervention costs. The Ministry of Agriculture finances various activities carried out by the Technical and Scientific Institute of Beekeeping and Pollination (ITSAP) or Bee Institute as well as the National Museum of Natural History, which identifies and validates tools to combat Asian frelon. It is necessary, prior to their deployment, to verify the effectiveness and the absence of adverse effects on the environment of the control tools envisaged. The actions financed have two components: a method of trapping the founders and the development of a protocol for the destruction of nests by poisoned bait. The first part, which has come to an end, shows that the number of nests of the frelon decreases significantly when the method is conducted over several successive spring, with a fine and regular spatial mesh, more than 200 traps distributed homogeneously over a radius of 10 square kilometres around the apiary to be protected. The second part aims to verify the effectiveness of poisoned baits and their absence of environmental impacts. If this method is effective, it will be up to the industry to take control of it or to the industry to carry out the authorisation procedures for active substances and then biocidal products. This methodology should allow us to find an alternative to fipronil, this highly toxic substance too often used without authorisation in the control of hornet. As for the destruction of nests, financial support from the beekeeping sector for the European registration of sulphur dioxide is already provided for by the Ministries of Environmental Transition and Agriculture. Sulphur dioxide would have several interests: it is very effective, safe for auxiliary wildlife, non-remanent in the environment and inexpensive. It shall not be registered or authorised for placing on the market. We must therefore take up this challenge both in France and in Europe. The beekeepers express a strong expectation, inviting us frankly to do so. Moreover, they already know this insecticide, used in the fight against the aethina tumida, the small beetle of hives – you recalled it, Mr Therry. In 2020, a monitoring working group was set up within the framework of the epidemiosurveillance platform, which is already developing appropriate tools. Nevertheless, the rescue of beekeeping is not limited to the fight against Asian frelon. Domestic or wild bees, bumblebees, butterflies, flies and their pollination activities play a key role in preserving ecosystems that we also need to strengthen, ensuring the quality and yields of our agricultural productions. Thus, 90% of the world's cultivated flowers depend, at least in part, on insect pollination and, in total, 35% of what we eat – including foods such as cocoa, coffee or spices – are pollinators' actions. Our national plan for pollinating and pollinating insects also proposes to amend the By-law on the conditions of use of agricultural insecticides and caricides to protect bees and other pollinating insects. The updating of risk assessment methodologies at European level, which integrates wild pollinators, is ambitious and protective. Since 2013, France, as you know, has played a leading role in defending alone or almost, I say, the consolidation of the current methodology, to take account of the latest scientific knowledge. Within the framework of European funding, in particular under the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the budget for the European beekeeping programme has increased from €3 million to €6 million per year. The envelope has therefore been doubled, which deserves to be welcomed. The plan also provides for the introduction of insect-friendly pollinators into the practices of many sectors of activity, whether agriculture, forestry, urban planning or industry. Of course, we must accompany the beekeeping industry by developing marketing, the viability of farms and by providing us with a large beekeeping stock. Health training is also essential. In addition, the plan will ensure that insect decline is reported objectively, by publishing red lists, including to better understand solitary species. It provides for the observation of stressors, as we have said. It will draw on all actors in the territory. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Therry, the action plan that you call your wishes, it exists and is ready to be implemented, the state is fully committed to it. We can collectively rejoice at this. If reading has been declared a great national cause until the summer of 2022, it is up to you to propose that it be done the same for the protection of bees. Even if your motion for a resolution deals only with the problem of Asian hornets, which is only one of the factors contributing to the reduction of pollinator populations, I agree with you on the need to bring this issue up and up. Given the symbolic dimension of the motion for a resolution, I will give an opinion of wisdom. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the Palais-Bourbon – or "Palais-Bourdon", to take up your good word, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u124	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u125	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 112 Number of votes cast 110 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 110 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u126	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u127	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u128	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law on the development of wind energy (No. 2781, 3594).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u129	On Thursday, 3 December 2020, the Assembly began the discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with amendment No. 19 on the additional article after article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u130	I have before me three amendments, Nos 19, 29 and 68, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 29 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 77. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u131	With this amendment by Mr Guy Bricout, we propose the return of the wind energy development zones (ZDEs), which were abolished in 2013 by the socialist government. This tool would help local communities to think and plan the development of wind energy on their territory independently, in conjunction with state services. It would make it possible to initiate real planning, and to give visibility and predictability to both the population and the project promoters. The amendment also aims to retain the scale of intercommunality, since the competences related to urban planning have been transferred to intercommunal level. Given the size of the projects, an intercommunal wind farm must be designed, with the aim of preventing a municipality from setting up, on the outskirts of its territory, a wind farm which would have a strong impact on the inhabitants of the neighbouring municipality. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister of Ecological Transition, to alert you to the situation that I see in the Somme – a department that you know well. Like you, I am approached by citizens who, although they are not hostile to the development of wind energy – just like me – recognize that our beautiful department has, more than others, contributed a great deal to the development of this energy: of the 8000 wind turbines in France, no less than 1000 are in the Somme. As Samaritans, we can be proud of our contribution, but stop! The poverty of our territory does not justify the massive lobbying of promoters. You say, Madam Minister, that our department is conducive to wind energy, because it is windy. We are therefore concerned about the potential target of an additional 12,000 wind turbines. A thousand more wind turbines, no! That's enough! Will you take into consideration the citizen referendum in which the inhabitants of the commune of Cartigny voted massively against a wind project?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u132	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u133	Beyond the report of the investigator's commissioner, who seems to be showing some hostility, the inhabitants have indeed moved to participate in a referendum – they were indeed more numerous than in the last regional and departmental elections. Minister, will the vote of the inhabitants of Cartigny and the municipal council be respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u134	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u135	This amendment by Vincent Descoeur aims to restore the wind energy development zones, as introduced in 2010 by the National Environmental Commitment Act, known as the Grenelle 2 Act, before being deleted. The EEZs provide a real framework for the establishment of wind turbines, integrating the particularities of the territories. They meet the wishes of many French people, who fear that the establishment of wind turbines will distort their tourist and ecological heritage and their living environment. The amendment would have another consequence: the wind development zones would be binding on the regional wind energy scheme, which is generally voted on without taking into account the particularities of each of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u136	I call Mr Le Fur to support sub-amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u137	There are wind turbines on land, but there are also wind turbines at sea visible from the ground. A project is of great concern to us in Brittany, especially on the coasts of the English Channel, off Erquy and Val-André: the installation of sixty-two wind turbines at sea by the company Iberdrola. If they are installed – which I do not wish – they will be extremely visible: each one is higher than the Montparnasse tower, and they will be implanted in a large space like the city of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u138	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u139	We are told that such parks exist – or will exist – in Britain. The latter envisages similar or even larger projects. It is forgotten, however, that in Great Britain, the wind farm will be more than 100 kilometres from the coast. It's not the same thing at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u140	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u141	I have a concern to protect us from it. It is also forgotten that these wind turbines will directly affect protected areas, particularly corals. We protect corals in the Pacific, but we forget them on the coasts of the Channel! These are the reasons why we need to be extremely vigilant; we must not sacrifice biodiversity-rich territories; We must not sacrifice our landscapes for projects in which we will absolutely not find our interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u143	[[The Minister of Ecology expresses her astonishment]] [["Oh!" on the benches of the LR group]] These projects are mainly carried out by foreign companies, which will employ machines manufactured far away from us and processes different from ours, and which, moreover, will produce extremely expensive energy, at more than 145 euros per megawatt hour. That surprises you, Madam Minister, but this energy will cost 145 euros per megawatt hour. We are waiting for you on the spot! You defend wind turbines at sea, it seems, but you do not come to talk with fishermen and associations that are mobilizing; You don't come to meet local elected officials either. We would be very eager to welcome you! Unfortunately, your schedule – which everyone knows is extremely busy – has for many years prevented you from coming to the Breton coast...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u144	It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u145	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u146	Aisne is also facing a problem of acceptability of wind energy development – I am speaking here in front of a number of picard colleagues, who share this difficulty. The development of wind energy is in confrontation with cultural and tourist projects and, more broadly, with land projects, in addition to striking the landscapes; so that it creates a feeling of exasperation – "too much is too much," in a way. We look forward to provisions that would allow for better planning and regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u147	It won't bring down the greenhouse gases!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u148	Planning and regulation are all the subject of Gérard Leseul's amendment, which aims to establish a territorial zoning of wind development. With the support of territorial coherence schemes (SCOT) and local inter-municipal planning plans (PLUI), it would contribute to better control of the implementation of wind projects. The amendment provides for three areas: one where the installation of wind turbines is prohibited, the other where it is authorised on a preferential basis, the third where it is authorised in the absence of a possible location in the preferential zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u149	Mr Julien Aubert, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these amendments and on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u150	The committee rejected these amendments and did not consider Mr Le Fur's sub-amendment. In my personal capacity, I find Amendment No 29 more protective, which was sub-amended by Mr Le Fur. You want to restore the ZDEs under various names – I would like to take this opportunity to greet our colleague Gérard Leseul, who has worked a great deal on a bill that could not be examined, and which he takes up in part here. I would like to draw your attention to one difficulty: if we adopt Amendment No 19 by Mr Bricout, a municipality could be forced to use a wind farm against its will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u151	As for the potential zoning of wind energy (ZIP) advocated by Mr Leseul's amendment No 68, it would be subject to a qualified majority, and the prefect would have the possibility of passing force, if the intercommunality did not take a decision. For all these reasons, I would rather call on you to adopt Amendment No 29 by Mr Descoeur, which was sub-amended by Mr Le Fur, as it extends protection to major sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u152	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u153	Allow me to take a few minutes to re-direct our work within its framework; I will then be able to respond more quickly to the amendments before us. As minister responsible for energy, my job is first of all to ensure that we respect the objectives of the Paris Agreement and therefore reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. This is my first mission. Secondly, as far as electricity is concerned, I must make sure that our citizens have the electricity they need today, but also in five, ten, twenty or thirty years. At this point, I have to break the overly widespread argument that we would not need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, since our electric mix is decarbonized. This is a rather gross error of analysis, which I unfortunately hear too often.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u155	It comes from a confusion between electricity and energy. In France, however, two thirds of energy consumption is still based on fossil fuels, including oil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u156	Good thing there's nuclear power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u157	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That's exactly the kind of argument we usually hear, which shows how poorly informed their authors are – but I'm here to help them and better inform them. Two thirds of our energy consumption is therefore seriously carbonised – oil, coal, gas, etc. My first action must therefore be to reduce oil consumption – we all agree. There are two ways to achieve this. The first is energy savings: we work with all possible tools – energy efficiency, sobriety... We do this, for example, in housing with the MaPrimeRenov system, which is a great success – proof of the desire of our fellow citizens for the isolation of their homes; They understand that they will gain in comfort and lower their bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u158	We need to develop nuclear power, that's what we were saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u159	Second, to reduce our oil consumption, we need to...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u160	Develop nuclear power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u161	...promote a number of uses of oil to electricity. This is what we are doing with the electrification of the vehicle fleet, but also, as part of the recovery plan, by supporting the decarbonisation of industrial processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u162	It goes through nuclear power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u163	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This is also what we do in buildings, with the replacement of heaters. [[Long exclamations on several benches in the LR group]] That's what I need to do to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. To achieve this, we need to generate more electricity. Serious agencies are planning to increase our electricity requirement by about 20% by 2035, i.e. within 15 years. We will therefore see a sharp increase in the demand for electricity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u164	She's changed her arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u165	The increase will be even greater by 2050: it is expected to reach 50%. In the face of such an increase in demand, and therefore in the need for electricity, I call on all Members who consider that a nuclear power plant can be built in less than ten years, to come and explain to me how they will proceed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u166	Make a decision now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u167	You could've avoided closing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u168	Be serious, come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u169	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] To meet this urgent need to generate more electricity – it's about avoiding widespread cuts, be aware of it – the only thing we can do, within fifteen years, is either to produce fossil energy or to develop renewable energy. Our choice is clear: to produce massively renewable energy (ENR) of all kinds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u170	Instead, develop nuclear power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u171	Mr. de la Verpillière, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u172	Once these explanations have been given, in keeping with everyone's words, you will understand that photovoltaics must be developed, but also methanization – because there is more than just electricity – heat grids, hydrogen and wind, whether on land or at sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u173	We don't understand it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u174	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[New exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] However, we are neither deaf nor blind. As an elected member of the Somme, I have been defending wind turbines for years, and I observe their deployment in the territories. There are places where things are going very well – I can take you there, Member of Parliament! In other places... I will continue to speak, even if you clearly deny the word of others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u175	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u176	In the Hauts-de-France, it's not going very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u177	I am elected from the Somme, and I know very well how this is going in the Hauts-de-France. You're not going to teach me what's going on in my area!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u178	And yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u179	We must therefore develop renewable energies; There are places where it's going well, and there are places where it's not going well. To find solutions, you need to understand why things are not going well in some places. Sometimes consultation has been clearly insufficient, or the need to protect landscapes has not been sufficiently taken into account. This was the case under the previous regulations, before wind turbines were included in the ECI system, facilities classified for environmental protection. Of course, the regulation has changed since then, but you know that there is inertia and that we have inherited situations that date back to this period and that we have to deal with. There is a feeling in a number of our fellow citizens that wind turbines are coming out of the ground like this, without consultation and without knowing whether we're going to stop there or whether we're going to continue...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u180	It's not just a feeling!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u181	But our citizens need to be able to plan for the future and be involved in decision-making. With regard to offshore wind, it has been possible to change things since the public debate was only opened once the location was decided and the company which was to carry out the chosen project, and thus the scope of the debate was limited. Since we arrived in 2017, we have made two laws that require public debate to take place very upstream so that everyone can be involved in the selection of sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u182	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u183	Moreover, the latest debate in Normandy has gone well and made it possible to move things forward. With the same objective of predictability, we will now be working on the frontal strategy documents, which will have to give visibility by providing for the installation of wind farms on an entire facade and not just on a piecemeal basis, because it is good, I believe, to have an overall vision. I come to the Earth wind farm, after having been far too long, Madam President – I promise you this is the last time! As far as ground wind is concerned, a number of announcements have been made yesterday, some of which simply summarize measures that had already been decided because we have already done things, I remind you, especially through the climate and resilience law. The aim was to put them in perspective with new measures, in particular with regard to consultation of mayors or to allow more precise consideration of the issues of landscape and biodiversity, or the participation of the sector in a fund for the development of projects for the preservation or restoration of our heritage, whether cultural or natural. In short, it is a question of enabling the industry to contribute to the acceptability of these projects and to the harmonious development of the wind energy we all want. You are asking by these amendments that the EEZs, which were deleted in 2013, be reintroduced with a planning objective. But this hybrid legal tool, comprising both an energy and an environmental component, was not adapted, as a result of this hybrid nature and its legal uncertainty, since the creation decrees had been recaptured, even though the philosophy behind their creation, i.e. the idea of planning, was good. You did not learn the lessons of this cancellation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u185	... and that is why I am against these amendments. In addition, we have already included this planning objective in legislation in a way that we believe is more effective. Indeed, the climate and resilience law provides for planning at regional level, allowing each region to participate in defining its own objectives, through regional energy committees whose composition has been decided by you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u186	Gas factories!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u187	They will thus be able to organize the development of these projects according to the potential of their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u188	They're not wind turbines anymore, they're gas plants!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u189	[[Applause on several of the LaREM group. – Smile on several benches of the LR group]] Mr de la Verpillière, you have a voice organ, my faith superior to many others, but that is no reason to use and abuse it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u190	A reflection of such finesse, I hope it will be included in the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u191	[[Smiles and applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will not comment on people who want to use their organ with an ambition that exceeds their possibilities – I don't know if it is, but it can happen! But I'll try to stay serious because the subject deserves it. Under the climate and resilience law, regional energy committees will be able to debate with all the players in the development of renewable energy on their territory. This is important because, since each territory is different, this development can take on different forms, from the moment everyone agrees and on condition that our greenhouse gas reduction and renewable energy development objectives are respected. Indeed, we must hold the objectives of the Paris Agreement to account. To assist these regional committees, prefects have been asked to map areas that can accommodate new wind turbines, taking into account various requirements: that there is enough wind, of course, but also heritage requirements, etc. These maps will help in thinking and decision-making. That's how it will work: if everyone gets around the table to find the best solution. We need renewable energy, all renewable energy: we need to use our collective intelligence to spread it across the territories. Perhaps it is no longer necessary to settle in territories where there are already a lot of them, but it is by intelligent reflection that we make progress, not by beating each other with an irresponsibility which, frankly, is not up to the challenge. Let me remind you that we are talking about our energy future, and nothing else. With regard to offshore wind, I met a few weeks ago in Saint-Nazaire with representatives of the fishermen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u192	The Fur wasn't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u193	... associations, but also all those who are going to have work thanks to these wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u194	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u195	I would like to continue to be irresponsible and to reject all the new energies as a whole, but for my part I prefer to admit that we have no choice: we need them, and on the contrary we have to make them an opportunity, because by means of refusal we let the trains pass. If, as you say, the panels and other components are manufactured elsewhere, it is because we have not been concerned about developing these channels. Well, we prefer not only to show a sense of responsibility but also to ensure that the development of renewables becomes an opportunity for the territories to create new jobs and channels, that it strengthens our energy independence and that it allows us to finally get on the ground in the future and to give our young people opportunities. That is why we support the development of these energies, and that is why I give a definitive opinion against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u196	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u197	Thank you, minister, for these clear explanations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u198	Luminous, even!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u199	... that help inform our debates by reminding us of the issues at stake. There is in my colleague's speech The Fur of the elements of common sense: yes, when installing an offshore wind farm field, it is necessary to ensure that everything happens at best, but for this it is not necessary to tell lies to the French. Mr. Le Fur, you're about 10 feet tall, right? From the beach of Erquy, you cannot see offshore wind turbines from the top of your meter seventy, the horizon line being 4.7 kilometres away. I'm not saying it, it's Pythagoras!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u200	We can see further!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u201	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] No! You would have to be at least 30 meters high to start seeing the wind turbines, and again, only a day of beautiful weather! Stop scaring people with these stories! Today we know how to do visibility simulations. These wind turbines will rarely be visible. From the beach of Erquy at any rate, it will be impossible to see them. Stop saying anything! Wind turbines off Cape Fréhel, a little closer than Erquy, are 16.3 kilometres away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u202	Mr Balanant, when a Member is speaking, he is speaking to the whole House: you do not have to question a colleague named as you have just done by asking Mr Le Fur to stop saying anything. Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u203	Thank you, Madam President. It is therefore to the whole House, and not just to my colleague Balanant, that I would point out that we can see well beyond 4.7 kilometres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u204	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u205	Yes, I do! People have realized this in the last few days, since from all points of the coast one could see the building which, posted on four lifts, carries out the drillings – it does not happen, by the way. But this building does not exceed 50 meters, while the wind turbines will be 207 meters high, yes, 207 meters! We'll see them all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u206	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u207	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] Forgive me, minister, but as Minister of the Environment, you should logically combat pollution. When I asked you about the three types of pollution that this project gives rise to, you gave me a new concept, that of "biodegradable pollution"! I hadn't heard that one yet, but since it seems that we must be open to newness... You are also the guardian of biodiversity, especially of this site where we find dolphins, porpoises, seabirds. And I am not talking about the Saint-Jacques shell, this wealth that our fishermen have been careful to preserve by imposing very restrictive rules. But you are going to be the cause of the destruction of whole swarms – I use this word for purpose since we have just talked about bees – of Santiago. This is a major difficulty. Finally, Madam Minister, you mention the need to fight blackouts, but we know that electricity generation by wind turbines is intermittent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u208	What a talent in bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u209	This is why this project of wind turbines off Erquy is associated with a site – this is a genuine gas factory, dear colleague of La Verpillière – which is located in Landivisiau, which was sold to us as a means of avoiding blackout when it is actually a matter of compensating for periods when wind at sea will not work. That's the reality! So face this reality! Come, not to Saint-Nazaire, surrounded by bodyguards and armed policemen, but come to us, where we will welcome you as we should. I will welcome you in the most republican way, and you will see that it is the jobs of more than 1000 fishermen that are threatened by this project, the jobs of people who work, who take risks. Well, I, these people, defend them, and I intend to continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u210	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor. Let us try to stay on the subject, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u211	[[Smile]] I won't go back to wind at sea: I don't have the technical skills and then, in my territory, it's been low tide for a little while... Madam Minister, I fully agree with what you have said about the need to produce renewable energy in order to comply with the Paris agreements and meet our energy needs, but know that we will not make the energy transition without the territories, let alone against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u212	Yes! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u213	You are talking about planning objectives within the framework of the SRADDET – regional schemes for planning, sustainable development and equality of territories – but this does not answer the question posed by these amendments, which is not that of their number but of their location, unlike these zonings. This is in the interest of this three-tiered, acceptable, preferential and authorized scheme. The aim is to make these projects acceptable so that the territories can participate in this energy transition effort by developing wind energy where possible. There are places where too much, too much, is needed to stop these projects or at least declare a moratorium in order to study the issue carefully. The big advantage of zoning is that it gives the floor to the elected representatives since it is backed by the urban planning documents of SCOT or PLUI.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u214	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u215	I felt uncomfortable when you spoke, minister. And for good reason! It is a founding intervention in relation to the arguments developed by yourself for years, and for decades by your ecologist friends. To date, wind development has been used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; That's what you sang to us in every tone. We have fought this idea by explaining that it is nuclear energy that makes it possible to decarbonize electricity. Wind energy, still wind energy, we have told you for decades, to take account of the Paris agreement and France's climate commitments. Now, at this moment, you have just told us that this is no longer the problem: if we have to install wind turbines, it is in fact because electricity consumption will increase in the years to come, since we have to reduce the share of fossil fuels. It's quite different! For years, all scenarios, that of TEN – the electricity transmission network –, that of ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Control – or the one that was adopted in the PPE – multi-annual energy programming – recently validated, assumed that there would be no increase in electricity consumption despite the development of electric mobility. Housing insulation would result in efficiency gains, storage in batteries would allow the electric vehicle to develop, in short, all this would be done without an increase in electricity consumption, we were told. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] The French can't do it anymore. On the wind turbines, they can't hear you anymore. The weather is changing, the wind is turning and the wind is no longer taking place among our fellow citizens. On the contrary, projects are increasingly being combated. You are brandishing a new argument, but we will also fight it throughout the debate on this text, because your change of position is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u216	Thank you for your time. Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u217	We all know each other now, and you know that as a former local elected representative I am a strong advocate of decentralization. There are many subjects that are the responsibility of the State, and it is at the national level that they must be addressed; others can be decentralized. However, if there is one that must continue to interfere with the State, that is the one. Why? Simply because every citizen, wherever he or she lives, must be able to light up, warm up, get cared for – in short, in all situations, he or she must be able to use electricity. Electricity generation must therefore be a national responsibility. I say that because all the previous amendments have been defended with the sole aim of preventing the establishment of wind turbines, protecting such territory, prohibiting them in another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u218	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u219	However, the majority of wind turbines that pose or appear to be a problem are only the girls of the ZDEs that were abolished in 2013. This is proof that these areas, which have allowed the installation of wind turbines, have not solved all the problems: you are the first to say it! Therefore, ZDEs are not the solution. On the other hand, this responsibility cannot be transferred to local elected officials without consulting them. The creation of a ZDE – I have created several – requires an important budget and sometimes in the intercommunal wars between local elected representatives that have not been consulted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u221	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, we will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u222	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2 and 49, which are the subject of a sub-amendment. We will then be able to consider the last amendment to the Article, which is also the subject of a sub-amendment. I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u223	I come back for a moment to the minister's opening remarks about the cards that we have been promised for some time and that the prefects have been responsible for drafting. Perhaps it would be appropriate to consult the elected representatives who have not yet been consulted, unless they are mistaken. Such a method might lead to solutions rather than litigation, as is the case. Amendment No. 2 aims to restore order in the wind turbine installation processes and to this end takes up the mechanism adopted by the Senate in 2016 to protect France's heritage against the installation of certain wind turbines, particularly in the vicinity of sites classified by UNESCO; It's a goal we should be able to find ourselves around. I take this opportunity to raise a matter that concerns our beautiful department of the Somme, Madam Minister. A project to install wind turbines is planned near the Australian memorial paying tribute to the soldiers who came to fight alongside us in 1916, in the Battle of the Somme. We have already asked you about this; What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u224	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u225	This amendment aims to protect the heritage against the installation of wind turbines less than 10000 metres from a historic monument or site classified by UNESCO by conditioning it with the favourable opinion of the architects of the buildings of France (ABF). In the Hauts-de-France, a region that you know well, Madam Minister, wind fields extend as far as you can see, ravage and envelop the landscapes in addition to concrete them. The north of the Oise, where my constituency is located, is often called the "Siberia de l'Oise": 191 wind turbines are being installed around Romescamps. The elected members of Fouilloy City Council – you will go to meet them – voted unanimously against and launched a petition. When will you take the opinion of the elected representatives into account? They do not want a concertation at the end of which we would end up imposing a project on them; They just want you to hear them. They are ready to make efforts and they do so: there are wind turbines in the Oise and the Somme, and 30% of wind turbines installed in France are in our region. But not all efforts can be concentrated in the same place! When will you count the elected ones, the inhabitants, the territories? The impact of wind fields can be all the more disastrous as they undermine the attractiveness of certain territories where the French no longer want to settle because nature is distorted. This applies to the most beautiful monuments in the country, classified as historical monuments or to the UNESCO heritage: the installation of wind turbines can seriously damage their beauty and attractiveness, thus adding to the financial and ecological cost they represent. Once again, I invite you to take into account the wishes – or the refusal – of the territories and not to be content with a fake consultation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u226	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u227	Be aware of the evolution of opinion on this issue, minister, and of the disorder in which many families find themselves. I am thinking of those who, from their homes, see twenty, twenty-five, sometimes thirty wind turbines: it is unbearable! Be aware of the fact that some sites are exceptional: this is the case with Cape Fréhel and its surroundings. It is a considerable heritage for us, a tourist attraction that we are ruining. I have the feeling, minister, that you're becoming more and more lonely. The President of the Republic expressed himself quite clearly – it was far from here, but in France anyway: in French Polynesia – to say that people and elected representatives had to be taken into account, and that there had been excesses. Integrate this! I also hear other ministers speaking: we have welcomed your colleague Annick Girardin to the Côtes d'Armor, who has come to meet the fishermen. The press asked her many times about wind turbines, but each time Ms Girardin replied that the subject was not within her competence but that of Ms Pompili, and that she was concerned only with fishing. Again, I have the feeling that you're becoming more and more isolated. Get out of this isolation! [["Very good! » on several benches of the LR group]] The newspaper Le Monde du jour announces that the President of the Republic intends to give priority to nuclear energy; That is how we can be for or against, but it is clearly the direction chosen by the President. Clearly, it is not a question of denying all wind turbines, but simply of the wanderings, the excesses that must be put to an end. Otherwise, our fellow citizens will turn away from the necessary choices for the country. Minister, I invite you to reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u228	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u229	This amendment, which several of us have co-signed, aims to protect the sites of our natural and historical heritage by requiring that wind turbines be installed at least 5 kilometres away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u230	I call Mr Le Fur to support sub-amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u231	I hope the minister will answer us. I have no a priori, but I hope that it will take into account the realities that date back from all over France: associations have been formed in the smallest commune! Let's make sure. My previous sub-amendment sought to ensure that the sites labeled "grand site de France" – which are not so numerous: only twenty-one – were protected. It's not much; Some of these places are emblematic, the French know them and visit them. We are committed to our heritage; The landscape is also an element of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u232	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u233	I shall start with Amendment No 58: I am against it. The majority often say that we want to kill the land wind industry, but I am against the amendment because the distance of 5 kilometres between the wind turbines and the listed or classified monuments is excessive and is not necessarily justified. In 2015, nearly 14,000 buildings were classified and more than 30,000 were registered; With this amendment, we could no longer install wind turbines in France. On the other hand, I am in favour of the assent of the architects of the French buildings. I take this opportunity to respond to Mr. Millienne...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u234	I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u235	...who, on Twitter, wrote that this measure is in bad faith because wind projects are subject to the regulatory framework which provides, in particular, for the agreement of the ABFs. In this case, it is a assent! You will understand why wind turbines are built next to the Royal Abbey of Saint-Jean-d'Angély, in Charente-Maritime, a UNESCO World Heritage site, why they are built next to the Sainte-Victoire mountain, or why they build thirteen wind turbines next to the Château de Crèvecoeur-le-Grand, and so on. So you can delete this tweet, it's not good.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u236	But the others are!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u237	I have more details for you, Mr. Millienne; You did well to come to court. I come to the Government's argument, starting by congratulating Mrs Pompili: speaking of dependence on oil and the need for electrification, she has just summarized half of the diagnosis made by the UMP – Union for a People's Movement – in 2013, when you were all plagued by antinuclear madness. We've gone from there. So we agree on one point: we have to electrify! Only, you rely on renewable energy, systematically invoking global warming and the need to reduce CO emissions. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Protests on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This will allow me to reply to this other tweet where Mr Millienne, decidedly very verve, relied on TEN's 2019 forecast balance sheet to write that the growth of renewable electricity production in France would have the effect of replacing it with some of the electricity produced outside France from gas or coal, thus helping to reduce European greenhouse gas emissions. Keep in mind three words: "outside France". The €70 or €90 billion we have spent in 30 years on the wind industry is therefore funding the reduction of emissions from our neighbours. That's what you think is smart! That's what your colleague says in the TEN report: don't say anything! I will also quote a source that you will be able to refute even less. The Committee of Inquiry's own report on the economic, industrial and environmental impact of renewable energies, adopted by the majority, contains, on page 11 of its Volume I, a quote from Jean-François Carenco, President of the Commission de régulation de l'énergie (CRE): "We must not be mistaken: thanks to the decarbonised energy mix, composed mainly of nuclear and hydroelectric energy, we are already benefiting from low CO emissions and a price of controlled electricity. As you know, we emit six times less CO than our German neighbours [...]. The development of renewable energy [...] is therefore not used to reduce CO emissions. This sentence can be found in its context on page 98 of Volume II. The members of this bipartisan commission of inquiry have therefore all agreed that the development of renewable energies does not help to combat global warming. Given this point, you will answer that we need to develop renewable energy for the next ten years with an investment perspective; You will add that in ten years, moreover, nothing can be done in the nuclear field. That's not true, Madam Minister. Construction of the European Pressurized Reactor EPR in Taishan, China, began in 2009 and was completed in 2018, nine years, compared to an average of seven years for wind projects!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u238	It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u239	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] If you had not worked hard for ten years to close the Fessenheim power plant, if you had not been obsessed with this poor nuclear industry, if we had given it the visibility it deserves, we would not find ourselves today in the need to fill the energy hole that you will leave us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u240	Mr rapporteur, what is your opinion on all of these amendments and on both sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u241	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u243	Mr rapporteur, since you are teasing Mr Millienne, allow me to paraphrase a tweet that you published this morning: "Barbara Pompili", you say, "announces the energy shift of the [Government] by validating the observation that the UMP published under my pen in 2013: our problem is dependence on oil, energy consumption will increase and not decrease". But it will indeed diminish; It's the power consumption that's going to increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u244	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u245	I am surprised that you are making such mistakes, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u246	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] Madam Minister, when Mr.Aubert says, for example, "Mr. President," everyone remains free to think what he wants of this formula: at least it is in accordance with the rules of the French language. When you call Mr Aubert "the rapporteur", however, this is a provocation that I cannot let go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u247	[[Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] With all due respect to your person as well as to your position, Madam Chair – and you know that I appreciate you very much – I ask to be called "Minister." If the honourable Member does not respect my will on this point, I will continue to call him "Mr rapporteur" and I will take responsibility for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u248	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u249	I regret, Madam Minister, you cannot twist the language in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u250	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u251	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] If Mr. Aubert calls you "the minister," he conforms to a usage accepted by the Académie française.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u252	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u253	"Mr rapporteur" is not in this case. Regardless of what everyone thinks, let us not engage in such provocations, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u254	[[Mrs Agnes Chill exclaims]] I therefore come to the amendments. In the cases provided for by law, the assent of an architect of the French buildings is required for wind turbines as for any other construction. There is therefore no exception to the rule. No doubt the fact is little known: whether it is for heritage issues or other reasons, the prefects refuse many wind projects. Please, there's no point in getting upset: I'm trying to stay here myself... To give you an order of magnitude, last year, these refusals concerned one third of the projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u255	We have to call the prefects!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u256	So we're far from letting anything happen! Only, once again, there are in some way leftovers of projects accepted at a time when the rules were less strict, insufficient cooperation. No one denies that! However, as these facts are established, we must move forward, be able to predict and involve everyone. This is why, among the measures announced the day before yesterday, the mayors' opinion is taken into account – which does not only mean that they will be informed, but that the actors in the sector will be obliged to dialogue with them, to respond to their remarks, to their recommendations, to their concerns. We also set up a wind mediator, which the prefects will be able to grasp in case of a problem manifest on a site, in order to bring everyone closer and find solutions. That is how it will be possible to function. Too strict a framework would prevent the development of the wind farm, which would be counterproductive in the future – for once again, if someone has a magic wand to produce electricity, in the next decade, apart from renewable energies and of course without gas or oil, let him come to me, I will listen with the utmost attention!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u257	You're changing your arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u258	There is no other solution. It is not I who say it, it is TEN, which is to present to me on 25 October six scenarios – costs, advantages, disadvantages – ranging from the predominance of nuclear power to its abandonment, and from a strong presence of renewable energy to... a strong presence of renewable energy. Indeed, all these scenarios, even with massive investments in nuclear energy, rely on 50% of electricity from renewable energies, in agreement with the nuclear industry, which by 2050 will not be able to provide more than half of the production. If we want the other half to be born, if we want us and our children to have the necessary, then it is imperative that we develop all renewable energies. We are trying to be pragmatic, to get out of postures, oppositions that are not constructive. Let's finally try to work together! The announcements we made on Tuesday were welcomed. The Amorce Association is ready to work from this point; Environmental protection associations, such as WWF, the World Wildlife Fund, too. I repeat, that is the way to proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u259	We talked about biodiversity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u260	I was the first to hold the post of Secretary of State for Biodiversity, and I will not let anything happen about it, to which I remain very attentive. In particular, the prefects were asked to gather what we know about the subject, so that we could have a complete scientific bibliography for each facade. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur exclaimed]] All the other countries that can have developed a wind farm at sea, unlike France, we use their feedback: these devices work, fishermen continue to operate, including in very fishy waters off the British islands. We have to stop scaring everyone! Procedures exist to minimize the impact on biodiversity. When a problem occurs, we find solutions. We always monitor Iberdrola very closely, after reminding her to order about the so-called biodegradable oil that has spread in Saint-Brieuc Bay. Excuse me, but in this bay, other activities also use oil! These are things that happen! It is only important that all this be properly framed so that there is as little pollution as possible. All activities have an impact, Mr. Le Fur, stop calling into question only wind turbines! Let's be serious! The fishermen themselves recognize that their activity has environmental consequences, which they are working to reduce; However, are we considering banning fishing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u261	Why did you allow drilling in the middle of the fishing season?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u262	The drilling will stop; schedules have been established with the fishermen. In short, I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u263	Mr President, is your opinion in favour of sub-amendment No 78?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u264	Favourable, Madam President. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that the report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) presents the demand for primary energy in gigatons of oil equivalent as being expected to increase in all the scenarios studied, including the most pessimistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u265	As there are many requests for intervention, we will only hear one speaker per group, otherwise we will not get out of it. In other words, I will only accept one speech per group, but that does not mean that all groups must speak! Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u266	[[Ms. Karine Lebon applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the FI, LaREM and Dem groups]] I did not know that you would speak for yourself on the subject on which I will begin, Madam President. You will not be surprised, Mr rapporteur, that the first of the three points I intend to make is addressed to you. As a Member of Parliament, I cannot go against the laws adopted in this House; However, in 1998, our predecessors voted in favour of the feminization of securities. So there are things I can't accept and behaviors I can't stand. Ms. Chair, Ms. Minister, Ms. Rapporteur, Ms. Member of Parliament. That has been voted on here! We owe respect to our former colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u267	What does it have to do with wind turbines?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u268	Secondly, despite my opposition to these amendments, I would like to point out that whether it is in bills or in bills, we are systematically seeing a problem of consultation with the elected representatives that the government, the minister, should take to heart. I have already told this anecdote, but I will do it again: recently, the prefect of my department, to whom I was talking about consultation, told me that he kept the elected officials informed – which is not the same as consulting them! I believe, Madam Minister, that the slogans that may be given to the Prefects by the Government are not the right ones. They make decisions before informing the elected representatives of their department, and that's where we get it: the only thing that is requested through these amendments is a consultation with the elected ones! They want to play a role. In fact, what door are we going to hit next? I want to say that we Members are relatively protected because our citizens do not know our addresses. On the other hand, they all know where their mayor lives and so know where to find him to complain! I think it is necessary to make it clear to the prefects that they must no longer inform their elected officials, but consult with them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u269	I beg you, Mrs. Fiat, to respect the time allotted to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u270	Did I get past him?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u271	That's what happens when you don't talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u272	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u273	You do me too much honor, Mr. Aubert, by quoting my tweets. Thank you: it makes me advertise, which is always good. I also thank you, Madam Minister, for defending one. There are five remaining: we will come to that during the session! With regard to my second tweet, which the minister was unable to defend, I would point out that until proven otherwise, greenhouse gas emissions do not know borders. They are not like the Chernobyl cloud and do not stop at the borders of France. The fact that we are reducing our emissions therefore also benefits others: there is nothing contradictory here, Mr.Aubert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u274	You don't understand! Read the note again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u275	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I'm going to nuclear. We too want to retain a share of nuclear energy in the production of the total energy consumed. But I am sure that as a pronuclear, Mr. Aubert, you know that an EPR of the type of Flamanville produces 10 terawatt hours. To completely do without the share of oil in the energy we use today, it would take 850 terawatt hours, which is equivalent to eighty-five EPRs – explain to me, Mr.Aubert, how to build them in ten years! This shows that we need renewable energy, including wind turbines. CQFD!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u276	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u277	I would like to respond to some of the comments I have heard. I'm tired of being blamed for the majority of us killing nuclear power! Who among us voted to leave nuclear power in France? We are simply saying that today's electricity generation depends on 75% of nuclear power – that's a fact – and that we want to reduce it to 50%, rightly. I would point out that, for short-term reasons, 50% of nuclear reactors had to be shut down or were in non-operation last year. As a result, we produced CO, because the closures of coal and gas plants had to be delayed. There is therefore a correlation between the two events, which implies having an alternative; and today we have renewable energies. It is often said that nuclear energy is excellent for the climate, because it does not produce CO. No one disputes that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u278	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u279	But I would also like to talk about the environmental debt, the radioactive waste that we leave for not ten or a hundred years, but for thousands of years, and whose children's children's children will inherit. This debt is also a share of responsibility. I come to the question of tariff acceptance. I also participated in the committee of inquiry into the impact of renewable energy and the social acceptability of energy transition policies. As part of the fact-finding mission on the follow-up to the closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant, in which I also had the honour to participate, I was able to see that a call for tenders for photovoltaic installations can be made today on the basis of 55 euros per megawatt hour at full cost – construction, maintenance and dismantling. This is well below the cost of the Flamanville PRT, which is now estimated to be well over 80 euros per megawatt hour. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Tariff acceptability therefore implies also ensuring that the energy mix allows, in particular through renewable energies, to maintain a low rate over time. We must stop making the French believe that nuclear power costs nothing and that it is necessarily cheap. That's not true! I just wanted to restore those few truths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u280	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u281	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I would like to return, Madam Minister, to my colleague Emmanuel Maquet's amendment to prohibit the installation of wind turbines near UNESCO protected areas. In my constituency there is a beautiful village, Les Riceys, classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site because of its 866 hectares of vines. Today it is proposed to install a field of wind turbines a few kilometers away. How can such a facility be authorized near a site like this? It's unthinkable! Wine growers are asked to treat their crops less, to provide for areas of non-treatment, to use fewer and fewer products and to develop a tourist activity to compensate for the disappearance of shops in rural areas, while you, Madam Minister, set up wind turbines in these places! How can I do that? It's implausible. We had to accept my colleague Maquet's amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u282	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u283	I would like to correct two or three things. I'm going back to your argument, Mr. Millienne. Knowing that all the wind turbines produced 27.8 terawatthours in 2018 and that the load rate of a nuclear power plant reaches 70%, when that of a terrestrial wind turbine is 22%, you are not going out winning a terawatthour calculation! To replace a power plant like Fessenheim, which produces 5.7 terawatt hours in a year, it would take several hundred wind turbines. In addition, Mr. Millienne, who was visibly absent,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u284	He's gone to tweet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u285	...did not understand what I said earlier. Our electricity is already decarbonized. When we invest EUR 100 billion to transform decarbonated electricity into decarbonated electricity, we do not save CO! In view of the European electricity system, substitution may take place with foreign gas power plants. But is it smart to spend 100 billion euros to help his neighbour decarbonize? This money must be used for our own decarbonation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u286	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u287	...to reduce our consumption of oil and gas, not that of the neighbors! This seems obvious to me both from an economic and a budgetary point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u288	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u289	Both cited many figures earlier. For my part, I have consulted the annual report of TEN, which is particularly well done. In 2020, a year probably exceptional due to the crisis, France produced 500 terawatt hours and consumed 460 of them. Overall, even though our country imports energy at times and exports it to others, 40 terawatt hours have been produced in excess. Wind energy provided 39.7 terawatt hours in 2020. This means that, even if there had not been one wind turbine in France, we would not have encountered a problem of blackout or too little energy produced. I see you questioning your services, Madam Minister, but you just need to look at the 2020 TEN report to find all the elements. I would add that wind energy costs a lot, even if the figures that have just been recalled tend to reduce this cost, and we export it to neighbouring countries at very low prices, which makes us lose money. Overall, France loses money with wind energy and this energy is of no use, since we do not need it. In addition, wind energy poses a real problem for landscapes, especially since some wind turbines now have masts over 240 metres high. It also results in a loss of value for nearby properties estimated by studies to be between 30% and 40%. Some doctors even explain that wind energy can cause neurological problems. All of this leads us to propose amending Article 2 so that the local authorities can issue an opinion which is taken into account. You said, Madam Minister, that a third of the projects did not succeed. Well, let the municipalities decide: the settlement communes but also the riparian communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u290	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u291	I shall begin in a positive way, thanking the Group of the Republicans, even if I absolutely do not agree with the vision developed by the text that it submits to us. I believe that we need democratic debates on energy issues, but that these are never asked – especially when Emmanuel Macron decides that we will continue with nuclear energy, especially with the RMS, or small modular reactors, which he wants to develop. I remind you that this is a technology that we don't know yet...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u292	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u293	... and that it could only be developed in 2035 at best, which responds very well to the ecological emergency! That was my first point. Secondly, what is the problem with our debate? It is not a question of deciding on the regulations to be introduced for the development of wind or solar energy, for example to ban it on cultivated land. It is true that this work must be done, but the fundamental problem – which you forget – is that the best energy is that which is not produced and that no energy is neutral in environmental matters. There is another problematic blind spot: a euro can only be spent once. Nuclear energy, which is praised in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, is an extremely expensive energy, which is more expensive today than renewable energy. We know that; I will not tell you that the EPR bill has increased from €3 billion to €19 billion. Nuclear energy is also not a clean energy as stated in the same explanatory memorandum: it makes us dependent on uranium and its extraction in other countries and generates waste that we do not know what to do, for example in Bure. What makes me laugh is that with Article 2, ladies and gentlemen, you want to commit yourself to environmental democracy when we did not hear you commit yourself to environmental democracy when nuclear reactors were installed, or waste was buried in certain municipalities, or when environmental democracy was weakened by the law of acceleration and simplification of public action (SAAP) and the law for a state at the service of a society of trust (ESSOC)! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Karine Lebon also applauds]] The debate must take place, but you are leading a rear-guard war against wind energy – and even though France is the penultimate one in terms of investment in renewable energies. Today, we should study how to reach 100% renewable energy: it is the only resilient solution to climate change, while nuclear energy is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u294	Let it be said and heard!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u295	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u296	The title of this bill "to reason wind development" seems to me to be a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u297	We had to make amends!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u298	Rather, it should have been called "Little Manual to Prevent Wind Development." I have rarely seen such an ideological bill on this subject! It is better for us to say so and to explain the reasons for this, ladies and gentlemen. When I see our objectives for the development of renewable energies – terrestrial and marine wind, solar – and when I see that we find all possible solutions to prevent it with totally irrational arguments, I am surprised: it seemed to me that our friends in the group The Republicans were rational! I thought they would be based on scientific studies, but we can't find the source of those they cite.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u299	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u300	It's still amazing! You are complaining, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not giving our hands to the territories on these matters and that we are not listening to them. The ten measures listed by the Minister clearly give the territories their chance. I don't think you need to read it, you must have read it before our session. I believe that the proposals to "train projects with the highest level of demand" and to "reduce the impact of wind farms on local residents" answer the questions that we are asking ourselves today in the Chamber. It seems to me that these are a lot of discussions for nothing – which I am surprised about, with the Dem group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u301	That's a lot of wind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u302	Your intervention, yes! With her we'll be able to produce electricity soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u303	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u304	Madam President, I have asked to be included in Article 2 because the deletion amendments tabled by Mr Perea and Mr Leseul are likely to be adopted and therefore bring down the amendments that I intended to defend. But I wanted to speak about them. The construction of wind farms is one of the solutions supported by the Government to ensure the ecological transition. Macron has thus endorsed the installation of an additional 12,000 wind turbines by 2028. Let us remember, however, that this construction will require the sinking of some 18,000 tons of concrete, which, mechanically, will pollute our soil, damage the local fauna and flora and devastate our landscapes. In other words, the French are increasingly opposed to it, as a number of polls published in 2019 reveal. In the Journal du Médoc, 68% of the 2000 voters voted against a project of twelve wind turbines in Lesparre-Médoc; In Maine-Libre, 78% of the 2265 voters opposed the establishment of wind turbines in the Sarthe; to the question of the Point "Do we need to multiply the installations of wind turbines in France? 53.2% of the 54,363 participants responded "no". It is therefore essential to take into account the views expressed at the local and national levels. It is important to respect the will of the local population when it considers that the installation of wind turbines is not desirable. It is simply a matter of respect for the French. Let us recall the remarks made by Mr Macron himself in Pau last January: "the consensus on wind energy is clearly weakening in our country"; "we cannot impose wind from above."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u305	Or nuclear waste!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u306	It's all said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u307	Mr Michel-Kleisbauer, I cannot give you the floor on the Rule: the rule is that only one speaker per group should speak and Mr Lainé had already registered for your group. You will be able to intervene on the amendments. I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 46 and 70. I would like to inform you that they are the subject of a request from the Republican Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alain Perea has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u308	I am pleased that there is a public vote because I have no doubt that these amendments will be unanimous. Since we began our consideration of this bill, we have been talking about consultation and many have stressed the need to work with local elected officials, to give them more responsibility and to listen to them. However, Article 2 opens up a possibility which goes against everything you defend, in colleagues: if a community of agglomeration XXL of 300 communes takes the decision to create a wind farm, a municipality bordering only 50 inhabitants will be able to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u309	Yes, because she's concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u310	Of course, as Mrs Fiat has explained, it is necessary to consult the local elected representatives, but at some point it is important for an authority, in this case the Prefect, to take a decision. We already have all the bodies to work with local elected officials. We have added to the Minister's proposals the creation of a mediator and, as a last resort, a judge can intervene. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We are against this article and propose its deletion. To allow a single sparsely populated municipality to oppose all others would be a sign of contempt for local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u311	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u312	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u313	We, too, oppose this veto. I do not think that this is the best way to give the floor to those elected from a democratic point of view. We also oppose this because we consider it to be a way for the authors of this text to manifest their systematic rejection of wind energy. Our position is more nuanced. We believe that moratoria could be decided in certain territories where there is a problem of acceptability, when too much is involved. The SOC Group favours a planning logic allowing local elected representatives, within the framework of urban planning schemes, to define development zoning as a prohibition in order to meet the needs of the territories and to promote a fair distribution of efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u314	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u315	Madam President, I will reply to the various speakers. Mrs Fiat, you can't tell the difference between an EPR and a current reactor more than between a circular and a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u316	But what a contempt! That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u317	It's just law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u318	No! It's extremely contemptuous! Keep it to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u319	When you make the law, it's better to know the difference between a circular and a law, whether you like it or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u320	When you make the law, you make the difference between the president and the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u321	And when we talk about energy, we do not invoke the EPR of Flamanville to explain that the historical nuclear park, whose cost is already amortized, is responsible for the increase in the electricity bill of the French! That's completely wrong! At one point, we have to choose: we either discuss it on a rigorous scientific basis, or we do the show. In this case, you chose to perform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u322	You're the one who's making a lot of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u323	It's like Pradieu, a great lesson in humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u324	Let's quote numbers, if you want to. The cost of the historic nuclear park was estimated by the Court of Auditors between EUR 70 billion and EUR 90 billion. If we wanted to rebuild the current fleet, which has supplied 70% of French electricity for 40 years, it would cost us between 70 billion and 90 billion euros and you will explain to us that we must fill the energy hole for the next 15 years with the PPE – multi-annual energy programming – whose cost will be around 100 billion euros. Where is the budget hubris? I'm asking you. How do you intend to finance both your renewable energy development plan and the future of the nuclear park?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u325	Who are you laughing at?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u326	The NOME law of 2010 is bad, you're right, but it's another subject. Mr. Lainé, you spoke of "draft" and even "incoherence". But isn't the inconsistency on your side? You defend the prefect's role in supporting the development of wind energy while you are a member of a department, the Landes, where it was precisely the prefect who ended a project, that of Rion-des-Landes. As for you, Mr Perea, should I remind you that there are no intercommunalities in France composed of 300 communes? The most important are the urban community of the Basque Country – 158 communes – and the urban community of the Grand Reims – 143 communes. So I don't know what this macro-intercommunality corresponds to. We, we propose that it be the mayor...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u327	[[Smile]] Or the mayor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u328	... which in the end holds a right of veto when the concertation you claim is, in reality – as we know very well since the Citizen's Convention on Climate – only a "blablative" democracy. Even when people disagree, they are told that the project will still be done. It's often a waste of time, and it's also an engine of frustration. Mr. Millienne, you tweet a lot and I read another of your tweets earlier: "Each project is the subject of consultations within a radius of 6 km around the site, or even more. A public inquiry is also, of course, carried out systematically. It's sad, but we've been getting used to this populist talk since LR went straight to the far right. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u329	That's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u330	Let's take a random department, Mr. Millienne: the Yvelines, of which you are elected, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u331	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u332	What is the commonality between Crespières, Flacourt, Blaru, Saint-Illiers-la-Ville, Épône, Arnouville-lès-Mantes, Lommoye and Hargeval?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u333	You'll tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u334	First, seven of these eight municipalities are in your electoral district. Then, these eight municipalities had been identified by the Regional Agency for the Environment and New Energies to host wind farms. And the eight projects went wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u335	This proves that there has been a concerted effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u336	Why? Because of the opposition of the residents. You are talking about consultation, but you can see that there is a problem in France. Your own municipality, Jumeauville, faced, in 2004, two installation projects of fifteen wind turbines, voted against. All this shows that the municipalities are calling for help.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u337	I thought we couldn't question a congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u338	I took the Yvelines but I could have cited the case of many other departments where, despite opposition from the municipalities, regional nature parks, departments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u339	We can go out and leave you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u340	Mrs. Fiat, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u341	They're talking to each other! I want someone to talk to me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u342	Mrs Fiat, this is becoming impossible! Maybe you want to be named "reporter"?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u343	[[Smile]] Bravo! That's it, he understands!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u344	I knew it would touch your heart! As soon as we hurt the spelling, you're by my side. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that, everywhere in France, local and regional authorities are opposed and that poses a real democratic problem. We do not need massive wind turbines, it would be a budgetary and industrial loss. The logic is that they are installed where there is wind and social acceptability. There is no point in saying that we are going to create parks for and against everything because it causes frustration. Might as well go faster and identify areas of consensus among communities. Moreover, the work of the commission of inquiry clearly showed that the projects that worked were those that had been supported from the outset by the mayors. You will not build an energy policy without men, or without women, and without local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u345	"Without women", but only progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u346	I'm gonna lose the thread!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u347	There are women and men: welcome to the 21st century!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u348	Mrs. Fiat, please, I invite you to the discretion. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u349	We have already had these discussions on the need for consultation. I think that Article 2 proposes a very bad solution and I obviously agree with the arguments put forward on these benches, in particular by Mr Perea. As far as a national issue is concerned, the mayors cannot be left entirely alone, or it would be a poisoned gift. The mayors must be consulted and among our ten proposals mentioned by Fabien Lainé is the creation of local project committees around the mayors intended to make exist the concertation. We cannot achieve this if we do not give visibility to the territories. And we have developed a method of trying to reach consensus. If you give mayors the right to vet, you will put on their shoulders the responsibility of accepting or refusing the parks, which will mean that they will be under pressure since the NIMBY movements – not in my backyard – are present throughout the territory. They may find themselves trapped, taken hostage by people who are not necessarily representative of the entire population. Ms Ménard referred to surveys based on Internet sites, which are actually wasteland. Instead, I invite you to look to serious institutes such as Harris Interactive, which has just published this afternoon a poll that says that 73% of French people would be in favour of wind energy – 77% in the Hauts-de-Frances and 75% in the Grand-Est.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u350	As long as it's not home!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u351	We can say that it accurately reflects the state of opinion. Those who agree, by definition, do not gratify; And those who do not gratify, they are not heard. Attention must therefore be paid to the growing effect of the actions carried out by certain associations or networks. I do not deny that projects can raise problems in certain territories, and we are trying to take them into account. It's about doing things right. I do not agree with putting such pressure on the elected representatives, which is why I am voting in favour of these two deletion amendments. I would like to touch on one last point, which concerns Mr Sermier. When he talks about the production of some type of electricity, he forgets that consumption varies over the months: it peaks in winter. The European electricity market allows us to overcome the problem of times when our needs exceed production, especially in the winter – during this season, wind turbines avoid massive imports. To give you recent figures, we exported in 2020_77.8 terawatt hours and imported 34.6 of them, almost half of them from Germany and Benelux. France imports mainly in winter, during peak consumption and on average – even if we must be careful about it – forty days a year, in order to cope with the problems of peak consumption. If we didn't have wind turbines, we would import more. Consumption in France is not uniform throughout the year: it is in peaks and hollows. This makes no sense to cite data presented linearly if they are not related to fluctuating consumption. I don't know where you come from, according to which we could produce 60 gigawatts for 90 billion euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u352	A report from the Court of Auditors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u353	If these were the RPRs, we would certainly get much more important figures. Instead of reporting figures in this way, let us meet when the TEN scenarios are communicated. These scenarios, which are based on extensive research as well as a report on the new nuclear, will allow us to estimate the cost of different solutions: for example 100% NRAs, or a higher percentage of NRAs than currently and a slightly lower share of nuclear power, or a slightly higher share of nuclear power produced by old plants or the opposite of new nuclear power plants. This will provide us with projections on which to work. But swinging numbers like you do, mixing carrots with potatoes, doesn't make it possible to work properly. Let us wait quietly for October 25 – this date will come very soon – and let us study the different scenarios to have a calm discussion about our energy future, about which we will have to take our responsibilities. We are expected by the French to face these important and heavy challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u354	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u355	I want to return, through Article 2, to the public consultation which is absolutely necessary on this type of project and in particular on what you announced a few days ago, Madam Minister, concerning the opinion of the mayors. I mean, do I want to say it! They spontaneously express their opinion on what is happening in their territory, but this one, as you know, is never in the end followed. This is also the problem of public consultation: what is the point of soliciting people's views if they are not respected? This is often what provokes anger, in a French society so fragile: people are mobilized for whole evenings to explain the projects to them and, when they oppose them, they are answered: "It is not very serious; We will re-explain you". In other words, they are told that they have not understood what is explained to them. It's provocation. I understand, Madam Minister, by listening to what you have just said, that it will not be a matter of obtaining the assent of the mayors, but a mere opinion. So we are going back to the same process: communities' views are likely to be largely ignored, although some of them are primarily interested in tax benefits, as you know. Land owners and communities may see this as an interest, but it does not reflect your commitment to the energy policy you want to pursue. That is why I would like to draw your attention to the matter: you are going to break up the territories again. You know that wind energy generates tensions in the territories – particularly in the Hauts-de-France and in the department of the Somme that you know well – which we parliamentarians must try to settle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u356	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u357	[[Extended exclamations on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Colleagues, we must respect the local elected representatives, who are responsible and know their territory. Of course, the members of this majority ignore them because their personal experiences are such that they have hardly come across them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u358	You don't even believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u359	[["Scandalous! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is a reality! That is the consequence of the law on the cumulation of mandates, as we know well. However, you are very happy to find them when things go wrong: remember during the health crisis, when we were so brazen about the prefect-mother couple. I give you a very specific example: with regard to the wind project that I mentioned earlier off the Val-André and Erquy municipalities, a departmental advisory commission was set up, but the mayors concerned were excluded from the consultation. That is the reality, Madam Minister, and you would know if you had come to our department. Mayors are not the only ones to become hostile to these projects: more and more environmental associations oppose wind energy, at least in the territory I know well. This is the case of Garder les Caps in particular, which does a remarkable job, but also of Sea Shepherd, a well-known association that has made a magnificent film on corals off Cape Fréhel, in this area which could, tomorrow, suffer the consequences of the installation of wind turbines. Madam Minister, you would know if you had come to see us, but that was not the case. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You would also know that we are not opposed to new energies. I believe that solar can provide some solutions, as well as methanization in the field of electricity or gas. I am also thinking of the swell: we are developing a project on the Bay of Saint-Brieuc which you could have known once again if you had come. Yes! Public life is about going to the field, even when it's not that easy. The swell generates energy, probably at much more favourable costs than the wind turbine. For all these reasons, it is essential to put the local elected officials, who know their territory, in the loop.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u360	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u361	Mr Aubert, I congratulated you earlier on opening the debate, because we need to discuss our country's energy policy. The minister tells us that we will have these discussions, but we know that they never give rise to in-depth debate and that they do not allow us to collectively define rules, which is a problem. I congratulated you, I said, but I heard the remark you made to my colleague Caroline Fiat: you probably would have preferred to live in the 19th century, when there were only men in the National Assembly, but that is your problem. Stop your unbearable contempt and make arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u362	You don't listen to them, the arguments! What a victimization! Stop talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u363	We are developing arguments and it would be good if you would do so when you answer us, instead of showing a crumbling condescendency and an absolutely irresponsible sexism! Secondly, we have arguments on nuclear energy; You may not like them, but the democratic debate is also that. We say that nuclear energy is a dirty energy, which provides for the landfill of waste in Bure to which we oppose,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u364	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u365	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u366	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] ...and expensive energy, which is not resilient to climate change. These arguments, whether you like them or not, are also raised by many associations and we will continue to defend them. [[Mrs. Caroline Fiat applauds. – Mrs Karine Lebon also applauds]] You are telling us, Mr rapporteur, – this is perhaps the only argument that you have developed: how will you invest in 100% renewable energy, while retaining nuclear energy? That is the choice on which we must decide, in all democracy. If the idea is to keep nuclear reactors that, I would remind you, were originally designed for a period of thirty years, with the scandals that we know – especially that of Creusot Forge's evils – then yes, we have to ask ourselves the question. We refuse to continue for tens and tens of years with nuclear reactors and nuclear power plants, in which investments are massive, especially in the big carenage. On the contrary, we believe that we need to plan for the exit of nuclear energy and invest in renewable energy. It is in this way and, of course, first and foremost, through energy efficiency and sobriety that we will obtain an energy model that stands and is not a great waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u367	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u368	If it is assumed that the direction of energy policy must be determined at the central level – whatever it may be and whatever our assessment of this policy – it is not possible for the members of the GDR Group to let a line of pen be removed, as these two deletion amendments do, the question of local consultation. Beyond democracy, this is the debate at the local level on balanced land-use planning. We all know how the concertation that is often promised to us already boils down to a bla-bla-bla-bla concertation. Whether it's on this issue as on many others – prisons, traveler's areas of great passage, etc. – it is often at the height of the pouque, to the detriment of the one who is not in the small papers of the president of the community of communes and who will pick up the problems. However, the debate is taking place locally. We do not see this as the best way to move forward on a particularly thorny issue. That is why we will either abstain, or I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u369	There are still registrants, but there are too many of you who want to express themselves. I propose that we limit ourselves to two speakers, and I will endeavour to turn the floor. Thank you for your understanding. I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 46 and 70 to delete Rule 2. I recall that they received an unfavorable opinion from the Commission and a favourable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u370	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 50 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u371	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No 37, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u372	An analysis entitled "Costs and profitability of renewable energies in metropolitan France", produced in 2014 by CRE, indicated a significant decrease in investment and operating costs in the photovoltaic sector since 2010, mainly due to the decrease in the price of modules, which alone accounts for almost half of investment expenditure. It concluded that the photovoltaic industry has led to a significant reduction in production costs due to a scale effect – the most powerful parks are generally cheaper – and a learning effect. If neither wind energy nor photovoltaics are able to secure French energy sovereignty, it is important, when choosing one or the other of these technologies, to put them in open and fair competition, in order to allow a better allocation of resources, since wind energy may not always be preferable to solar energy. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u373	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u374	It aims to repeal the guaranteed redemption rates set by the Order of 17 June 2014, which sets out the conditions for the purchase of electricity produced by land-based wind turbines. This rate is fixed for a given year. This scheme is superimposed on the remuneration supplement introduced by the Law on the Energy Transition for Green Growth, thus contributing to a form of over-subsidization of unprofitable technology. According to the CRE, in 2017 for example, electricity consumers paid €5.6 billion in additional costs, linked to the purchase rates for renewable energy, wind or solar sources.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u375	I have before me three amendments, Nos 62, 18 and 39, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur's amendment No 62 is being defended. I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u376	It aims to propose a distribution key to move towards a more balanced development of our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u377	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u378	It aims to give the regions the right to veto the installation of additional wind turbines, in the event that the ratio between the installed wind power per square kilometre and the average wind potential is more than twice that of another region – which we are approaching in the Hauts-de-Frances. The aim is to give an additional role at regional level in the management of the wind farm, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u379	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u380	I propose that Amendments Nos 18 and 39 be withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 62, failing which I will issue an unfavourable opinion on the first two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u381	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u382	I am against the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u383	I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u384	The aim is to review the renegotiation of the costs of connecting offshore wind farms adopted in 2017. Although it had made a gain of EUR 25 billion out of the EUR 40 billion committed, this had been achieved through the use of public electricity networks (TURPE).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u385	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u386	This amendment has been rejected by the committee, but I personally support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u387	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u388	Unfavorable opinion. This does not represent any financial gain for public finances, but puts risks on projects by increasing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u389	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor in support of Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u390	The aim of this amendment is to make wind energy development subject to respect for the environment, including soil, seabed, landscape and biodiversity. This statement of principles has the merit of recalling that, while wind turbines are known to be clean, they do have negative effects on the environment. Their construction consumes rare earths, the extraction of which is generally outrageous for nature and for the workers who devote themselves to them. When they operate, their blades can cut off migratory birds and disrupt the flight of bats – this is the case with us in the Hauts-de-France. Visually, they upset human ecosystems and can have a very disincentive effect for tourists or for the installation of permanent residents. Their dismantling occurs on a short-term basis – from twenty to twenty-five years – and produces waste that is costly and difficult to process or recycle. Wind turbines are obviously not the most polluting energy, but neither should we fall into the way of believing, by principle and ideology, that they are absolutely without consequences for the environment. I would like to recall that, in both the Oise and the South of the Somme, houses lose between 30 and 40 per cent of their value: and we are talking about people who have spent their entire lives paying for their homes in a very poor region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u391	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u392	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u394	The amendment is satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u395	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 32 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u396	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u397	The aim of this amendment is not to dislike Mr Perea, but to submit the plans for the installation of wind farms on a commune to the prior information not only of the mayor and of the entire members of the municipal council of the commune, but also of those of the neighbouring communes. The aim is to strengthen local ecological democracy and to prevent the mayor of the settlement municipality being the only one informed of these projects and keeping the information for him. Indeed, the establishment of a wind farm can have an ecological and visual impact on neighbouring municipalities, and it is therefore legitimate for them to be also informed. I will take the example of the Hérault, where the Puissalicon wind farm project was deemed abandoned. However, what was not the surprise of the mayors of the neighbouring communes, when they learned, one fine morning, that, far from being abandoned, the project was about to be revived. The information of neighbouring municipalities must therefore be a prerequisite and necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u398	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u399	That demand seems to me to be excessive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u400	I have before me two amendments, Nos 3 and 51, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u401	The aim of this amendment is to reorganise the tax benefits between the municipalities from which the sea wind turbines are visible, by removing the criterion of the number of inhabitants, in view of the evolution of society and the increasing number of shared dwellings on the coast.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u402	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u403	This amendment is intended to make it compulsory to refer the matter to the National Commission for Public Debate (CNDP) before any competition procedure, for the construction and operation of terrestrial wind turbines, as is already the case with offshore wind turbines. An independent administrative authority whose mission is to inform citizens and ensure that their views are taken into account, the CNDP must clearly and transparently present the opportunity, advantages, disadvantages, characteristics and impacts of a project. In particular, it ensures that the information provided by the project manager is accessible, complete and understandable. It may also fund alternative or complementary expertise requested by the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u404	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u405	I would like Mrs Chill's amendment to be withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 3, which also calls for a better distribution of the proceeds of taxation on offshore wind turbines, in favour of the most affected municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u406	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u407	These two amendments will further complicate already very complex regulations and may prevent the development of projects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u408	I have before me two amendments, Nos 16 and 7, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u409	The aim of this amendment is to make the installation of a wind farm in a municipality subject to the prior authorisation of the municipal councils concerned, that of the municipality in whose territory the installation is to take place and that of the neighbouring communes. This is about strengthening local democracy and giving full meaning to the prerogatives of local elected officials, who are, I would remind you, the guarantors of health, health and public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u410	I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u411	As a follow-up to what I mentioned earlier, we ask that the law provide for the assent of the municipal council and not a simple opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u412	I have before me two amendments, Nos 71 and 4, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u413	As soon as the wind turbines are put into operation, the operator shall provide the financial guarantees necessary for the dismantling operations, since the law requires the dismantling of wind turbines at the end of their life. Its sole duty is to present a bank guarantee of €50000 per mast. This amount seems to us to be largely insufficient, and we believe that a provision should be fixed at the outset, which is estimated at around EUR 130000, adapted to the cost of dismantling. That is why this amendment proposes that the amount of the provision should be set at 6.5% of the total price of the plant, in line with what is already being done in some German Länder.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u414	I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u415	The principle of the provision makes it possible to protect against the risk of liquidation of the concessionaire company by the promoter, which would therefore not dismantle the installation, by diverting the contractual obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u416	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u417	My preference is for Amendment No 4, which deals with the cost of construction, since the concept of total cost is more imprecise in terms of scope. I am therefore in favour of this and would like Amendment No 71 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u418	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u419	Financial guarantees already exist. Unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u420	I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u421	The purpose of this amendment is to make it mandatory for wind turbines to be completely dismantled during site rehabilitation, in addition to the treatment of concrete foundations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u422	I have two identical amendments, Nos 12 and 50. Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 12 is being defended. Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u423	The purpose of this amendment is to make the complete dismantling of the concrete base of wind turbines and its replacement by land similar to that of the land at the time of the restoration mandatory when the sites are rehabilitated. Currently, the regulations only provide for the removal of the base by one metre of depth in the agricultural area and two metres in the forest area. These basements sometimes reach about 20 metres in depth, and it is estimated, at the end of 2028, that the amount of reinforced concrete remains in the soil, everywhere in France, at about 7 million tonnes. In addition, will what appears in a contract today be applicable in 30 years' time if the company no longer exists? It will certainly be up to the municipalities to take over the extraction of concrete, for a probably exorbitant cost. And what will we do with the garbage?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u424	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u425	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u426	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u427	Unfavorable opinion. Please, Mrs. Member, don't relay fake news! It is normal for us to have a debate, but on real grounds. This disbandment thing is wrong! Today, the rule is simple: all concrete bases must be completely removed, and this has been done for several months or even several years. The financial guarantees are precisely there so that there is always someone who pays the cost of dismantling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u428	I have before me two amendments, Nos 36 and 35, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor in support of Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u429	The aim of this amendment is to put an end to the colossal payment of public money to the wind industry. The reason for this is simple and affects our energy choices: to illustrate it, we must take the example of the ITER thermonuclear reactor project in Cadarache, in the Bouches du Rhône. Its budget has increased from €5 billion to €19 billion, paid by 35 countries to industrialize nuclear fission technology and develop research. France can be proud to host this project on its soil, because the country has no other expertise in this field, and if it has managed to attract the investments of foreign countries that have made such important financial sacrifices, it is that the outcome is worth it: ITER could produce energy in almost infinite quantities, revolutionizing the world economy, with a generation of almost non-existent pollution, minimal costs, and controlled and limited security risks. In view of the huge sums committed for this project with sustainable opportunities, it seems almost absurd to still want to drink a much less efficient wind industry, and no doubt more polluting. This debate on wind energy is ultimately that of France's technological and scientific choices. Too much to rely on wind energy is a risky decision and a long-term impasse, which risks moving us away from an energy, military and civil independence, dearly acquired and universally recognized: therefore, do not take the risk of losing everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u430	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u431	It aims to establish a moratorium on the installation of new wind turbines in order to define whether the objective of increasing the share of wind energy to about 15% of our electricity production by 2028, provided for by the multiannual energy programming, is truly realistic, ecological and cost-effective. Nothing less certain, since our colleague Julien Aubert calculated the cost of this measure between 72.7 and 90 billion euros, the equivalent spent on our wind farm, for five times less electricity production and a lifespan divided by three. By choosing nuclear power, France has chosen the technological advance, independence and energy efficiency, which all its industry and economy have enjoyed for decades. Even today, this is reinforced by the immense prospects opened up by controlled nuclear fission, which will probably be as important tomorrow as oil did yesterday. It is perhaps, with artificial intelligence, one of the most critical scientific areas of our millennium, in which we must not be late at any cost compared to other countries in the world, such as China and the United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u432	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u433	I am in favour of Amendment No 36. On the other hand, since floating wind does not have the same prospects as wind at sea or wind at land level, I am against Amendment No 35, which does not make a distinction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u434	We come to Article 3, which is the subject of a deleterious amendment No 47, on which I am referred by the Group of the European People's Party to a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alain Perea has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u435	The article plans to ask the Government "for a report on how to strengthen the health component of impact studies..." I will pass to you the very long list, which is contained in the summary of the amendment, of the parameters that are already being studied in the context of the implementation of an wind energy project. We have talked a lot about the elected opposition to these settlements; There are, you mustn't deny it. But there are many others who are very supportive of it. If, like me, you met some of them, the first thing they explained to you was that the procedures were of terrible complexity, that it was a long time, that it took time and cost money, and that in the end, studies on studies were made for study. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Article 3 calls for a report on issues that are already provided for in existing legislation and regulations; That is why we propose to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u436	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u437	Unfavorable opinion. I am not reading the article in the Environmental Code that you are quoting to justify the substantial nature of the treatment of health effects. The description of the content of the impact assessment referred to in this Article shall consist of twenty-one paragraphs. Of these twenty-one paragraphs, five refer to human health. What do they say? Very general things: that the impact statement describes the impact of the project on factors such as population and human health, biodiversity, land, soil, water, air, etc., which is an inventory at the Prévert, and identifies the risks to human health, cultural heritage and the environment. Let me tell you that I do not put human health on the same level as archaeological remains and the protection of weasel. On the other hand, when we look more closely, we see that wind turbines have very harmful effects on some animals – I think cows – and that the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Safety (ANSES) has often started its studies after the installation of wind turbines. I recall the state of scientific knowledge about wind turbines. On noise nuisances, everyone is familiar with the article of the Public Health Code stating that "no particular noise shall, by its duration, repetition or intensity, affect the tranquillity of the neighbourhood or the health of man". The Academy of Medicine has evoked a "windian syndrome" emerging from the visual and sound impact of wind turbines, which consequently damage the state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, that is to say, what is commonly called health. ANSES, for its part, conducted two studies, one in 2006 and the other in 2017; It considers that additional studies should be carried out to assess the possibility of using a mechanism to modulate the perception of audible sound by infrasound at levels comparable to those measured in riparians, as well as to study the effects of modulation of the amplitude of the acoustic signal. In short, it makes a list of the topics on which we do not have sufficient data. In Quebec, the scientific literature developed by an ANSES counterpart agency includes only two effects potentially associated with the level of noise generated by wind turbines: nuisance and sleep disturbance. The head of the ANSES Risk Assessment Unit, who prepared the two 2006 and 2017 reports, testified in the press that large-scale studies were needed. It is now widely accepted that infrasounds have no effect; This is the result of the study commissioned by the Finnish executive in 2020 by its own agency. ANSES also conducted research. Finally, there is the problem of electric currents. Studies conducted under the auspices of GPSE, the permanent group for agricultural electrical safety, have shown the concomitance of the installation and commissioning of wind turbines with the alteration of certain performances and behavioral disorders, without however establishing a causal link. ANSES has looked at the health of cattle in two farms, one of which, the Parc des Quatre-Seigneurs in Loire-Atlantique, is famous: indeed, 400 cows died there in seven years, which coincides exactly with the installation of the wind farm. At one point, the park stopped and the cows stopped dying. There is therefore a causality. The mission of the GPSE confirmed the concomitance and noted that this could be a phenomenon known as "vagrant currents", i.e. electric currents that could have effects on animals depending on the hydrogeological situation of the subsoils. In any event, the difficulties in identifying animal health problems require, in my view, greater emphasis on scientific research. Finally, with respect to electromagnetics, the Quebec agency indicates that no studies exist on the health effects of electromagnetic fields created specifically by wind turbines. You see that, depending on the subject, depending on the nuisance, we have data or not; Some are reassuring, some are incomplete, others are worrying. While ecosystem studies are being systematically conducted, there is a mammal that should not be forgotten, because it lives next to the wind turbines, and it also deserves to strengthen the health component that concerns it. I don't understand why you don't want science to progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u438	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u439	Of course, the question of the health of our citizens is very important; We must not do anything, and we have at our disposal a series of ANSES reports and prescription guides. I do not see what else a report calling for new methods of conducting health studies would bring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u440	At least it would make you feel better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u441	To function properly, the existing rules must be respected, which is the case today. In response to a comment made earlier, ANSES never spoke of the neurological impact of wind turbines on the population. On the other hand, it is known that nuisances can occur, especially because of noise. That is why we announced last Tuesday a sound barrier in the event of exceeding the permitted thresholds, the systematic control of noise on the new installations from 1 January next and the plan of laying up up up to a shutdown decided by the prefect in case of exceeding the thresholds. I prefer that at the request of a report. Similarly, there are sometimes light nuisances, and it is known that light pollution can ultimately have an effect on health. On this point too, we have taken the lead, and we are going to put in place measures to limit the "Christmas garland" effect of wind turbines by orienting the beams to the sky from now on so that the light no longer bothers the residents. In addition, in the new parks, we will put in place a no-night lighting system that will only trigger lights when aircraft pass by. This system will gradually be extended to old parks. Again, I would rather launch this type of measure than make a report. As for the famous Four-Seigneurs wind farm, which has made so much talk about it, we take seriously the problems that have arisen there and we are trying to find solutions to them. Three sets of technical expertise were commissioned on zootechnical, veterinary and electrical components; All were carried out by experts or independent companies selected by the GPSE, whose budget, abounded mainly by the wind farm, was supplemented by a participation of ABO Wind, Enedis and the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing (DREAL) Pays de la Loire. These investigations did not identify the origin(s) of the observed disorders. The CGEDD – General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development – and the CGAER – General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas – which are the respective inspection bodies of the Ministry of the Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, were seized on 9 June 2020 at the request of the Regional Prefect of the Pays de la Loire. The report was made public in February 2021; In particular, it recommends that a temporary shutdown test of the fleet and its connection to the electricity distribution network be conducted over 10 days by defining a precise protocol and a set of indicators. The park operator and the last remaining on-site breeder agreed that this test should be prepared before the summer with a view to its completion in the fall. Meanwhile, the breeder in question, Mr. Potiron, assigned Enedis to court to seek expertise. As a result, the test was postponed. So this is a case to follow. As you can see, when the slightest question arises, we act. That is why I am expressing an opinion in favour of this amendment to delete Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u442	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u443	In order to make this clear to all my colleagues, I would point out that we are going to vote in favour of Mr Perea's amendment. I thank him for his vigilance, because the two deletion amendments he tabled will at least have allowed one thing: to prove that Mr Aubert is not for the rational development of wind turbines, but simply to remove them. Thanks to Mr. Perea, he avoided this being seen too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u444	I put to the vote Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u445	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 66 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 37 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u446	Amendment No 11 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, containing an additional article after Article 3, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u447	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u448	This is a very interesting amendment on network balancing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u449	As all the articles or amendments to the additional article have been rejected or deleted, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u450	The next item is the debate on the bill to create a student restaurant ticket (No 4242, 4494).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u451	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u452	We are meeting at the end of the afternoon to discuss the bill to create a student restaurant ticket. This text, adopted by the Senate on 10 June, provided in its initial drafting for the creation of a restaurant ticket for all students. His examination at first reading in the Senate allowed us to refine the system and clarify its contours, limiting it to students who did not have access to a university restoration structure on their territory. The intense and constructive debates we have had in the Senate continue today, and I am confident that we will work together to find a balance solution that can respond as effectively and as broadly as possible to a problem that we have all identified as essential: the access of students, wherever they are in the country, to a moderate-rate catering offer. In essence, this is the objective that we all pursue: the identification of "white areas" of university restoration and the establishment of solutions adapted to each of the identified territories, allowing the gaps to be resolved. That is why I am pleased that last week the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education adopted an amendment that reinforces and expands this ambition. An amendment that does not limit itself to a tool, but recognizes the plurality of the tools and their complementarity, while recalling the predominant and essential role of the CROUS (regional centres of academic and academic works) in this dynamic. I would like to point out, in order to introduce the debates, that combating food insecurity is one of the Government's priorities. The health crisis has aggravated and highlighted too many situations of fragility. We have created all the mechanisms to respond, so that feeding and having access to three meals a day is not a fighter's journey, but is guaranteed for all. At the beginning of September 2020, we launched the university restoration ticket to one euro for scholarship students. In January, following the announcement by the President of the Republic, the benefit of this scheme was extended to all students – scholarship holders and non-students – and international students for two meals a day. Between January and September, 14.4 million meals were served by the CROUS throughout the country. In this new year, we keep this ticket to one euro for all those who need it – fellows and students in difficulty – while the others benefit from a moderate social rate of 3.30 euros. The introduction of this measure and its continuation are emblematic of the mobilisation of the CROUS and their staff during the crisis. The network of works throughout the territory has shown remarkable responsiveness and adaptability. I would like to commend their unwavering commitment to serving our country's students. They allowed the actual deployment of the ticket to one euro; They set in order to offer new services, such as take-out sales, delivery, installation of distribution trucks and click and collect. Thanks to them, at the height of the crisis, university restaurants were able to open with very demanding sanitary protocols. No other European country has deployed such devices under such conditions. The subject that brings us together today puts the network of works once again at the centre of the discussions. I would like to remind you of this, and I would like to make it clear to you that the CNOUS (Centre national des œuvres universitaires et scolaires) and the CROUS are the major players in the student restoration of our country. The Government will not engage in any steps that could undermine or undermine the fundamental missions they carry out. University restaurants are already present in more than 200 cities in France; These are almost 800 accessible structures in the territory; Of the approximately 2.8 million students in higher education, more than 2.3 million have at least one university restaurant in their immediate environment. Students are 80% plebiscite the catering offer of the CROUS and the activity of university restaurants increases on average by 5% per year outside of crisis. The offer of university restaurants continues to enrich itself to meet the expectations of the students, with complete and balanced meals, vegetarian menus and quality products, in a sustainable development approach. It allows you to share meals in a collective and friendly setting; it promotes social bonding and exchange. We are no longer talking about restoration offers, but about social and human support, indispensable for success and well-being. Yes, the rapporteur, there are still white areas of university restoration and it is the CROUS who, once again, are the actors who identify them and implement the solutions to them. The solution, now mentioned in the committee's text, is to deal with other restoration structures. In this way, CROUS organizes accreditation and agreement policies to enable students to benefit from catering facilities such as administrative, school or hospital canteens, which are subject to the same public service quality requirements. The CROUS have already done so for 183 structures that enjoy approval and resolutely pursue this dynamic. Since the start of the school year, some 10 additional sites have been in the process of being agreed upon. In Creil, Châteaubriant, Dieppe, Draguignan, Guéret, Mende, Morlaix, Saint-Lô, Vienna or Privas, the CROUS offer the benefit of these conventions to students. The CROUS d'Amiens, Normandie, Nice, Limoges, Montpellier, Rennes and Grenoble are committed to this dynamic. I would like to pay tribute to all of them for their work in the service of students who are far from the major academic metropolises. It will enable nursing students, in IUT (University Institute of Technology), in INSPÉ (National Higher Institute of Faculty and Education), who did not have access to a catering service, to benefit from social pricing. It is this dynamic that we must continue. Yes, you are still right, rapporteur, we must offer students more immediate solutions, adapted to the territories, wherever these agreements are starting to apply or about to be applied. But I do not believe that there can be a single and uniform solution which could be found throughout the country. My ministry is that of adaptation, which trusts the actors on the ground, and I would like this way of working not only irritates the higher education system, but also all aspects of student and campus life. The crisis has shown us that we can count on the commitment and complementarity of all actors to find the best solutions for young people, through a comprehensive student approach working with local authorities. That is why the mechanism proposed by the committee seems to me to respond perfectly to the issues at stake. The financial assistance created for students who do not yet have access to the agreed structures will thus be able to take several forms and adapt to the needs of the field and to the solutions already existing. I am thinking of food vouchers that can be used with approved food facilities and services, but also with social and solidarity grocery stores. These vouchers may be requested from the CROUS if the student's institution is located in a white area, defined each year by decree. In order to facilitate the process as much as possible, a dematerialised procedure for applying for and issuing vouchers will be organised. Finally, the definition of approved solutions to meet local needs may be the subject of a tripartite agreement between selected partner institutions and CROUS. As you can see, the proposed transitional solution is very concrete; My teams have already thought about it. Since many institutions have already opted for such arrangements during the crisis, it is now up to us to expand them. Among the amendments tabled, some concerned the fight against the precariousness of students in all its forms. Let me remind you, again, that few governments have made youth and students such a high priority at this time of crisis. From the first confinement and the beginning of 2020, we paid exceptional aid of 200 euros, then 150 euros; we have doubled the emergency aid of the CROUS; we extended the right to the stock exchange according to the impact of the crisis on the curriculum; we have reviewed the social situation in order to adapt the level of the grants; we have created more than 20,000 student jobs and extended doctoral contracts; we have installed, free of charge, distributors of periodic protections. Always, student life and well-being have been at the heart of my ministry's action and it is indeed this global approach, which envisages student life in all its facets, which I wish to pursue with you, far from all-made solutions or postures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I would like once again to express my sincere thanks to the CROUS and their staff, as well as to all the higher education institutions and their teams, whose involvement in the service of students has always been exemplary. I would also like to thank the students who have been heavily vaccinated. This 100-per-cent attendance, with students and institutions so happy, has made it possible and can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u453	[[At 19.05 p.m., Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u454	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u455	Our 2.7 million students benefit from an efficient system of support for their studies. If the cost of a year of study is high, with the system of grants based on social criteria or merit, many students see their main items of expenditure limited. Of these, however, the housing and food budgets are the largest. If France benefits from a large network of CROUS, responsible for university catering and divided into 701 points of sale on the territory, in the form of sit-down restaurants and, increasingly, cafeterias or take-out sales facilities, almost half of the student population declares that they skip meals during a normal week of classes, due to lack of time or facilities to accommodate them. Ladies and gentlemen, who can deny having seen the endless queues of students in front of the food banks, during the crisis of course, and a few days ago? If equal opportunities and the success of all students regardless of the situation of their families are priority objectives, then we agree that we cannot resign ourselves to seeing these students in distress. However, the majority does not seem to be determined to admit that not all students in the Territory are treated in the same way. And that is the very simple purpose of the initiative advocated by the Republican Group, adopted by the Senate, to restore territorial fairness where it is lacking. Unfortunately, in committee, the majority swept away with a backhand...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u456	Not at all! We disagree on the method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u457	... the problem of the approximately 200000 to 500,000 students who do not benefit from a meal service at social rate. The bill adopted by the Senate and the same text that I tabled in the House of Commons are intended to fill the gap in the presence of the CROUS in the territories. All students, because of their status, can access if they have the opportunity to eat at a moderate social rate, but, as you said, minister, you admit: there are indeed white areas. You answer that the problem will find a quick solution with your agreements. Yet, these agreements already exist! Reread the code of education, is it necessary to suggest it to you! Evidence of this is that even though the bill is not passed, 183 establishments are licensed or contracted – as you said yourself. High schools, colleges and canteens already open their doors to students. Minister, have you looked closely at the list of agreements that was communicated to me just a few hours before the committee meeting? There are absolutely none for six of the twenty-six CROUS in France, and not least: Antilles-Guyane, La Réunion, la Corse, Paris, Nice, Toulon, Poitiers, La Rochelle. I can also quote the Limoges Academy, which has only a registered establishment; that of Reims, which numbereth only two; Auvergne's, which has only four. Do you seriously think that within a few weeks, you will be able to fill this deficit? You announced agreements in the Senate in June, but in almost six months there are only ten more, which are not even a reality for students. Have you looked at the geographical distance between restoration sites and academic sites on this list? In Pontarlier, the round trip takes 50 minutes; Mende, 40 minutes and Saumur, one hour. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this solution will not solve the problem of white areas. In addition, despite all the announcements and major communications operations, scholarship students studying in remote locations do not benefit from and will not benefit from the 1 euro meal. Colleagues, you have decided to make this important subject a political subject – it is your choice. Yet, when I tabled my bill in the House as I was working with Senators Pierre-Antoine Levi and Jean Hingray – whom I thank so much for their work – our will was to move forward in a totally transparent manner, without political back-thinks, in a purely positive state of mind, to meet expectations and difficulties clearly identified by all academic actors. Our idea was to create a student restaurant title, based on the simplest model, of those companies offer to employees. This title would allow access to a diversified food supply, in commercial catering as well as in food distribution or similar shops, as long as students are away from the offer of university catering. It is therefore a very practical and easy-to-use device. It is so easy to deploy that some CROUS, under the guidance and will of your ministry, created payment cards for students who needed them to purchase food and basic necessities during the first confinement in just 72 hours. Not to mention, Madam Minister, that you solicited private partners during the crisis to establish food titles for the benefit of several universities. Why would what was possible yesterday at your initiative not be possible today because it is our proposal? During the examination in committee, several arguments were opposed to the creation of the student restaurant ticket. Let me stress a few points right now, although we will certainly come back to them during the discussion. First of all, it is a question of creating a mechanism which is absolutely not in competition with the CROUS and which does not weaken them, since the title-restaurant will only enter into force in the absence of an offer from them. The measure concerns the territories in which the CROUS is not present, i.e. small or medium-sized towns, in order to allow the application of the social tariff. Not only will it therefore be limited, but it will be complementary to what already exists. Secondly, the proposed scheme will cover all students, especially scholarship holders, who do not receive the 1 euro meal, and middle-class students, who do not receive any help. Moreover, contrary to what you said, this is not a blank cheque. The restaurant-title system, which is popular with French employees, ensures that the expenditure will be used for food. Thus, the mechanism that I will propose to you earlier to re-establish – I will defend an amendment to that effect in order to allow for an adoption that is consistent with the Senate – has an eminently practical objective. It is balanced and will not compete in any way with CROUS, since it targets sub-donated areas; it offers a ready-to-use solution based on the CROUS, which will be the issuers thereof, with the support of the major securities designers, who now have engineering to create such a means of payment; the measure is financed, since it is either co-financed by the student up to the amount which he pays in the CROUS, or by the national fund of the ad hoc aids of each CROUS, for students who would not be able to afford it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Colleagues, as I said in committee, after the important work done by the Senate, we have an opportunity to see our parliamentary work complete. By passing the compliant bill, we will have the guarantee that it will be implemented quickly, what our students are waiting for and asking for. Think of them by voting: it is about their well-being and their future!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u458	In the general debate, Mr Julien Ravier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u459	First of all, I wanted to tell you that I am very proud to see the Republican Group defend the bill to create a student restaurant ticket, which is on the agenda. I congratulate our honourable senators on having widely adopted this text by Pierre-Antoine Levi of the Centralist Union Group. I thank our rapporteur, Anne-Laure Blin, who had also tabled the text; It was up to the debate, thanks to its involvement and extensive work. Student precariousness is not new. For a long time, it has been the first obstacle to university success, but it has worsened as a result of the health crisis. In the course of the epidemic, one third of students found that they had financial difficulties; Of these, 56 per cent, food expenditure was the most problematic. In a country that has chosen to make its faculties accessible, while others sell university courses at a gold price, we cannot accept that financial resources remain the main obstacle to university success and equal opportunities. The High Assembly adopted a balanced text, which provided for the creation of a student restaurant ticket. This would provide systematic and optimal food aid to students away from university restaurants. It is therefore a great step that we are proposing; It would benefit all young people, without exception. The student restaurant ticket scheme would remain largely supervised by CROUS, higher education institutions and local and regional authorities. Under no circumstances would it impede the development of university restaurants, their deployment in the territory, or even the convention, which must continue. All these arrangements must co-exist because the agreement will not be immediate and will not cover the entire territory. The student restaurant ticket is a quick and immediate response, pending the establishment of a university restaurant or convention. However, the text of the Senate was completely amended in committee. It is now too blurred to be truly effective. The only amendment of the majority presented at the sitting is an illustration of this, since it tends to replace the initial title "create a student restaurant ticket" with "encourage access for all students to a moderate-rate restaurant offer". You are certainly proposing financial assistance, and this intention is obviously commendable, but there is nothing to specify the form of the measure or how it is to be implemented, which ultimately leaves the Government free to choose the mechanism. During the committee review, we found that your response to student food insecurity is just to introduce conventioning, despite its flaws. But there is no need to codify the arrangement already in place. This addition to the law is unnecessary: it is a pretext for not passing the bill as it came out of the Senate, so not to offer an immediate solution to precarious students in unconventional white areas. Finally, the majority's amendments are super-fetative and have only one objective: to avoid a compliant vote which would result in a social advance for precarious students, obtained by the opposition and not by the majority. You thus delay the adoption and entry into force of the provisions; Meanwhile, students continue to suffer from precarious conditions. I regret that your political posture is that of a closed majority. By contravening all our proposals, you want to defeat the parliamentary niche of the Republican Group. He was seen this morning during the consideration of the bill for persons with disabilities, by Damien Abad and Aurélien Pradié.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u460	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u461	However, student insecurity and disability are priority topics, which must not give rise to any low political blow. Students are the first to challenge the amendments made to the commission. Let me read you an excerpt from a message that we have received, among many others: "I am a student and I would like to express my great disappointment at the fact that the [law] proposal was completely changed and distorted by the majority when it was examined in committee. "It has become necessary to put in place a system that allows us to reduce our food spending, while giving us the opportunity to shop at a lower cost. "This social progress will allow us to regain our dignity, and to [all of us] restore at a student-priced price, especially when we are away from university restaurants. Without this mechanism, we will have nothing and the situation will not change. » The words of these students should encourage us to adopt unanimously the amendments advocated by Anne-Laure Blin, in order to return to the balanced drafting of the Senate and to obtain a consistent vote, synonymous with the speedy entry into force of the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Whatever our political orientations, there is no disagreement to have. Our students are our future. We cannot resolve to let them suffer from hunger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u462	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u463	On behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I would like to thank our colleagues in the Republicans Group, who are taking advantage of the legislative time allocated to them to put on the agenda a text whose objective is not the least, since it aims to improve the living conditions of students. The bill before us is thus devoted to student restoration, which requires ensuring access to a high-quality, low-cost offer. We know that, even today, many of our students are faced with precariousness and are therefore struggling to feed themselves properly and sufficiently. The health crisis of the covid-19 revealed a little more this fact, aggravating the situation of the most economically fragile students. With confinement, they often lost their jobs and were deprived of essential income. The closure of university restaurants has also given students the opportunity to eat at a lower cost. In order to combat this precarious situation, the Government has not hesitated to multiply the support mechanisms: meals at 1 euro for the fellows first, then for all the students, the installation of food trucks, the system of click and collect and the development of the food baskets were all indispensable supports. In the Senate, in its original form, the bill intended to create a restaurant title accessible to all students. It would have been used to pay for all or part of a meal, in a restaurant or with a contracted organization. Such a measure would have far-reaching implications for public finances as well as its application, but senators have adapted the scheme by targeting students furthest from university restoration structures. The student restaurant ticket would therefore be a complement to the offer of university catering, allowing to improve the territorial mesh. If we are aware that the student restoration network suffers from real shortcomings, the mechanism provided for in the text tabled in the House has certain limitations. On the one hand, the creation of a restaurant ticket and its possible generalisation would put a heavy burden on public finances. On the other hand, if the amendments made by the Senate allow for a targeting of the scheme, they create the risk that students who have access to the CROUS and who will be excluded from the offer of the title-restaurant will eventually seek an extension of the measure for greater fairness. Finally, the creation of such a system would, above all, weaken and compete very frontally with the CROUS network, even though it has demonstrated throughout the crisis its ability to transfer, adapting its support to students and implementing government measures, within a particularly limited period of time. I have objectively seen this in my constituency, with the work that the CROUS has done at the University of Paris-Nanterre. In the course of the discussions in committee, our group has therefore taken a position in favour of a system which is likely to deepen and improve the existing one. That is why we have proposed, along with our colleagues from the La République en marche and Act together, to strengthen the public service offer, by improving the territorial coverage of catering managed or approved by the CROUS. In this way, the high schools, but also the colleges, the centres of resources, expertise and sports performance, or the medical-social institutions, will have the possibility, tomorrow, to enter into agreements with the CROUS, in order to offer a quality catering offer, at low cost. In order not to leave no one behind, we also wanted financial aid to be granted, under conditions laid down by a decree in the Council of State, to students who still do not have access, within their territory, to one of the university catering services operated or approved by the CROUS. Finally, the examination in committee allowed the adoption of an amendment providing for the submission of an annual report to Parliament, concerning the access of students to a moderate-rate catering offer. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, our group sees this bill as an opportunity to reaffirm its support and commitment to the CROUS, which were extremely resilient and versatile during the health crisis. Thus, if the mechanism provided for in Article 1 is maintained as it results from the text of the committee, the Movement Démocrate (MoDem) and Related Democrats Group will give its full support to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u464	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u465	We are looking at the bill to create a student restaurant ticket, similar to the employee restaurant title. Adopted at first reading in the Senate, it aims to allow students to reduce their food expenditures, to provide them with a meal at a social rate, to create a virtuous circle with local food producers. I would point out that the original version of the text concerned all students, regardless of their place of study and training. As adopted by the Senate, it targets those who are far from university restoration structures, so as not to unbalance the functioning of the CROUS. While the original objective of the bill is commendable, it is likely that this text will exacerbate the financial difficulties of the CROUS and weaken them in their restoration mission, which accounts for 30% of their turnover, which would also make it difficult for other missions, such as housing, social assistance and culture. The use of this ticket in private fast food could reinforce certain consumption habits of students, which are not the most healthy, while the CROUS advocate a more balanced diet. Such a practice also poses a threat to the socialization and identification of students in difficulty or drop-out. We say again, we must avoid individualism, after almost two years of video conferencing. Finally, we remain hungry about the budgetary implications of such a mechanism. A lot of questions still arise. Who's funding? What are the entry conditions and at what rate? Will the supplement be paid by the State or by the local authorities? Lack of clarity raises concerns about further burdening communities. Let us not forget that the cost of the measure is estimated at more than EUR 1 billion, while the annual budget allocation of the CROUS amounts to EUR 367 million by 2021, excluding additional appropriations from the recovery plan. On the other hand, only the explanatory statement of the text tabled in the Senate evokes a value of the restaurant ticket equal to 6,60 euros, with a support for students up to 3,30 euros, a remainder that remains important for the most precarious. Finally, during the discussion in committee, the majority had amendments adopted to distort the original title of the text. Rewritten, Article 1 now provides that an agreement has been entered into by the CROUS or "by bodies, under public or private law, contracted", in territories that do not have an offer of university restoration, and offers "financial assistance to students who do not have access to a university restoration structure". The Socialist and related groups draw several red lines: the price of a meal must be the same as that proposed by the CROUS, it is not simply a question of providing financial aid whose contours are not known; agreements must be framed from the outset, signed with educational institutions or with public institutions, not with enterprises and with business-to-business restaurants; CROUS must be accompanied by local and regional authorities, who must themselves be able to benefit from more funding, in order to avoid the burden being borne solely by CROUS; Agreements should not be an excuse to hinder the development of the CROUS in the territories which are deprived of them. Financial inadmissibility was opposed to one of the amendments tabled by the Socialist and Related Group, which is surprising, whereas the principle of new aid was adopted last week. Our group is in favour of any measure to improve the lives of students, and recalls that it has proposed the sustainability of the 1 euro meal, as well as the creation of a minimum youth. Colleagues, let us not forget that the living and studying conditions of students have deteriorated considerably with the pandemic and that the problems are not limited to food. Some still sleep in their cars, others no longer have jobs. The emergency requires them to receive real financial assistance to live, or simply to survive. Perhaps the 2022 finance bill will give us satisfaction, at least we wish. For all these reasons, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u466	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u467	This afternoon we are considering a bill to create a student restaurant ticket, tabled by our colleague senator from the Union Centriste group, Pierre-Antoine Levi, whose rapporteur in the National Assembly is our colleague Anne-Laure Blin. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome the opportunity given to us by the Group of the European People's Party to debate, in this academic year, a text on student living conditions. The creation of a student restaurant ticket is not a new idea. It has been defended for several years by the UN, but without consensus within the student unions, and has the merit of raising a real debate on the territorial mesh of the CROUS. First of all, I want to remind you of the essentials. Our university catering system has more than 800 points of sale managed by the regional centres of academic and academic works, the CROUS. This model, unique in Europe, allows students to access a balanced and sustainable diet, at a social rate. It is widely supported by those who benefit from it, as 80% of students recommend it. As you said, Madam rapporteur, the students were particularly struck by the economic and social consequences of the health crisis. According to the Observatoire national de la vie étudiant, a third of them reported having encountered financial difficulties during the first confinement. In response to this precarious situation, the Government, with the support of the CROUS, set up a one-euro meal in university restaurants in September 2020, before extending the scheme to all students, whether scholarship-holders or not, on 25 January. Nearly 15 million meals at 1 euro were served by the CROUS between January and August 2021. I want to pay tribute here to the mobilization of all their staff, exemplary during the crisis: they have spared no effort to cope with the urgency and to maintain the quality of the offer, by developing new services, such as the sale to take away or food truck catering, forgive me this anglicism. We were able to count on their adaptability and their sense of public service to accompany students in this difficult period. I would also like to point out that the territorial grid of the CROUS is particularly dense. Virtually all university students have access to a university restaurant, sometimes queued for a long time. Of the 2.8 million students in higher education, 2.6 million have access to a CROUS structure in their immediate environment. However, some territories still lack a university restaurant. Most of the time, the CROUS develop agreements with other structures, such as school canteens or administrative canteens, to allow students to benefit from quality restoration at lower cost. I am also pleased, following the announcement made by the Minister, that ten new sites will be approved by the CROUS on January 1st. However, special situations persist, in which coverage of the university catering service is not ensured. Contrary to a well-known idea, they do not concern only rural areas. Fighting against these white areas and ensuring fair treatment among students, regardless of their place of study, is the objective of the bill we are considering. The text presented in committee provided for the creation of a restaurant ticket for students away from university catering facilities. If we fully share the objective pursued, our group is at the origin of an amendment, defended with the other groups of the majority and adopted by the committee, designed not to limit the proposed arrangement to the restaurant ticket alone. Indeed, there is a panel of other solutions, which have proved their worth on the ground. I am thinking in particular of vouchers or acquisition cards for restoration, but also of financial aids paid directly to students. Because there are no second-rate students, we also proposed to include in the marble of the law that, "in each territory, students can benefit from a moderate-rate restaurant offer near their place of study." [[Ms. Nicole Dubré-Chirat applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply believe that it is through the flexibility and diversity of the tools available to the CROUS that we will succeed in achieving the objective of the bill, that is, equal treatment for all students, regardless of their place of study. As you will have understood, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal for a law on social justice, in its version adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u468	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u469	I would like to thank you, the rapporteur, and our colleague Senator Pierre-Antoine Levi, for allowing us to discuss the very important subject of student nutrition. I also reiterate my support for my colleague Anne-Laure Blin, who has been particularly active on this issue, and I welcome her. The health crisis and confinements were an electroshock for all those who saw the images of these young people standing in front of the food banks. This situation must challenge us as to the mechanisms put in place by the state and by academic actors to enable our students to eat properly at an affordable price. The importance of CROUS and their work must of course be recognized so that the offer of university restoration can meet the expectations of the students. For I believe, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we must listen to them and take their needs into account. Yes, our students are attached to their university restaurants. And because of this, these are friendly places, where young people are able to meet, exchange or simply breathe a little during a busy day. However, behind this angelic observation, it is also necessary to realize that many students have less and less time to devote to their meals. Recent surveys have shown that the opening hours of university restaurants, waiting times, do not satisfy nearly one in four students. Yet, the 750 university restaurants throughout the country are at the heart of campuses, and students don't need to go far to eat. This is why, given the diversity of expectations, the CROUS have been able to adapt, to the point that fast food now accounts for 45% of the offer they offer: I invite you to take an example of this ability to question the CROUS, to meet the needs of the students. Indeed, amending the framework of the bill, our colleague rapporteur in the Senate, Jean Hingray, has changed the main question posed by this text: is France capable of providing an equal service of catering to all its students? The answer is simple: no. No, not all French students are housed in the same school, because they do not all have access to a university restaurant near their study site. There are white areas, where students have to take care of themselves to eat: when we ask this, we have to provide answers. In keeping with what you had already announced in the Senate, the minister, the majority members of the House of Commons changed the text and replaced the restaurant ticket scheme with a policy of agreement and approval with third-party restaurants. This option, which allows a student to have access to an institution that meets the same requirements as university restaurants, cannot be opposed. But can you guarantee us that, as with a university restaurant, all the conventions that will be signed will allow a student in the white zone to have access to a restaurant offer sufficiently close and fast allowing him to eat there every day? Of course not. Moreover, the system voted by the majority in committee provides that in case of impossibility of access to a restaurant U, financial assistance will be provided for the student. But what will this help take? Under what conditions will it apply? Will a student with an institution in his or her area be able to benefit from it? All this is very blurry. And when it's blurred, it's blurred. In truth, you don't need a law to sign conventions with administrative or school restaurants since you already do. You're just trying to save time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u470	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u471	The restaurant ticket scheme proposed by the rapporteur has the merit of simplicity and clarity. In addition, if we pass this bill in a language identical to that of the Senate, the financial assistance you would like to put in place would be directly applicable in the form of a restaurant ticket. Today, 65% of students regularly skip a meal and 12% do not make extra meals for economic reasons. It is our duty not to leave these young people in an impasse for practical or financial reasons, while this efficient solution of the restaurant ticket can be put in place quickly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The independent UDI group will support the re-establishment of the bill in its Senate drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u472	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1006.u473	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the bill to create a student restaurant ticket; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to relocate and create a French industry for the production and recycling of health protection masks; Discussion of the proposal for a law to allow the transfer of the rights entered in the personal training account between account holders; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the economic and social support of parents of children with severe pathology during and after the illness. The meeting is adjourned.
