ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the debate on Europe, which was decided by the Conference of Presidents on 2 February. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly wishes to pay particular attention to European news in general and to Brexit in particular. For example, on 16 February last, the first nine questions to the Government, one per group, dealt with European issues. In addition, the committees, within their respective areas of competence, have conducted hearings on Brexit in recent weeks and this work has been published in advance of our debate. I have no doubt that today's exchanges will also contribute to informing the House and our fellow citizens about these essential European issues. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear the representatives of the committees, the speakers of the groups, and the Government, and then move on to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon, representative of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u2	The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has conducted two ministerial hearings to identify the implications of Brexit for research and higher education on the one hand and for culture on the other. At its hearing on 27 January, Ms Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, stressed that the impact of Brexit was not the same for Europe's higher education and for Europe's research. The United Kingdom has chosen to continue its participation in the major European research programmes. The agreement signed on 24 December sets out the modalities for its financial participation in the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation and its access to grants within the framework of the European Innovation Council – CIS. As far as Horizon Europe is concerned, the agreement paves the way for the participation of UK researchers and the UK has committed to finance between EUR 10 and 20 billion over the duration of the programme. The mobility of researchers should not be a problem for current or future programmes. The United Kingdom is now in the same position as Switzerland or Sweden, which contribute to the financing of research programmes and recover what they have invested through partnerships. The only significant change is that French researchers wishing to settle in the United Kingdom will be subject to the points system which now governs the country's migration policy and will have to demonstrate a minimum income. On the other hand, the consequences are quite different in higher education, as the UK chose to leave Erasmus+ and create its own international mobility programme, the Alan Turing programme. This decision, which put an end to more than thirty years of cooperation, has profoundly shaken the French university community as the UK was until 2018 the second French destination for Erasmus mobility. If solutions are to be found to enable the current beneficiaries of the programme to complete their stay, it is likely that financial obstacles will discourage many students from crossing the Channel in the future. Indeed, in addition to the cost of the visa, of about 400 euros, and the fees of registration without common measure with those practised in France – more than 10000 euros per year on average – the United Kingdom will require an annual minimum income of 28500 euros for subsistence. An intergovernmental negotiation at European level will begin on these various points, but the minister has not told us that it would be difficult. On the other hand, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales want to remain within the framework of Erasmus+. All European ministers insist that this be so, so that these destinations remain accessible to our students. I'm going to the cultural sector. At its hearing on 18 February, the Minister of Culture, Roselyne Bachelot, pointed out that in the United Kingdom, the cultural issue was almost never addressed in the debate on Brexit. However, if it is a sector particularly marked by the consequences of this decision, it is indeed the British cultural sector at a time when it is experiencing a real tragedy with the pandemic crisis. The agreement signed on 24 December last preserves European cultural sovereignty and protects our regulatory models, as well as the diversity and rights of our cultural actors in the face of digital giants. However, the advantages of the internal market and European solidarity are disappearing. This applies to the freedom of movement of artists and cultural professionals, now subject to national visa and work authorisation rules, as well as to the mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications. For the cultural sector, this situation has very important consequences, be it architects, heritage restorers, dance teachers or lecturers. It should be added that British nationals will no longer benefit from certain preferential tariff conditions for access to European cultural institutions, such as free admission to our national museums for young people under 26 years of age. However, the agreement does not mark the end of any cultural relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The latter may continue to benefit from certain European funding programmes as an associated third country, such as the Horizon Europe research programme, or, if it so wishes, from the Creative Europe programme. This will allow certain rules to continue to apply, particularly in the area of social security, in order to facilitate the mobility of artists and to avoid additional costs and administrative difficulties. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Minister of Culture assured us that she was determined to continue the dialogue in order to facilitate the movement of artists and creators on both sides of the Channel, because Brexit cannot rhyme back on itself. A new relationship between the Union and the United Kingdom must now be built with respect for each other's sovereignty and cultures. This will be one of the challenges of the French Presidency of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u3	Mrs Annaig Le Meur, representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u4	Europe is the fruit of a long work, which began with a necessary reconstruction in the aftermath of a war that caused chaos in our territories. It is an economic and political plan defended by visionaries and intended to provide us with an area of peace and protection. Twenty-seven countries are working to protect and liberate our Europe from the challenges of today and tomorrow. Climate challenge, energy challenge, migration challenge, security challenge, health challenge, economic challenge, defence of our common values, flow management, issues are diverse and of importance. This year we lived Brexit and this willingness of a friendly country to leave Europe leaves us with the feeling of a loser-loser. For the Member of Parliament for Finistère I am, it's like seeing cousins get away from the family. [[Smiles and exclamations on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Here I would like to highlight a sector that is close to my heart, fisheries, and a territory that is mine, but also yours, Mr. Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Brittany.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u5	Following bitter negotiations, an agreement was finally reached with the United Kingdom to preserve the activity of French and European fishermen in British waters. We can certainly welcome the difficult negotiating work that has been carried out to reach an agreement that really takes account of the situation of the French and European fishermen in the interests of the nation, or rather, I should say, of the nations. These negotiations make me optimistic about the future of Europe, which has been able to show union, because, as I recall, only eight Member States are involved in fishing in British waters and no division has emerged between them. Some of you may wonder why so much energy has been mobilised to defend a sector that only amounts to €650 million against the UK's 300 billion imports from the European Union. The answer is simple: for Europe there are no small challenges. Our partners have mobilized to preserve some of our identity, our economy, our heritage. Thanks to them! But let us reason beyond the fishing sector. We often say that Finistère, the geographical gateway to the European Union, is a symbol. It is also a department driven by the dynamism of an agricultural and agri-food sector that innovates, nurtured by the strong ambition of sectors that advance, evolve and adapt. For example, between 2014 and 2020, nearly EUR 1 billion of European funds were invested in Brittany to support the economic development and attractiveness of the territories, not to mention the strong support from the European Fund for Strategic Investments of the Juncker Plan for financing infrastructure and innovation projects, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – and mid-sized enterprises – ETI. I have chosen to illustrate my point by taking the focus of Brittany, but I am sure that through each of your territories you could, ladies and gentlemen, show how lucky we are to be able to count on a strong European Union capable of collective mobilisation in the general interest. The crisis we are going through bears witness to its capacity for consultation and to the weight of collective action. On 11 February, the European Council adopted the Regulation establishing the Facility for Recovery and Resilience – FRR. With more than €672 billion, it is at the heart of the European Union's extraordinary recovery effort, a historic mobilisation to help Member States cope with the economic and social consequences of the covid -19 pandemic. Europe is this big machine that enters the depths of our territories, into our daily lives. In Finistère and elsewhere, its action is sometimes not perceived, but it is there to secure, protect and innovate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u6	That's it! Do you think it's at the public hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u7	Europe is also a united entity built as a team, which adapts to remain an economic power that weighs heavily on international trade. For all these reasons, we must, like its founders, remain visionaries...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u8	But what world do they live in?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u9	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... to preserve this area of peace and protection together, at twenty-seven from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u10	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u11	The court is full, the court is full of our European ambitions. President Juncker used to say that in Europe we all know what we want but we don't know how to do it. It's all in the way. Let us look at the objectives, objectives which the President of the Republic calls on public opinion to formalise through the conference on the future of Europe, and see how full the court of our desires is. We need to succeed in energy adaptation and decarbonisation, we need to relaunch migration policy, investment and innovation policy, the defence industry, we need to relaunch internal cohesion policy, we need to relaunch citizenship policy and the fight for equality between women and men, we need to revive social cohesion and mobility, in short, we need to do everything we can if we are to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u13	In the face of this enormous specification, we can see how fragile the instruments we have. I will distinguish three main weaknesses. The first is, it must be acknowledged, a relative lack of cohesion between the Member States. Some, particularly at the continental heart of the European Union, have reaffirmed their unity. Their willingness to act together was the basis of the Franco-German contingency plan which foreshadowed the European Union's contingency plan put into music by the Commission. We have seen at work the cohesion between France, Germany and also the countries of southern Europe, in particular Italy, Spain and Portugal. But, on the periphery, many states drag their feet, do not want to go any further, or simply maintain a policy that I would call liberal-sovereignist repugnant to collective disciplines. There is therefore a very important divide that we can only overcome by developing enhanced cooperation. The second weakness, of course, is institutional weakness. Community democracy, like any democracy, is based on democracy, the popular origin of decision-making, and on kratos, its effectiveness. It must be noted, however, that the rule of unanimity paralyses. Finally, the third weakness is the lack of budgetary resources. How, Minister, can we bring these multi-faceted, necessary, demanding and legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens into line with the means? We expect the Government, from the perspective of the French presidency of the European Union, to focus on a priority object of which we hope it will be a lever, the lever of Archimedes that would allow us, if not to raise the world, at least to raise Europe. The priority that we believe should be chosen – the Portuguese Presidency has taken steps in this direction – within the framework of the European Union's own resources is the introduction of the financial transaction tax. Do you intend to make this a priority? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to ask you three questions: do you intend to achieve, under the French Presidency, the creation of a tax on financial transactions? Do you intend to ignore the opposition of those who do not want a tax, by introducing enhanced cooperation from voluntary countries and how many Member States do you think are likely to join it? Can you imagine, finally, a possible and desirable mechanism to relieve the States, which are involved in this enhanced cooperation, of the amount of the proceeds of the tax due to competition for the repayment of the debts subscribed under the contingency plan? If France is able to make these three points prevail, it will give Europe a tremendous lever, thus meeting the aspirations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u14	It can be seen that you were president of the young Gaullists...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u15	Mrs Carole Grandjean, representative of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u16	"We have used all the strength of the twenty-seven to give all twenty-seven a chance for the future. It was with these words that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, concluded, on 16 September 2020, the presentation of her vision for a stronger Europe emerging from the pandemic. In the wake of the crisis of the covid-19 which it is facing in a united way, but also of the Brexit and the recovery plan, Europe has marked a new stage in its social and economic construction. Since the adoption in 2017 of the European Pillar of Social Rights, Europe has been committed to a common programme: the reconciliation of economic and social interests, the development of skills and the ease of movement, work and living within this common market. The European Foundation consists of 20 shared principles, which are brought together in broad areas such as equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and corporate social responsibility. Together, our common ambition is to meet the challenges of tomorrow, such as globalisation, the ageing of our populations, digitisation, enhanced mobility and environmental transition. It is now up to us to analyse the causes, impacts and challenges for Europe and our fellow citizens of the European earthquake of Brexit. While the United Kingdom applied the rules for the coordination of social security systems with France, as with other European Union states, new arrangements had to be made. What impact will this have on retirement pensions, disability, death, accidents at work, occupational diseases? What health coverage is provided for British residents of the European Union or, conversely, for EU citizens living in the United Kingdom? What social protection for posted workers abroad? On 24 December 2020, the European Union and the United Kingdom reached an agreement on trade and cooperation. Pending its ratification by the European Parliament in the course of 2021, it entered into force. In the area of social security, the agreement aims to guarantee a number of rights for EU citizens and British nationals. The free movement of Europeans ended on 1 January 2021, the European health insurance card is no longer valid and national driving licences are no longer recognised. Europeans wishing to work in the United Kingdom must now obtain a work visa, subject to an offer of employment and a proposal for an annual minimum wage equivalent to around 30000 euros. The work carried out bears the marks of a concerted and orderly exit whose challenge now lies in the effective control and democratic monitoring of the provisions that have entered into force. I know the vigilance of our fellow Members of the European Parliament in this matter and the House will have to take its full part in it. At European level, current events involve an objective analysis of the Union's vaccination strategy – which has been pointed out by many commentators who are in a hurry to find those responsible for what they wrongly consider a failure; Now, I say it straight away, it's a misunderstood subject. Initially, several major European countries, including France, Germany and Italy, had started negotiations with vaccine producers and signed initial agreements before transmitting the torch to the European Commission in order to make solidarity between Member States effective. They have forced the Commission, in its negotiating strategy, to control prices. And the bet was held: Europe pays its vaccines 25% cheaper than the United States. Member countries have also obtained that industrialists are held accountable for vaccine-related problems, while other countries seem to have agreed to guarantee manufacturers against any risk of product defects. Some, however, have decided to transfer the health data of their population. This has not been the choice of the European Union, and I welcome it. In addition, Europe is participating in the international effort to provide immunization coverage, thanks to its industry which exports part of its production. Of course, this does not make the headlines of the newspapers and yet it does the honor of France and Europe, of our German partners in particular. By this strong act, Europe says no to vaccination nationalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u17	Listen to things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the European vaccination strategy, there is of course an industrial amplification to be defended and it is set in motion. But there was first a solidarity response that should be stressed and welcomed. International solidarity is also the responsibility of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u19	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u20	The year 2020 illustrated the fact that strategic competition and military competition are now important for Europe. American unilateralism, the Russian hybrid wars, Turkish adventurism and Chinese expansionism have struck the brink of an era, that of the promises of peace of the 1990s, already well compromised by Islamist terrorism. Europe must learn from this new geostrategic environment. To remain an actor of peace, this noble ambition that motivated its creation, the European Union must now assert itself as a power. Indeed, there is a risk – we must be aware of this – of the downgrading of France and Europe. And to deal with it, European defence cooperation appears to be the most effective response, supplemented if necessary by bilateral, Franco-German or Franco-British cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u21	The Europe of war, it's a find!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u22	In autumn 2017, the Strategic Review of Defence and National Security made it clear and unprecedented that France no longer intended to develop on its own certain capabilities essential to its armed forces, but would now design them within a European framework. In December of the same year, under the impetus of France and Germany, permanent structured European cooperation in the field of defence began, involving 25 Member States. Forty-five collaborative projects have been endorsed under this framework and are eligible for funding from the European Defence Fund, whose budget has been set at EUR 7 billion for the period 2021-2027, i.e. one sixth of the defence research and development budget of the Member States and the United Kingdom. Another major event, at the initiative of the President of the Republic, several European states, including Denmark and the United Kingdom, joined the European intervention initiative in June 2018, which provides a particularly flexible framework for countries wishing to develop a common strategic culture. These initiatives are welcome, but the difficulties are growing. As our colleagues Natalia Pouzyreff and Michèle Tabarot pointed out in the conclusions of the report of the fact-finding mission on permanent structured cooperation, not all the commitments made by the Member States are fulfilled. In addition, the large number of projects adopted poses a risk of dilution on this embryo of European policy, while NATO – the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation – remains the only horizon of defence policy in many states, as does the purchase of American equipment for their equipment policy. In the area of Franco-German capacity cooperation, the ongoing projects – notably the tank and the aircraft of the future – constitute structural programmes for both the armies and the industrial defence sectors. The negotiations on the next steps of these programmes have not yet been concluded and aim to achieve a fair balance between the French and German industrial interests, while ensuring the logic of the "best athlete" who is the only one able to ensure, over time, the mastery of costs and deadlines. An agreement beneficial to the various parties, even though it is complex in nature and must be approached without naivety, seems on track. Finally, Brexit raises uncertainty about the future of Franco-British defence cooperation. As our colleagues Jacques Marilossian and Charles de la Verpillière pointed out in their report on the results of the Lancaster House agreements, the tenth anniversary of which was celebrated last November, yet the stakes are high. Both countries account for 60% of European defence expenditure and 80% of research and development expenditure in this area. The United Kingdom is the only other European country to have both the capacity and the will to conduct military operations, including combat operations, where their interests so require, where Europe's presence is expected, desired and sustained. We cannot do without this ally, which has just announced a further increase in its defence budget of EUR 18 billion over four years. Europe therefore remains a political struggle, which cannot be pushed back to an ever more distant horizon. I look forward to the holding of a new Franco-British summit that will draw the future of the Lancaster House agreements. But we need to do more. The adoption of a European strategic compass, scheduled for the first half of 2022 during the French Presidency, will be an opportunity for a common threat analysis, which will help to define the strategic guidelines, to determine the instruments and capabilities needed by the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the meantime, France must continue to play a leading role in maintaining the trajectory defined by the military programming law – LPM – and in preparing a future programming law as ambitious as the current one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u23	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u24	First of all, I would like to welcome the holding of this debate on Europe, in the current context and a few months before the French presidency of the European Union, which will begin in January 2022. Europe, like France, has made a clear and assured commitment to emerge from this health, economic and social crisis through a green transition and low-carbon investments, in order to build a more sustainable and resilient Europe. Environmental issues are therefore one of the main priorities of the European Union's agenda, many of which fall directly within the competence of the Assembly's committees: implementation of the Green Pact for Europe, draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, reform of the common agricultural policy – CAP –, green taxonomy or revision of the guidelines on pesticides... as many challenges as the European Union will have to face in the coming months and years. Europe obviously has a major role to play in accelerating the ecological and climate transition; the President of the European Commission seems convinced of this need, even though this movement still encounters resistance on the part of some Member States. The deployment of the European Green Deal – the Green Pact for Europe – continues with the creation or strengthening of more than fifty European legislations by the end of 2022. Europe has never given so much impetus to the ecological and climate transition. France is among the leaders of climate action in Europe, actively contributing to a true integration of environmental issues into EU policies. The action taken at European level since 2017 has enabled him to win several battles, such as the creation of the "climate bank". The goal of climate neutrality in 2050, initially defended by France and two Member States, has become the new European objective. The recovery plans of the European Union and France, which plan to allocate EUR 30 billion to green recovery by promoting low-carbon investments, are even ranked second and third most favourable climate plans in the latest report of the United Nations Environment Programme. [["Very good! »on several benches of the Dem group]] This position as a leader on the European and international scene derives its legitimacy from the very ambitious commitments made by France on its own territory. With the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, which will be discussed in the Assembly from 8 March, France will once again confirm its leading role in the fight against climate change. This text, based on the proposals of the Citizens' Climate Convention, is an essential part of the overall action we have been taking since 2017 to accelerate the ecological transition and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. France will thus be the first European state to prohibit the rental of "thermal colanders" by 2028, the only one to go so far in terms of environmental signage,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u25	Display! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u26	... one of the only ones to remove short-haul flights when an alternative train exists, and the only one to regulate advertising for the most polluting products. Some of the measures in the bill are even welcomed by the German Greens, who are waiting for their country to draw on them. This unprecedented initiative to engage citizens on climate issues could even be replicated globally in the context of COP 26 – the UN Climate Change Conference – which is scheduled to take place in Glasgow in November 2021, the next crucial step in realizing the commitments made under the Paris Agreement. While environmental and climate policies involve building consensus with our citizens, they also involve, and above all, building consensus at European and international level. The President of the Republic has thus wished to submit certain proposals of the Citizens' Convention where they will have even more impact, that is at European level. We know that environmental challenges arise on a scale that goes beyond national territories and requires a collective and coordinated response. The French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022 will make it possible to go further on several fundamental issues. France will be on the front line to defend the establishment of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, which will enable us to act effectively on our carbon footprint, without favouring distortions of competition within the Union. France will be on all fronts of the transition to respond to the climate emergency and to combat imported deforestation, but also to fight against trade agreements that do not meet our environmental standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] That is what we will do through the climate and resilience bill, which will enable us to implement a just, ambitious and acceptable transition for all of our citizens. That is our goal, and that will be our collective challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u29	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, representative of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u30	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Mr Eric Woerth, chairman of the Committee on Finance, who is retained elsewhere. In line with the wishes of the Conference of Presidents, the Committee on Finance devoted two hearings to the consequences of Brexit at the beginning of the year. The first was organised with the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs. We received Mr Michel Barnier, responsible for the negotiation of the British withdrawal from the European Union – this was indeed an opportunity to congratulate him on the conclusion of an agreement in a delicate context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u31	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u32	The second allowed us to hear from Olivier Dussopt, Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, on the budgetary and financial consequences of Brexit. These hearings highlighted several complex issues raised by the new relationship with the United Kingdom. The most concrete example is the transport of goods: the re-establishment of customs formalities leads to friction at the borders between the United Kingdom and the European Union. We can welcome the introduction, at the French border, of a computer system called the "smart border", which selects, prior to crossing the border, vehicles to report to customs for further examination, but the United Kingdom is, for its part, less well prepared. Olivier Dussopt recalled that there had been shortcomings at the British border, and the entry into force of customs formalities on the British side had been postponed until 1 July 2021. So we are not immune from bad surprises. Similarly, if the absence of customs duties on products transiting between our two countries is essential not to penalise our companies, let us be aware that French importing and exporting companies will face difficulties linked to the compulsory completion of new administrative formalities. We must be very vigilant about the rules that the United Kingdom will adopt: the principle of non-regression must be strictly observed; There is no question of allowing a deregulated country, at the gates of Europe, to flood our territory with goods without customs duties. I will not go back to agreements in other areas, such as agriculture or the movement of people. However, let me welcome the fisheries agreement, which provides for a 25% reduction in value of European catches in British waters by 2026. It preserves the interests of European fishermen, and its revision will have to be subject to special vigilance. However, not everything is done. For example, financial services are not included in the December 2020 agreement: the British lost the financial passport that allowed their financial institutions to operate on the continent. If a temporary equivalence of standards has been granted to clearing houses, the allocation of future equivalences will be made on a case-by-case basis: this could be a powerful factor in encouraging financial companies to set up their services directly in the internal market, in particular – why not? – in France. Finally, leaving a Member State is costly. For France, for example, the re-establishment of the border has led to the hiring of 700 customs officers, 177 border officers and 466 sanitary and phytosanitary officers. It is therefore more than 1300 full-time equivalents that have been created, and these costs will be sustainable. France's contribution to the EU budget is also increasing significantly because of Brexit: in 2021, the revenue levy for the European Union increased by EUR 4.6 billion. Beyond these budgetary considerations, the transformation of a Member State into a third State impoverishes us; It deprives us of its resources, and limits human exchanges between our territories. If the will of the British is to be respected, we can only deplore the fact that the United Kingdom has chosen to develop outside the Union. It is vital that this departure does not mark the beginning of a weakening of the European construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u33	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] France has a role to play in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u35	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade, representative of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u36	The serious health, social and economic crisis that we are experiencing is obviously far from being behind us – the circumstances that we are experiencing in France, as everywhere in Europe, remind us of it every day. Despite the hardships, the twenty-seven have shown themselves, in recent months, more united than ever: more united than ever when they agreed on a €750 billion recovery plan; more united than ever, also, when it was necessary to secure, in common, 2 billion doses of vaccines; More united than ever, finally, in front of Brexit. It is precisely this unity that has enabled us to achieve significant results in the agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. While Brexit has been a major challenge for the European project in recent years, we have nevertheless come out from the top.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u37	Michel Barnier was excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u38	It is true that the negotiator, Mr Michel Barnier, played a leading role. The agreement covers many issues and directly affects the work of the Law Commission in its areas of judicial cooperation and internal security. In the area of judicial cooperation, important compromises have been found to limit the consequences of Brexit. The European arrest warrant, for example, which had proved its effectiveness, could no longer be used with the United Kingdom, but would be replaced by a close mechanism: a rapid extradition procedure, similar to that of the European framework, would thus be introduced with the United Kingdom. Another example is that if the United Kingdom no longer participates in the activities of the Eurojust agency – the judicial cooperation unit of the European Union – a British liaison magistrate will remain present in the agency, as the guard of the seals reminded us at its hearing. With regard to the freezing and confiscation of assets, as well as the exchange of information on criminal convictions, the Agreement also provides for provisions similar to European law in force. As far as internal security is concerned, Brexit will not have any negative consequences for our bilateral relationship either. However, the Minister of the Interior pointed out during his hearing by the Law Committee that certain issues remained outstanding and would be the subject of further discussion in the near future – notably the migration issue, which was not included in the negotiating mandate given to the European Union. As a result, the Dublin III Regulation, which provides that the country responsible for investigating an asylum application is the country of entry, no longer applies to the United Kingdom. The British would like to conclude a bilateral agreement with France on this matter; However, as the Minister for the Interior has pointed out, we must find a comprehensive agreement on this matter between the 27 and the United Kingdom. The unity we have shown in the face of Brexit has enabled us to achieve significant results – we must therefore welcome the work carried out by the negotiator, but also by the French Government, which has constantly sought to promote European unity. The same unity must guide us on two major issues, at the heart of the debates related to the crisis, which should lead the discussions of the Committee on Laws: border management in the Schengen area, on the one hand, and the health pass, on the other, which the European Commission, with the mandate of the Member States, has taken up in recent days. For a year now, European states have reintroduced controls at the internal borders of the Schengen area, often in a disorderly and uncoordinated manner, despite the important coordination work carried out by France – we have seen it again in recent days at the German border. For a year now, these measures have seriously affected the lives of millions of French and European citizens who have built their professional, student or family lives in a cross-border area or in another Member State. Even today, some States are taking measures that are considered disproportionate by the European Commission: last week they were five or six to be called to order. I am thinking in particular of Belgium, a border State which has banned all non-essential travel from and to another country since 27 January. While it is of course up to each country to take the measures it considers necessary to protect its population, excessive border measures undermine confidence between European states and citizens. In this respect, my conviction is clear: when we talk about the internal borders of the Union, it is at the level of Europe that the measures must be taken, because it is in this area that we have built our freedoms, and it is in this area that we will have to build, in the months and years to come, the means to protect ourselves. It is not acceptable that a French or European citizen, established in Brussels or elsewhere in Belgium, cannot return to France on the grounds that the State in which he resides prohibits him. It is a deeply painful and unfair experience for many French residents of Belgium, who are accustomed to living on a daily basis the founding principle of the European idea of free movement. I'm coming to the health pass. In the brutal crisis we are experiencing, we must give our fellow citizens clear perspectives and prepare for the future. This necessarily means starting a debate on the health pass. On this subject, as on borders, we must have a common approach with the twenty-seven. If we want to return to a more normal life in the coming weeks, enjoy the places that make our social life – places of culture, cafes, restaurants –, sporting events or even travel back to Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u39	And enough doses of vaccine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u40	... we need to consider all the tools that can prepare us for reopening. In this regard, the health pass – which is not the vaccine passport – is obviously one of the tools we need to work on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u41	It's one of the elements!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u42	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This debate will be difficult and will raise many technical, political and legal questions, but we must all lead it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u43	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u44	I am pleased that today's debate is about European issues. The pandemic that we are going through has highlighted the pregnancy of the Union's action and it is logical that discussions on the subject should finally be held in our Chamber. But the European Union exists and structures our lives beyond crises. With the prospect of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we need to go further both in substance and in form. In the first half of 2022, our country will be able to highlight the priorities so well recalled by our colleague Jean-Louis Bourlanges and to lead discussions at European level on all the major issues. We must be aware of the importance of this deadline and find the best ways to mobilise ourselves to make Europe live in our territories. Europe must be repoliticised so that it does not lose its substance, its interest and its strength. In this respect, we parliamentarians have a real role to play in accelerating the Europeanisation of French policies. The European Treaties give an important place to national parliaments in assessing European legislative activity. We must seize as actively as possible the opportunities that are available to us. This evaluation function includes the organisation of numerous interparliamentary meetings, of which, of course, one can mention the Conference of bodies specialising in Community affairs, which brings together the European Affairs Committees of all national parliaments and representatives of the European Parliament. But she's not the only one. We also organize several thematic interparliamentary conferences in relation to the priorities of the French presidency. The recent Portuguese and German presidencies, in particular, have succeeded in making national parliaments play their part despite the pandemic and travel restrictions. Hearings have made it possible to take stock of each Presidency in this exceptional context. These examples must lead us to reflect upstream on the place that the Assembly will take during the French Presidency. First, debates in public sessions should be organised much more regularly on European subjects. Sessions like today's must be long-term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u45	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u46	During the French Presidency, it will be imperative, in my view, to reserve a large contingent of questions to the Government of Europe, failing which the control of the executive's action will remain insufficient. At the same time, it would be desirable for debates to be held in public in advance of the European Councils. The Assembly has already practiced it, which is regularly the case in the Senate. These debates should enable the Government to defend its position in the European Council, and each political group to defend its vision of Europe. The European Councils are now crucial moments for the European Union and we will have to find ways to join in these events. It seems that this format, the organization of debates upstream of the councils, could be the right one. In addition, the standing committees could also deal with European issues by hearing the minister concerned before the meetings of the Council of the European Union. This, too, will allow for close and effective control by our Assembly. The minister who will preside over his formation of the Council would thus be able to know the position of each group on the subject within his competence. The various European Commissioners could also be heard regularly by the National Assembly, so that they can report on their actions and objectives, particularly during our Presidency semester. The Committee on European Affairs, acting as a watchdog, is in regular contact with the European institutions. In the same vein, we regularly invite European parliamentarians to our meetings, as well as the elected representatives of other national parliaments. The other committees could do the same. I would also like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the French Presidency will take place in the first half of 2022, that is, in the midst of an electoral period. However, we must not abandon our supervisory role. That is why I believe it is essential that our most important debates, in particular the interparliamentary conferences, be organised at the beginning of the suspension of the Assembly's work, at the beginning of March. The French Presidency gives us an exceptional opportunity to seize these issues and to make Europe the centre of our debates. We, the national parliamentarians, will have to be the link between Europe and the territories. Reconnecting citizens to the European institutions is an issue at the Conference on the Future of Europe, which is expected to succeed during the French Presidency. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In ten years' time, what Europe will we have built, and around what priorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u47	We're coming to the enrollment. Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u48	The European question is more relevant than ever in the light of the serious health crisis facing all European countries. In France, we often have the unfortunate habit of looking at Europe from a distant?or suspicious one. We admit his blessings cheaply, but we are quick to criticize his imperfections. We seem to be far from Europe, although it acts very often on our daily lives. I am speaking here as a member of the Mosellan Parliament, a territory which, as everyone knows, has experienced the shadows of history, a department once divided between France and Germany, and which is now fully involved in European integration within a cross-border living area. At home, Europe is not a theoretical question, neither a vague concept, nor even a topic at a conference in Brussels, it is our everyday life, the possibility of moving across borders without restriction, of exchanging, of cooperating, of living with our neighbours. The borders, ladies and gentlemen, are very simple: in our country they do not exist or, to be quite accurate, they no longer existed until the appearance of covid-19. I intend to testify to what is happening when we question European achievements. During the first confinement, the German authorities had brutally closed the borders between Moselle and Germany. Our pool of common life suddenly found itself cut in half: no more opportunity to go to work in Germany, to go for treatment, to shop there, to go to his friends, to his family. A great anger has taken hold of the population, the distrust between Germans and French has settled and the demons of the past have briefly resurfaced. This feeling of anger, minister, I do not hide from you that he is again present in recent days. There is a great deal of concern and misunderstanding about the idea of requiring PCR tests of less than 48 hours, including for our frontier workers and school children, to enter Germany. The best intentions can lead to the worst consequences. Europe, however, is an inexhaustible source of solidarity in times of crisis. I recall that our German friends welcomed French patients in their resuscitation services to avoid the saturation of our hospitals. Thanks to them, several dozen French patients were saved last spring. For me, this is European solidarity! I hear, here and there, some who say that France would vaccinate better and faster if it did it alone. The National Gathering here manipulates the art of disunity and disinformation better than anyone. Historical changes, ladies and gentlemen. Why did we let the European Commission centralize vaccine orders? Precisely so as not to create competition between the big and small countries of the European Union, so as not to provoke a race for vaccines that is harmful to our unity. After a grim mask race, a vaccine race between European countries would have been a very bad symbol. The President of the Republic said this again in the European Council last week: our fate is linked and we have an interest in acting together. The European Commission has therefore negotiated the supply of approved and secure vaccines. Not only do we buy them cheaper than the British and the Americans, they are produced on European soil. I would remind you that this is far from the case of all the countries in the world. Not everything is perfect, though. We were dependent on delivery delays in February and this may have undermined confidence in our immunization capabilities. However, the European Commission has been able to impose an increase in production on suppliers. The goal remains to vaccinate 70% of European adults by the end of the summer. This goal is ambitious, but if it is achieved then several hundred million people will have been vaccinated within eight months. European solidarity must also be expressed on the subject of the moment, namely the vaccination passport, not to be confused with the health pass. As far as the vaccine passport is concerned, let us be very careful as long as the vaccine is not accessible to the French regardless of their age and, above all, let us not only reason by thinking about tourism. Every day, in Moselle, tens of thousands of French or German workers pass indifferently from one country to another; It's our daily life. It would be dangerous to change it further by means of a vaccine passport that is not accessible to the general population. This response, as often, must be coordinated and European. Let us not act alone, at the risk of weakening our unity and, through it, our national sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we face the most serious health crisis since 1945, the question is not where Europe is, the only question, the real question is how to make it ever more effective, more accessible and more supportive. That is the position that I am expressing here on behalf of my group and as a Member of Parliament for a territory linked to Europe by its history, its values and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u49	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u50	[[MM. Philippe Gosselin and Jean-Louis Bourlanges applaud]] After five years of bitter negotiations, the sad Brexit saga ended with the entry into force on 1 January of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. The Group of the Republicans would like to congratulate and stress Michel Barnier's decisive action in the successive negotiations, in order to preserve the unity of the Member States by seeking consensus within the framework of the guidelines laid down by each country, having always in mind the concerns expressed by the Assembly, in particular the fate of fishermen and the preservation of the fluidity of traffic in ports and via the Channel Tunnel. While this agreement is a good agreement, it nevertheless contains some points on which we must remain vigilant. The first concerns the fisheries sector: the re-visit clause in five years' time places a devastating uncertainty on our fishermen's competitiveness and future investments. The Government must now commit itself to guaranteeing potential losses, but also to preparing to engage a real arm of arms with our British neighbours. The second point concerns the situation of our private Erasmus students in the United Kingdom, as our neighbours have chosen to withdraw from this programme to launch their own. However, it would be intolerable to prevent French and European students from studying in an English-speaking country. It is therefore necessary, at European level, to accompany Irish universities in order to benefit from more Erasmus places and to imagine a system of bilateral exchanges between French and British institutions. On the other hand, I can only regret that France has made the deliberate choice not to include migration issues in the negotiations. Out of the Dublin agreements, our neighbours will attract all those who have already applied for asylum in Europe, no longer fearing being sent back to the country in charge of studying this application or first entry. These migrants will therefore be added to those already present along the coasts of the Channel and the North Sea, especially in my constituency of Calais where they would then be in the hands of smugglers, risking their lives to cross on makeshift rafts. Out of the Dublin agreements, the British also relieved themselves of their moral obligation of family reunification and of the care of certain isolated minors. Finally, the Government has a responsibility to ensure that the normative divergence inherent in Brexit does not turn into social, fiscal and environmental dumping to the detriment of our European and French companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u51	The risk is serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u52	In no case can we tolerate the creation of a Singapore-on-Tamisus 30 kilometres from our coasts with, moreover, almost unlimited access to our markets. Brexit means Brexit, Brexit means Brexit in both directions. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no one believed in Brexit; The United Kingdom is no longer a member of the European Union. I issue a solemn warning: the structural causes of Brexit have not disappeared, on the contrary, they have even been reinforced by the health crisis. In the race for vaccines, the United Kingdom has been able to do better than the European Union. For example, more than 20 million British were given a first dose, compared to 3 million French. This difference sinks a corner in the assertion that to many we would necessarily and all the time be more effective than alone. Unable to vaccinate as quickly as the United Kingdom, the European Union has also failed to provide the countries of the former non-EU communist bloc with the necessary doses of vaccine, throwing these countries into the arms of the Russians and the Chinese. It's also a geostrategic defeat. Another cause of Brexit has still not been adequately addressed: it is the migration issue. The future pact on migration and asylum will not solve the existential crisis that is going on in our populations, because it does not answer the question posed by Europeans: can we really choose who has the right to maintain himself and to integrate into our countries? The European Union, if it wants to be understood, must be clear about its values and principles. It also requires greater solidarity between countries and the obligation to observe the same rules of the game. This is not the case today with tax and social dumping organised by different Member States. This will be even less so tomorrow, because of the substantial reductions in their contribution to the Union's budget, which France has agreed to grant to these same countries in order to obtain a political victory for President Macron on the recovery plan. This short-term victory instills the poison of future discord. Finally, the Government's double speech on such sensitive issues as trade agreements or Turkey's accession to the European Union sows the seeds of division. How can President Macron affirm in December his opposition to the free trade agreement with the Common Market of the South, MERCOSUR, while allowing his ministers to continue negotiations in January? How can we accept that the Government has refused since July 2019 to include the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA, on the Senate agenda, while approving its broad partial application? How can we finally tolerate Turkey's intrusiveness in France and Turkish insults to France and the fact that, at the same time, our country does not put a definitive veto on Turkey's accession process, even making Erdogan the second recipient of our official development aid? [[Mr. Philippe Gosselin applauds]] Minister, the responsibility of the Government is simple but frightening: to ensure that Brexit remains an exceptional occurrence and not the beginning of a larger infringement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u53	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u54	This is a strange debate that we have here on Europe. Some will say that it is too broad, others that it is too small, but it is an opportunity to say that there is no doubt that Europe has existed in this crisis on at least two subjects: Europe of health and economic Europe. Let us start with a Europe of health. We all agree that the Union did not shine by its presence at the beginning of the crisis. But in his discharge, let us put this criticism into perspective by highlighting two elements. First of all, let us not forget that early 2020 health was not a Community competence. Then, a year ago, who could predict how quickly pharmaceutical laboratories would find a vaccine for such a disease? The Europe of health is being built. We have launched a massive vaccination campaign on a continent-wide basis, requiring laboratories to negotiate prices and access to personal data. We must have been too shy and too careful at first, minister. On the other hand, with regard to the economic side of the crisis, the European response is more striking, with single financing instruments for all the Member States of the European Union with more than EUR 1800 billion mobilised. We can, of course, regret a few things: the rebates that have been granted to some states, perhaps a lack of ambition on own resources, that is a fact. But Europe is being built through negotiations and we cannot always win. However, let us measure what I call the "reaction-action" represented by the decisions of recent months in the European Union. Indeed, at this point, let us go back a bit and imagine what we would have said a year ago: a coordination of recovery plans? Improbable! A European mechanism for the management of partial unemployment? Inconceivable! A €750 billion debt faculty? Impossible! We have learned from our mistakes and our national individualism. Unlike 2019, Europeans have decided to respond together. In a word, everything is not perfect but only progress! Now, Minister, let's look to the future in the short, medium and long term. In the short term, the priority is clearly to respond to the health crisis and its economic consequences for the population by effectively coordinating and implementing national recovery plans as soon as possible. This issue will be at the heart of the discussions between the European Union and national governments for the year 2021. To the words, Minister, must succeed the actions and above all the political coherence for our continent as a whole. In the medium term, we must continue to address the major challenges facing our continent, including sustainable growth, socially and environmentally. We must advance the continent's intrinsic and sustainable development in the coming years, and the French Presidency of the first half of 2022 must be the decisive moment on these major public policies. Finally, in the longer term, as President Bourlanges has often pointed out, we must continue to question the European institutional model. The first project remains the control of European policies by the national parliaments, dear to President Thillaye. In France, we will benefit from having a debate before each European Council to talk about the French position. The second project, dear to Jean-Louis Bourlanges, is the one of unanimity. The debates on future own resources will really illustrate this. We cannot be satisfied with an increase in the participation of States: we must go further and we have already discussed it. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] But, Mr Minister, before dealing with the issue of own resources, it will be necessary to organise synergies between national budgets and European budgets, which are essential to the proper functioning of the Union. Institutional reform is an organizational issue and above all a democratic imperative. We are far from the historic struggle between those who are in favour and those who are against the European Union. We are now in the phase of its consolidation and the ultimate objective must be the acceptability and visibility of the European Union to its people. Minister, we need to work on a new slogan: "It is thanks to Europe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u55	Austerity everywhere is "thanks to Europe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u56	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u57	The health crisis highlights Europe's strengths and weaknesses. This was already true during the 2008 financial crisis, and is even more so today. Among the forces, there is European monetary solidarity. Without the European Central Bank, the ECB, France would be at a standstill or almost because its level of public debt exceeds the capacity of private lenders or in any case their readiness to lend us at rates close to 0%. The ECB is a pillar that conditions stimulus policies through the various national or European plans. But having money does not necessarily mean having concrete and exciting projects. In this respect, Europe is still trying to reach agreement on common objectives and to have a real operational force. This point is particularly visible with regard to vaccination, on which I will concentrate my intervention. First of all, I would like to welcome the principle of group orders and fair distribution of ordered doses. With this decision, Europe affirms solidarity and unity. This theoretically allows each country to have more doses than if each had placed orders alone, which would have defacto favoured the largest countries. Unfortunately, however, this strategy has been hampered by Europe's lack of implementation of concrete projects, whether on the financial, industrial or operational aspects. These three points must question us and, above all, encourage us to change our brace. As the Terra Nova study published a few weeks ago indicates, "European industry has historically enjoyed very favourable advantages with European leadership in research and innovation with the development of new vaccines. In 2008, according to Vaccine Europe surveys, the EU hosted 60% of vaccine development projects and two out of three researchers specialising in vaccine research were working on European soil. But contrary to what happened in the United States – [public investment has been divided by three in recent years in Europe] –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u58	"It's thanks to Europe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u59	... the public authorities in Europe have disengaged from vaccine research." This has a very direct consequence: most of the investment comes from the United States and most of the production is no longer on European soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u60	"It's thanks to Europe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u61	This is a direct result of the weak leadership of industry in the European Commission, which is phagocytized by the Competition Directorate, which has no offensive vision for the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u62	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u63	As far as the financial aspect is concerned, Europe is not in "commando mode". Although the President of the Republic said that we were at war with the covid, he clearly did not mobilize the commandos. The United States, renowned for its liberalism, has no state of mind when it comes to responding to the emergency, including by financing private companies with public funds to achieve an objective deemed essential. Rightly, they considered vaccination crucial. For example, they launched Operation Warp Speed a year ago, which they provided with $10 billion, enabling them to accelerate research activities as early as February 2020. To this end, they have acted on two fronts: public funding through collaboration with private companies and direct investment in vaccine production. Europe's resources seem to be three times less: EUR 3 billion for the vaccine fund and EUR 1 billion for covid research, which does not include only vaccines. I say "seems" because the European Commission does not respond to us when we ask for an overview of all the funding, that of the European Union and that of the Member States, which would allow us to compare better with the United States. As far as industrial capacity is concerned, European Commissioner Thierry Breton is leading the Commission's new task force on vaccine production capacity, in particular to put an end to production bottlenecks. Of course we have never been confronted in our history with such a demand for vaccines, in such a short period of time. But we must recognize that others are now doing better than we do. This weakness in production must prompt us to act quickly around fundamental principles: to become the continent of progress, of shared progress. To have an offensive approach and to put an end to the policy of the Directorate of Competition which, in the name of the dogma of the perfect competition, is being tackled to the point of eliminating all our industry and all our European and national champions. Industry must be the priority, not competition. Europe must assert itself as a power, otherwise it will disintegrate and we will all lose there. That Denmark and Austria turn to Israel for vaccines illustrates the risk of a future geopolitical stall. In conclusion, if Europe saves us money, since without it there would be no recovery plan in any country, except in Germany, it must now save itself and save us with concrete projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u64	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u65	The year 2021 marks the renewal of a common strategy between the European Union and the African Union: in the context of a global pandemic and in the face of the challenge of ecological transition, European and African countries draw up guidelines for their future cooperation. Indeed, the sixth EU-Africa Summit, originally scheduled for October 2020, was postponed to 2021. On 28 January 2021, in the European Parliament, the Committee on Development on Education, Agriculture, Gender, Debt Relief and Migration adopted a position on the future relationship between the two continents. In particular, she said that Europe and Africa should free themselves from the donor-recipient relationship. We can only welcome this, as the covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the need for a stronger partnership with Africa. Indeed, while tensions between the major powers of China, Russia or the United States continue to increase, at the risk of a little more sweeping the world, relations between the European Union and the African Union must be strengthened. Africa is changing positively, contrary to what may be thought, and the European perspective on this continent must also evolve. The migration issue can no longer be the only prism by which the second would look first. I would like to state here a parenthesis as co-rapporteur of the visa information mission, to recall that we, Sira Sylla, have made a number of proposals that I and myself welcome, including the improvement of the Schengen system for better mutualisation and the creation of one-stop shops in some African countries. Let us remember that despite the health crisis, Africa's growth rates are among the highest in the world and that no one can ignore its economic and commercial potential – but at the same time Turkey, China, the Gulf countries, Russia and India have not forgotten it. Thus, while ODA – official development assistance – should never be seen as a counterpart to hypothetical market share gains, it is important to remember that Europe remains Africa's main investor and trading partner. With nearly €20 billion disbursed per year, the European Union is among the top contributors to the various development programmes. As I recently defended by means of an amendment adopted during the examination of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, we must no longer be ashamed of it – neither as French nor as Europeans. Moreover, we can only encourage the engagement of nine European countries with our armed forces, particularly within the Takuba force, which operates in the Sahel, because the terrorist threat is common – I insist – to African and European countries. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Finally, in order to treat Africa as a complete entity, it is necessary to reinvent the framework of the partnership between the EU and the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP), which does not integrate the Maghreb or South Africa, which is dealt with separately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u66	What about Cuba?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u67	In this environment, a project such as CEMER, the Mediterranean Renewable Energy Community, could be a link between the two continents and a formidable promoter of the Francophonie. Brexit could have caused European unity to break out; However, the latter remains under threat of environmental, health and trade challenges, as illustrated by some disagreements about the free trade agreement with the MERCOSUR countries. The fact is therefore obvious, minister: today, because of their history, their culture and their exchanges, a Marseilles, a Montpellieran or a Toulonnais have a stronger community of destiny with a Tangerois, an Algiers or a Tunisian, than with a Warsaw, a Budapest or a Viennese. We all know Victor Hugo's famous formula, which I do not resist to recall here: "What Paris advises, Europe meditates on it; As Paris begins, Europe continues to do so. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u68	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u69	[[Jean-Louis Bourlanges and Sabine Thillaye applaud]] While the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union is taking shape in less than a year, it is unpretentious, Mr Minister, that the "Acting together" group is calling on the Government on France's ambitions to strengthen the Euro-African partnership.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u70	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u71	A divorce is never easy, and the one we have just lived with our British friends has been long and complicated; But now that the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom of 24 December 2020 has been signed, we must move forward. The construction of Europe will continue, but it must take account of this departure and learn from it: we must analyse our flaws, our shortcomings, our mistakes; We need to look away and act close. That is why the IDU and Independent Group wants us to move forward towards a genuine political Europe: it would be an asset to provide more coherent, effective and credible answers to the global issues facing the EU and to the necessary articulation of several levels of sovereignty. More than ever, talking about a political Europe, a Europe of solidarity or a Europe of defence must bring us together and find a concrete achievement. However, saying yes to this Europe which advances, accompanies and protects, to this respected Europe, which is a driving force on the international stage, does not mean lowering the guard at national level. Indeed, we must remain vigilant with regard to the guidelines that could be too liberal in trade matters. Thus, as part of the new partnership with the United Kingdom, we will have to ensure that we do not face unfair competition because unfortunately, WTO rules – the world trade organisation – do not always meet the challenges. On the other hand, the system established at the Irish border raises many questions and concerns in our group: this system cannot become a Trojan horse on European borders, for British products or from third countries. While it appears that control is actually being applied in the ports of Northern Ireland, the recent "bumble" of the President of the European Commission – as some media have described it – on the ban on the export of vaccines to Northern Ireland from the European Union illustrates the uncertainties concerning this protocol: the European executive seems to doubt the mechanism and, above all, its compliance. In fact, the Northern Irish Unionist Party, finding this protocol contrary to the free movement of goods between Great Britain and Northern Ireland enshrined in the 1800 Act of Union, has recently attacked him in court. It should be noted that the North Irish Assembly will be called upon to vote in four years' time on the maintenance of this protocol. Our group therefore proposes that the representatives of the nation we are should be able to observe for themselves the functioning of this mechanism, in order to better measure whether it actually protects our interests. I'm going back to the fate of our fishermen. If the agreement guarantees them similar access to British waters for the next five years, what will happen to our fishery at the end of this period? Above all, what will be the UK's decisions in the management of their waters, particularly with regard to the famous catch totals and the resulting quotas? If the latter were to be reduced for our fishermen, we would demand that Europe reduce in proportion the imports of fish caught by Englishmen. Finally, I will address the issue of the financial passport. The latest information indicates that an agreement would be in the process of being concluded with the United Kingdom to re-establish an equivalence of this passport, as if the British had not left the Union! It would be a nonsense, a mistake that would allow London to remain the first European financial centre, even though many companies show their willingness to settle on the continent. This would be all the more aberrant because taxation on financial transactions in the European Union, which must be introduced to pay the covid-related debt, would then encourage financial actors to move towards London, a place without regulation. In conclusion, I would like to hear from you, Minister, about the situation of our Scottish friends. The Prime Minister of Scotland has indicated that if she wins the next election, which I believe will take place in a few months' time, she will call for a new referendum on Scotland's independence. With the polls indicating that the "yes" to independence could greatly win, would France be prepared for Scotland to become independent to be quickly welcomed into the European Union without an extended process? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u72	You won't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u73	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u74	I will reserve the whole of my speech to a burning issue of the moment for human beings in general, for Europeans and, of course, for the French in particular: freedom of access to the vaccine against covid-19. This is a fundamental question: since all humanity faces death, disease and the threat to the preservation of the ecosystem, regardless of latitude, skin colour, religion or age, its unity must be obvious. Perhaps you know that I recently published, together with the former President of Brazil, Mr. Lula, the former President of Ecuador, Mr. Rafaël Correa, and Jean Ziegler, well known to us, French, Vice-Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the United Nations Human Rights Council, a call for the lifting of patents on vaccines. I recall that this initiative is widely supported around the world: the Director General of the World Health Organisation, WHO, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have expressed their support for it. This is also the case of doctors from eleven European states or French organisations such as the CGT, ATTAC – an association for the taxation of financial transactions and for citizen action –, the FSU, the League of Human Rights, Solidaires, or political parties such as the French Communist Party, the Socialist Party, Europe Ecology Greens, Unsubmissives – perhaps others that I forget, that they would like to excuse me. The law often obliges us to go to the aid of others. French law also penalises non-assistance to persons in danger of five years' imprisonment. At the international level, the law of the sea requires the provision of assistance to any person in distress, regardless of the detour that this implies in relation to his or her own trajectory. Despite all this, the World Trade Organization remains absolutely closed to all human conscience, since on March 1 and 2, it opposed India's and South Africa's request to suspend patents on vaccines. The European Union has joined in this refusal. At this time, the European Union is opposed to the abolition of patents on vaccines. Well, we don't accept that, and I'm sure very few on these benches accept it. Office licenses, which remove patent rights, could save thousands of lives. Moreover, as protection through vaccination spreads, the free movement of peoples from one end of the planet would be improved: it is such an obvious fact that no one has ever thought of contradicting it. But we, French, look at the situation before us: the fifty richest countries received 70 per cent of the doses of vaccine injected, while the fifty poorest countries received only 0.1 per cent of the doses injected. As we speak, money is therefore the exclusive discriminant of access to health protection for human beings: the price of Pfizer's vaccine is ten times higher than that which would allow the widest international spread of the vaccine! To produce more, and thus avoid shortages on all continents and delays in deliveries like those we know in France, it is necessary to have free access to the patent. I would add that we cannot be content with agreements based on the good will of Big Pharma, here or there, to give up their licensing rights: this cannot be enough, and we French cannot be content with thinking that charity is worth solidarity – even if, of course, I do not intend to push back the charity of anyone in this matter. However, it is not on this basis that international relations can be organized. Especially since we have rights: $40 billion in profits on vaccines, 30% margin on the vaccine for Pfizer; Without public research, there would have been no vaccine! Direct public funding is $15 billion. All university research, particularly French, on covid, is shared freely and free: Big Pharma confiscates the work of humanity! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. André Chassaigne also applauds]] No health benefits, it's possible – that's where I'll finish. I would like to recall that the inventor of the polio vaccine refused to file a patent, that the ex officio licences exist for AIDS treatments, and that in France – yes, in France! – until 1959, it was forbidden to collect money from a vaccine patent. I would like this to continue and France to say to Europe: that is enough, freedom of access to the vaccine for the whole of humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u75	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u76	The Libertés et Territoires Group takes the opportunity offered by this debate on Europe to refer in particular to two bilateral relations: the one with the United Kingdom, which has already been widely mentioned, and the one with Spain, particularly with regard to transport, which is a matter of my heart. I will first mention Brexit. While we welcome the agreement reached last December – notably by Michel Barnier and his teams – to avoid a dry exit of our British friends from the European Union, we are also aware of the difficulties we still have to face in the coming months. In 2019, France's trade balance with the United Kingdom had a surplus of EUR 12.5 billion over a total trade between the two countries valued at EUR 50 billion, or 10% of total French foreign trade. Our countries are particularly involved in certain strategic sectors, such as aeronautics, automobiles, fishing, but also wine logistics. The consequences of Brexit will not be homogeneous in the national territory: it will primarily affect the coastal regions – the Atlantic coast and the English Channel – and the regions depending on the key sectors I have just mentioned. Between the European Union and the United Kingdom, the signed agreement perpetuates the absence of customs duties, but not customs formalities, the re-establishment of which will lead, during trade, to an extension of the time limits and substantial additional costs, which will affect our economy. From the perspective of direct connection by TGV between Bordeaux and London, for example, this complicates our task. So how does the Government plan to deal with this problem? What impact, Minister, do you think it could have on the economy? I would also like to draw your attention to the situation in our ports. On 6 October, the British Government announced that it wished to transform its seaports into free ports, i.e. areas where goods are exempt from customs duties. There should be about ten of them created in 2021. The news did not escape the President of the Hauts-de-France Regional Council, Xavier Bertrand, who called on the Government to do so. The aim of such an initiative is indeed to make these ports more competitive by giving them a cost advantage over European and especially French competition. A real tax and commercial paradise could thus be at our doorstep: once again, we can easily imagine the consequences for the economy and for jobs in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u78	We therefore wonder what measures the Government intends to take to limit the effects of this unfair competition and to develop the attractiveness of French ports. For my part, I seized Bercy about the wine logistics, but the file obviously remained outstanding. Our colleague referred to European policy towards the Mediterranean countries: at Verdon-sur-Mer, for example, the great maritime port of Bordeaux, we could build on the success of Tangier Med.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u80	The other point I want to address concerns road and rail infrastructure in connection with Spain. It has real ambition in this respect; in the years when France is not a leader in high-speed lines, it is she who occupies this place. The pressure of the ecologists, or rather of those whom I will call the "green bobos", is clearly much less strong than here, where our policies focus on cycling and scootering: since Nicolas Sarkozy's announcements about recovery, transport infrastructures no longer give rise to real big projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u81	What about the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u82	However, we should speed up those who can lead to European corridors with our Spanish neighbour, such as the Grand Projet rail du Sud-Ouest – GPSO – which covers the Bordeaux-Toulouse and Bordeaux-Spain lines. Its realization is trampling, even though Alain Rousset is attached to it and the region would need fluid transport more than ever. We need a trans-European network of rail freight, passenger transport for leisure and work. The European metropolis of Bordeaux, where the south-facing transit is concentrated, has the sad privilege of being the third most congested city in France. However, the project of great circumvention, dear to Alain Juppé, has still not been discussed. It would be welcome if the Government would expose to national representation its ambitions in the area of transport infrastructure in the South-West, including, I repeat, those linking us to Spain: fundamental issues arise from this in terms of economic development, public procurement or tourism. As far as transport is concerned, I will not go back to the failure of the merger between Alstom and Siemens, but I sometimes allow myself to dream that Alstom will merge with Spain's CAF. Finally, Mr Minister, we want to know the French strategies for economic development through transport policy. We wish them ambitious, commensurate with the risks of British social dumping and delays caused by financial losses on the Spanish side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u83	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u84	While it is still difficult to draw the definitive conclusions of the crisis that we are going through, I nevertheless believe, at this stage, that I can make two observations. The first concerns our country: above all, this crisis has revealed the real state of public power. Everyone has now been able to see that the liberal policies that have been applied continuously over the last twenty years have had a detrimental effect on our public services and our capacity for action; With fiscal austerity, privatization and de-industrialisation, successive governments have put France of the Conseil national de la Résistance, and the welfare state that it involved, into pieces. Our fellow citizens experience it bitterly every day! My second point concerns the European Union, which, too, has severely failed to ameliorate this crisis. It is not surprising: since the ratification of the Maastricht Treaty, we have repeatedly denounced this Europe where the peoples, solidarity, are absent subscribers, where the Treaties give rise to increased competition. Since Maastricht, we have protested against the ultraliberal philosophy of pretending that the less the state acts, the better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u85	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u86	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] It is this absurd philosophy, alas, that drives the European Union as we know it today; when it is led to do something other than concretize the principles of ordoliberalism, it succumbs under the weight of its own turpitudes. I would like to point out two recent initiatives where she was at the manoeuvring stage: the recovery plan and the vaccination plan. Let us begin by referring to this revival which, contrary to what has been shown, undeniably constitutes a defeat for France. The frugal countries have achieved much: the reduction in their contribution to the EU budget, the reduction in the total amount of subsidies, and above all the obligation to carry out structural reforms in order to benefit from European appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u87	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u88	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] In concrete terms, this means that the French recovery plan is at best undersized, at worst a disguised fiscal austerity plan! A few figures: a net contributor to the European budget, France will have to repay €40 billion; Of the remaining 60 billion in the plan, 30 billion had already been provided. We will therefore receive $30 billion to compensate for the loss of $230 billion, 10% of our gross domestic product – GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u89	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This is insane! But the worst is yet to come. The European Commission is currently discussing with the Member States the conditions required to benefit from the European Recovery Plan. This led us to discover that it considered the German economy too unliberalised to deserve these credits. What about the French economy? Will there be a reform of pensions that the majority of French people refuse? A fall in unemployment insurance? Privatizations to all cries? All this, ladies and gentlemen, will be done with the consent of your majority. The oripeaux of the good shepherd will not long hide the Brussels technocrats, the wolves of fiscal austerity. Let's go to the vaccination plan. On the very basis of the President of the Commission's admission, the campaign started very badly. France is a good example of this. Late signing of contracts, poor coordination of deliveries: Europe's health policy is now being mocked around the world, and its dysfunctions force Member States to resort to other means. Thus, in order to eradicate covid-19, Germany managed to close its borders and quarrel with Brussels, which did not understand why this measure, which was essential to the control of an epidemic, could be taken without its agreement. Hungary is being delivered with Chinese vaccines; England, the insolent woman who dared to leave the ship, is far ahead of us, to the point that her parliament will soon debate a resumption of normal life. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] There is no need to continue this inventory at the Prévert: the European Union is writing today a chronicle of its failure, except that of a death announced. Clearly, the crisis will have allowed the European peoples to see it as it is, far from the European fables that we are told over time. Except for the financiers you're defending, no one wants that Union anymore! If nothing is done to get out of what Alain Supiot beautifully calls "a dogmatic sleep", provoke a democratic, social, ecological and economic electroshock, overthrow the table; If, in order to paraphrase General de Gaulle, you continue to jump like cabris by repeating "Europe, Europe, Europe! So I'm confident that the coronavirus will carry more than human lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u91	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u92	In less than a year, our country will assume the semi-annual presidency of the Council of the European Union for the thirteenth time in its history. This is a great responsibility vis-à-vis our institutions, but also an international responsibility and political responsibility. In a world like ours, increasingly brutal, plagued by unprecedented ecological upheavals, through a war of models, it is clear that the fundamentals of the European project – sovereignty, solidarity, the desire to prepare for the future together – take on a new meaning and even a new urgency. Mrs Thillaye asked me how we intended to organise ourselves during this presidency: we are open to all consultations, whether prior or not, on this subject. The Secretary of State for European Affairs, Clement Beaune, is at your disposal. Parliament will decide which meetings it wishes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Europe, for us, therefore, is first and foremost a project of sovereignty, fully in line with the 21st century. Let us make it clear: true patriotism today consists in understanding that there is no reason to choose between Europe and the nation, that turning back on the former would weaken the latter. Our national sovereignty and our European sovereignty, far from being exclusive, combine and reinforce each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u94	That is the reality we share; For most of us, that's a fact. The sovereignty that we now assert to twenty-seven, on behalf of the 450 million Europeans, is an additional lever of sovereignty for each of our nations. If we want to remain actors in our own history and masters of our destiny, if we wish to consider with lucidity and pragmatism the relations of power that currently govern international life, we must go further in the construction of this common sovereignty, continuing to chart a path of strategic autonomy for France and Europe. In 2021, to confuse sovereignty and autarcy would be absurd; On the other hand, it must be noted that in the process of acquiring this sovereignty, we have long confused naivety and openness. This is what makes the European awakening of which we wanted to give the signal, so that our Union finally emerges from the time of innocence and, very concretely, gives itself the means to be respected. To be respected, first of all, in economic and commercial matters: on our initiative, last October the European Union introduced a screening of investments in strategic areas, such as telecommunications, biotechnology and infrastructure. Reciprocity and loyalty being essential to trade, Europeans now formulate clear conditions and no longer hesitate to defend their interests; Frankly, that is a real step forward. Knowing Mr Bourlanges is particularly concerned about this subject, I would like to stress our vigilance with regard to the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment, which the European Union concluded with China in December. This agreement represents real progress for our companies in terms of access to the Chinese market; It is also a major lever, which pushes China to integrate the sustainable development goals and almost obliges it to combat forced labour. This last question is indeed of the greatest importance to our country. Our commercial partnership cannot be built on contempt for human rights, and we will pay particular attention to this. The communication published by the Commission on 18 February to establish the European Union's new trade policy strategy is part of this European revival movement; In this respect, it represents a real paradigm shift. In reading it, I am pleased that the idea of sovereignty does not stop at those of competition, industry or trade – to take up Mrs Rabault's comments earlier. Everyone, in recent months, has realized that it is imperative that we improve the resilience of our value chains and reduce our strategic dependencies. The aim is to identify our weaknesses, diversify our supplies, build up European strategic stocks, facilitate recycling where relevant and, for certain particularly critical products such as medicines – including vaccines, Mr Mélenchon – to regain supply capacity within the European Union through the creation of new production capacities or the relocation of certain key segments. Increasingly, our European partners are also aware that our efforts at the WTO to regulate trade must necessarily be accompanied by stronger European tools and greater political attention to the fight against unfair practices and the coercive or extraterritorial practices of some of our major partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u95	The United States of America?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u96	I said "some of our major partners"; It's identifiable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u97	It's not the Chinese!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u98	They are also gradually becoming aware of the need to bring our trade policy and sustainable development goals into line, in particular by making compliance with the Paris Agreement a central element of our trade agreements. At the same time, we are working to renew our competition policy in order to take better account of subsidies and state aid from third countries and to strengthen our industrial policy, particularly with regard to our strategic assets and sectors of the future. This is the meaning of the important projects of common European interest, the PIIECs, which we are developing with our European partners and which combine public and private investment. Projects have been launched in the battery and microelectronics sectors; It is now about launching more in the field of hydrogen, data storage, high-performance calculations and health, as we have just done – a necessity – with the new HERA incubator, which aims to better control the entire vaccine research and development chain. Sovereignty also concerns the areas of security and defence. As regards the first, the Commission will make proposals in May on the future of the Schengen area; It is one of our most valuable achievements, the one that allows the free movement of citizens. I would also point out to Mr Anglade that freedom of movement has in no way been called into question in recent months. There have been some delays, at least initially, but this principle persists in the European Union despite health restrictions. In any case, because of the pressures that the Schengen area has been under for several years – migratory pressure, terrorist threat and today's health crisis – it is time to renovate it. For our part, we have already outlined ways to strengthen our external borders, respect for rules and governance within this common area, which must remain an area of freedom for Europeans. The sovereign Europe, the Europe that protects, is also our programme to combat the terrorist threat that must be implemented this year. It includes the strengthening of Europol, the role of the Union's counter-terrorism coordinator and the adoption of the Regulation on online terrorist content. Mr Anglade has already mentioned these elements in part in his speech. They contribute to the affirmation of our sovereignty in the area of security and defence. I will not go back to what Mrs Dumas has said on this subject, except to point out that, since 2017, concrete projects and initiatives have been aimed at ensuring the strategic autonomy of the European Union: a stronger and more autonomous Europe is obviously an asset for achieving a more balanced transatlantic relationship. The United States knows that it normally has everything to gain to be able to count on a strong ally; My new counterpart Antony Blinken told us this explicitly from Washington at the last meeting of European Foreign Ministers. Today, the powers that rely on the weakness of democracies in general and Europe in particular, such as Russia or Turkey, find us more united and more determined to defend our interests. We saw him last summer in the Mediterranean. We are currently working, as Mrs Dumas has just pointed out, on the so-called strategic compass. In concrete terms, this exercise launched under the German Presidency at the end of last year will set European ambitions for 2030 under our presidency. On the basis of a common threat assessment, it will be necessary to affirm the upsurge in the capacity and operational capacity of the European Union. In this regard, I am thinking of certain conflict situations, such as the one in the Sahel, which we shall be talking about tomorrow, but also of the disputed spaces; These are the lands that some would like to exclude us from and that are increasingly becoming new spaces of conflict: the maritime, the space, the digital. We will only be able to face these challenges in solidarity within the European Union. Digital technology is the third major area in which Europe must uphold its sovereignty. Some powers, as you know, have made it a playground – or rather, a ground of influence, manipulation and destabilization. It is a threat to our security and to the vitality of our democracies. Another challenge, in the digital field, is the attitude of certain platforms that have accumulated unprecedented power in the history of our economies and societies, without assuming responsibility for them in fiscal, social and freedoms terms. These are enormous challenges for our countries. Of course, it is the responsibility of each State to strengthen its resilience and preserve its democratic processes. But Europe must help through the revision of the NIS Directive on network and information system security: this will set the regulatory framework for improving the Union's security level and the cyber capabilities of the Member States. Its application is essential for us to be able to approach the future more calmly. But in the digital field, Europe must also act directly where it alone can regulate effectively. This is what it has already done in the area of privacy protection, with the standards of the General Data Protection Regulation. It has also done so in the fight against online terrorist content. Two major texts, the DMA – Digital Markets Act – and the DSA – Digital Services Act, were presented by the Commission in December to regulate digital services and markets and to strengthen the fight against illegal and harmful content. France will be at the forefront for Europe to equip itself as quickly as possible with these major instruments of sovereignty. Let us be clear: this step to strengthen our digital sovereignty is neither punitive nor protectionist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u99	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u100	On the contrary, it seeks to preserve a free, open and secure internet. It is time to put the security and freedoms of citizens back at the centre of digital life: that is the ambition we have with our European partners. Finally, I would like to reiterate that being sovereign and taking on the balance of power does not mean abandoning our alliances and partnerships. It simply means ensuring that our interests are taken into account. That is true with regard to the new transatlantic partnership, which I mentioned, but also – it has often been mentioned in this debate – the relationship that we must build with the United Kingdom after Brexit. I am thinking of the statements made by Mrs Dumas, Mr Dumont and many others on the subject. Thanks to the agreement we reached at Christmas, we can have a specific trade relationship with the United Kingdom. We accepted the formula "zero tariff, zero quota", but on one condition: "zero dumping". This implies, in particular, compliance with the rules of origin, which must be robust, but also with the rules of fair competition. Clearly, the United Kingdom cannot serve as a re-export platform to the European Union for products from third countries, and there can be no state aid or differences in standards that could have a negative effect on our trade relations. Mrs Dalloz referred to the difficulties associated with customs formalities, which should be discussed again; all is not completed in the implementation of the agreement. Mr Favennec-Becot stressed compliance with the Northern Ireland Protocol, and other proposals were made. We now need to continue the discussions, but in order to deal with all eventualities, we have a robust system of control and sanctions, which includes compensatory measures, so-called rebalancing measures and cross-retaliations in areas other than the one in which the violation occurred, should such an adventure occur. Greater vigilance is needed on all these issues. Thanks to the December agreement, we also obtained guarantees to defend the interests of our fishermen; Maybe we'll talk about it during the questions. France had said that fishing would not be an adjustment variable in the negotiations, and it was not, even though there were still issues to be addressed. I'll talk to them in a moment. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, does not exhaust our entire relationship with the United Kingdom, which we absolutely must reinvent in the fields of security, foreign policy and defence policy. While Europe, even without the United Kingdom, remains an immense market power, it nevertheless has an objective interest in close cooperation with the United Kingdom in the fields of foreign policy and defence. I've always said that, both in public and in private. That is why we have always shared, as I am doing again today, our readiness to work on these issues with London – even because we are both permanent members of the Security Council, we are two nuclear powers, our interests converge in the defence of multilateralism or human rights, the protection of the environment or the fight against climate change. Moreover, since the treaties of Lancaster House, which we celebrated every ten years in November, we have built a strong defence partnership between France and the United Kingdom, which Brexit does not call into question. We must therefore have these discussions with the United Kingdom by showing intransigence in respect of the texts, vigilance in their application, and willingness and readiness to work on the other issues; And that's what's happening. Finally, with regard to external partnerships, we need to ensure that our interests and values are respected in the context of the dialogue of frankness, firmness and demand that we have with China, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech. We must also deal with China's issues of common interest such as environmental issues. We will not be able to reach meaningful agreements in Copenhagen if China is absent from the negotiations. We must know that, and that does not prevent firmness on other issues, particularly on the issue of the Uighurs. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is also a project of solidarity. We could forget that when we wanted to make Europe a market and only a market. It was a mistake that we must not only repair but also ensure that we do not reproduce, as we seek to ensure that Europe assumes itself as a power and that we are also faced with major upheavals. For solidarity, although some sometimes tend to lose sight of this evidence, remains our first weapon in the face of crises. This is of course the case for the crisis of the covid-19; Mrs Grandjean spoke about it, and others spoke on the subject. I would like to point out that a year ago the Europe of health did not exist, because health was never part of the Union's competence. Today, the situation is probably not completely satisfactory, not perfect; Some have stigmatized some, sometimes significant, shortcomings. But we must measure the way we have come! As we advanced by forced march, we gradually managed to coordinate and organize ourselves. In the face of the urgency of an unprecedented crisis, we have laid the foundations for a Europe of health that is both sovereign and solidarity, as Mr Jerretie pointed out. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] On the issue of vaccines, we can argue as much as we want. I still think that it is at the end of the story that we will have to learn the lessons, because then the comparisons will make sense. But I am ready for this debate – including, Mr Mélenchon, on the common public good of vaccines at the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u101	So you agree with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u102	In fact, we were among the first to be at the World Health Organization's meeting, and we were few at the time – I recall that I myself took the floor on this issue in the context of WHO... I repeat, I am ready to open the debate on the notion of public good,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u103	When?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u104	... without prejudging what its conclusions might be. I would remind you, Mr Mélenchon, that the VOCID-19 Vaccines Global Access – VOCAX – initiative was taken by the United Nations under the leadership of the President of the Republic, in close cooperation with the European Union. Contrary to what you're saying, this initiative has had very important effects, notably by allowing doses of vaccine to start arriving in Africa...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u105	If you promise to vaccinate all of Africa, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ghana received 600,000 doses on 24 February, Côte d'Ivoire on 26 February, Angola on 2 March, and Nigeria on 4 million doses on the same day. It is not invention, it is a concrete example of solidarity resulting from the initiative that we have taken as a matter of urgency. I do not deny that questions have to be asked, but the facts have to be seen before they are criticized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u107	Why are you so aggressive? I didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u108	I understand that it bothers you that I tell you the truth about the Europe of solidarity, but that's how it is! If we had presented ourselves in order scattered in front of the industrialists, we would all have been losers, because we would have fought to get rid of the vaccines, which would ultimately have benefited the larger countries. At the beginning of the epidemic, masks were ripped off on Chinese tarmacs. We are no longer there and we have been able to stand together at European level both in the purchase and in the sharing of vaccines. I really hope that this dynamic will continue and, even if there are temptations of secession, I repeat that it is at the end of history that we will make the accounts. In order to ensure the Union's long-term resilience to cross-border health threats – it is known that there may be other pandemics – it is necessary to strengthen the dynamics of Europe's health, which is being created by walking. The process is under way, I am thinking of the strengthening of the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention – ECDC – the decision to make the European Medicines Agency – EMA – a coordinating framework, or the institution of the European Agency for Advanced Biomedical Research and Development, which will cover the entire value chain from research to industrial production. I see in these various initiatives the signs of a welcome start. I agree with President Rabault, who referred earlier to the European lack of production: indeed, we no longer produce a single gram of paracetamol in Europe...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u109	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u110	... and it is absolutely necessary to regain control in this area essential to our sovereignty, as we have been able to verify in recent months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u111	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u112	European solidarity was also expressed in the context of the agreement reached on the recovery plan: for the first time, European solidarity took the form of a borrowing capacity, hence a common debt. Without going further on an issue that has been debated for a long time here, I stress that this solidarity must also be expressed in the fight against social dumping: on this point, we must set an agenda for economic and social convergence between the States of the Union, in particular on the question of the European minimum wage. Solidarity is also what will enable us to find a European solution to the challenge of immigration – it is even the only realistic way to achieve this. I am thinking of solidarity between the Member States, but also of solidarity with our partners in the South. Member States must show solidarity and responsibility among themselves to support the countries of first entry and avoid secondary movements and, in the case of persons who are not entitled to protection, jointly assert the same requirement vis-à-vis the countries of transit and origin regarding the returns and readmissions of persons who are not eligible for asylum. Failure to take this step is tantamount to killing the right of asylum, because it trivializes movements. The Migration and Asylum package proposed by the Commission is in the right direction and provides an excellent working basis for the Twenty-Seven, who will probably have to take a decision on this at the time of the French Presidency. As I said, solidarity must also be expressed towards our partners in the South, because we cannot provide lasting answers to this challenge without giving back to those who feel forced to go to Europe prospects for the future that do not go through the tragedies and dangers of exile. That is the whole meaning of the commitment we made together yesterday when you passed the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, and it is the whole meaning of Europe's commitment to development that is the world's leading donor. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is a future project, a combat project. Indeed, the common goods we want to pass on tomorrow to the next generation are threatened and we must defend them, starting with our planet. Ms Maillart-Méhaignerie referred to the topics on the table in preparation for the Copenhagen meeting. With this in mind, the EU Heads of State and Government meeting within the European Council set a new target of reducing CO emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. We must now set out these objectives by adopting a concrete strategy to accelerate the decarbonisation of the energy sector, strengthen the carbon sinks of our forests and establish the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that France has been calling for for for ten years. Yesterday, our partners saw this approach only as a form of protectionism...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u113	That's not a big word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u114	...and refused to follow us on this path. Today, the European Commission realizes that such a measure is essential to the effectiveness of our commitment to climate change and to the preservation of the competitiveness of our businesses and industries. This awareness is also part of the European awakening and the exit from innocence that I mentioned earlier. On all these issues, the Commission will present a climate-energy package in June which we will have an opportunity to discuss. We fought in 2015 to get the Paris agreement and, for four years, we have been fighting to preserve it. Today, the United States is back with us and we intend to continue to lead the way. It is not only a matter of taking our part in a necessarily collective effort, but also of encouraging our partners to do more now, and the Glasgow Climate Change Conference of 2021 – COP 26 – will be the culmination of this demanding approach. It is indeed a fight we are fighting, and we have to play a decisive role in advancing multilateralism. We do not make eclipse multilateralism, but instead consider it the only real way forward for the international community as a whole through dialogue, cooperation and law, which are the constitutive choices defining Europe. The stakes of this multilateralism are absolutely essential, if only for the definition of standards. In this area, we have gained experience in recent years, which we must now use to meet all the challenges facing us on a very confrontational international scene. Finally, we must fight to keep the promises of this new industrial revolution, the digital revolution, by putting forward the model that we are in the process of inventing. This movement of projection on the international stage is indeed complementary to the movement of affirmation of our sovereignty that I described earlier. These great balances that we are working to define for ourselves between innovation and regulation, between protection of individuals and data protection, between market and citizenship, we now need to make it the matrix of a more controlled and humane digital globalisation. These are the battles ahead: Europe must provide itself with the means to carry them out, which is why the digital transition and the ecological transition are at the heart of the recovery plan and the new multi-annual financial framework. Of course, this does not call into question the Union's historical policies such as the common agricultural policy or the emblematic Erasmus programme. With regard to the latter, mentioned by several of you, including Mrs Racon-Bouzon, I welcome the fact that it will soon have an additional EUR 7 billion, even though it will now unfortunately have to operate without the United Kingdom. Yes, we are going to give ourselves the means to prepare for the future, and that is the sense of own resources that we must develop, whether it is the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, the digital tax or the tax on financial transactions mentioned by President Bourlanges, a mechanism that we have long initiated and which we must share as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what the European project means to us in view of the French Presidency, which will open next January. I will conclude by recalling an essential principle, namely that the European project is also a society project, based on principles and values on which we can never compromise anywhere in Europe: the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, freedom of expression and academic freedoms, the freedoms that have made us what we are, for ourselves but also in the eyes of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u117	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes without the right to reply. We're starting with the La République group on the move. Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u118	Pedopornography, drug trafficking, incitement to terrorism: in many cases, digital space is a space without laws or rights. What is not allowed in public space is, unfortunately, present on the Internet due to a lack of regulation and control. At present, states do not have the capacity to react, as Facebook, Twitter and others have exclusive control over their platforms. As private companies, these GAFAMs are free to ban anyone who does not meet their conditions of use. But it is at least surprising, I would say shocking, to note that Twitter has left and still leaves many alarming profiles active without intervening. In the face of such a situation, it is up to us to remind ourselves that national laws apply to all and that cyberspace cannot escape them. The implementation of the Digital Services Act should make a difference. On 15 December, the European Commission published this draft regulation to develop a new regulatory framework to put an end to the irresponsibility of digital giants. Thus, large platforms will be required to act quickly to remove any illegal content: hate speech, harassment, counterfeiting, use of copyrighted material, terrorist, discriminatory, paedophile content, or unveiling private images. In the absence of rapid and effective action, platforms will have to prove their lack of knowledge of the facts in order to avoid sanctions. This is a good first step, which reminds us of the need and urgency to build a sovereign Europe that guarantees fundamental freedoms, while protecting us from the protein threats we face. Minister, can you give us more details on France's position on the DSA?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u119	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u120	As you will certainly have noted, honourable Member, I have already mentioned this issue in my initial speech. Digital platforms must be responsible for the content they broadcast: contrary to what some claim, they cannot be seen as mere intermediaries who may disinterest themselves with content passing through their channels. On the contrary, they must assume their responsibilities in relation to such content in view of the significant risks to their users. In this context, we welcome the proposal last December by the committee for a Digital Services Act. This text, which will make it possible to update 20-year-old legislation, contains ambitious objectives that we share, considering that its provisions are in the right direction. We noted with satisfaction that the DSA does not limit the scope of the platform's obligations solely to measures to combat illegal content. It was indeed essential that the text apprehended the whole policy of moderation of the platforms, which is the case today. However, it seems to us that the text needs to be further improved on two points. Firstly, we want the national regulator to have sufficient powers to enable effective control and to ensure the involvement of the competent authorities of the country of destination, not just the country of origin. Secondly, with regard to content regulation, we pay particular attention to the online sales sector. France believes that specific obligations should apply to market places, which requires a legal framework adapted to the problems they pose. They may sell dangerous or illegal products whose information for consumers is sometimes incomplete or even non-existent. Subject to improvements being made to the DSA on these two points, we are of course in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u121	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u122	French fishermen were told that as early as Monday, 4 January, the British authorities would make available to them licences allowing their vessels to fish, as before Brexit, in English territorial waters of 6 to 12 miles – an area in which they should have free access to British waters. To date, more than half of the licences have not yet been issued, particularly in Boulogne-sur-Mer. This situation has left many of our vessels at the dock for two months, so much so that even the president of the National Committee for Maritime Fisheries and Marine Farming – CNPMEM – Olivier Lepreêtre – thinks of disarming his boat. I have no doubt about your multiple interventions to remedy this, both with the British Government and with Brussels, but I am obliged to note that London is, at least, not eager to honour its commitments. These British reluctances do not augur well for the negotiations which must begin now to define the future status of fishing zones and quotas after the July 2026 deadline. In this connection, I would like to confirm that it is out of the question for our fishermen that this type of agreement is renewable every year as the British wish, leading to permanent discussions. Under such conditions, the fisheries sector would lose all visibility in the medium and long term. Fishing companies would no longer be able to plan their investments – the purchase of new boats, for example – and to spread the depreciation. Apart from the licensing problem mentioned above, there is also an immediate need to resolve the issue of the 25% reduction in quotas for French fishing by 2026. Having been denied a licence for two months by the British, will French ships have to reduce their catch by 2021, that is to say, for only ten months? This is a vital and even survival issue for many boats. Our fishermen are waiting for your answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u123	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u124	When we referred to the fisheries provisions of the agreement, you yourself appreciated what we had obtained: access to all British waters in the 6-12 miles zone until June 2026, whether or not the species were concerned by the quotas; a gradual and limited reduction of quotas to about 25% until 2026, while the British demanded a rate of 80% until the last moment; the long-term preservation of access to the waters of the Anglo-Norman Islands – an area that I concede is more of my concern than yours. All this has been achieved. However, you are right to say that everything is not settled. We need to see the conversion of provisional licences into permanent access licences for all British fishing areas and for all our vessels as soon as possible. With the committee, we must therefore continue to act and maintain pressure on the British authorities on several points. We need to renegotiate TACs – total allowable catch – that are still provisional in order to gain readability, including for the current year. In order for the conditions of competition to be fair, we must also ensure that the standards – in particular the technical standards – are respected, which had not really been provided for in the agreement. Then we will have to anticipate beyond the five-and-a-half-year period. One thing I can assure you is that denial of access to British waters during the renegotiations after 2026 could be costly for our British partners in view of the compensatory and retaliatory measures already mentioned, which could go as far as suspending any economic and commercial partnership if necessary. We must be very vigilant and firm in this area. Believe that the Prime Minister, Secretary of State Clement Beaune and I are very attentive to all these matters, which I thank you for reminding us of the importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u125	The Republicans Group will ask the next two questions. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u126	A France suffers in silence. A France that rises early and does not count its hours, but dies slowly and in general indifference. This France is the one of our farmers whom we are talking about only to point their finger at them, to mistreat them or to disrespect them. This France, that of our origins, feeds the world. While the negotiations on the common agricultural policy which entered into force in 2023 are already well advanced, our farmers are concerned about its disastrous consequences for their farms, in a context where they are already affected by a cyclical crisis but also for structural reasons linked to the extra labour and tax costs. In my department of Haute-Loire, characterized by mountain farming, the survival of farms depends on two major commitments on your part: the maintenance of aids coupled with their current level; the strengthening of the ICHN – compensation for natural handicaps – and support for professional assets. As everyone knows, mountain farming is virtuous because it enables us to meet the climate challenge and offers healthy and quality products that meet consumers' expectations. The future of men, women and families lies in your hands, Minister, but it is the very face of our territories that risks being disfigured forever if these CAP aid goes down. What would become of our landscapes patiently maintained by the hand of man? What would become of agri-food industries, protected designations of origin – PDO – and quality labels? What would become of our local economy, tourism, jobs? Can we accept the future closure of classes, schools, shops and therefore the death of our villages? The real question is what we want for our agriculture and food. This is a real political choice that the Government will have to take and which, let us not be mistaken, will have an impact on future decades. One can wonder about steaks made with soy or strain cells. These are not products desired by the vast majority of French who, with the crisis of the covid -19, return to local productions and short circuits. France is the country of gastronomy, good food and good food. French producers have real know-how.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u127	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u128	Minister, can you commit yourself to doing everything you can to ensure that the 2023 CAP maintains the aid coupled to their current level, and that the ICHN is strengthened, better targeted at livestock...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u129	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...and that it takes into account professional assets?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u131	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u132	You are very concerned about the future of our farmers; I, too, by experience, by commitment, by history. I'm also very attached to landscapes. For my part, I believe that the CAP is not a policy of the past; It is a modern policy, which ensures the well-being of a completely respectable profession but also the preservation of our landscapes and our food security. This priority was reflected in the July 2020 budget negotiations, the agreement on the next multi-annual financial framework and the recovery plan which allowed the CAP budget to be maintained in value, whether it be the first or second pillar. This is a sign of the importance that the European Union continues to attach to a policy that has proved its worth and that we must support, especially in adversity, as we have done. It is assumed that the next CAP will be both greener, with the strengthening of cross-compliance, and more subsidiary, with each Member State drawing up its national strategic plan. In this context, mountain farming has its place because it helps to contribute to the economic development of rural areas, to preserve traditional know-how and to maintain landscapes. We are fighting so that the second pillar of the CAP, dedicated to rural development, can continue to help this type of agriculture in areas of fragile nature. ICHN will therefore be sustainable, which is essential to maintaining agricultural activities in these difficult territories. Upgraded by 80% between 2014 and 2019, ICHN will continue to do so during CAP 2023-2027. We are quite determined, the Minister of Agriculture first and foremost, to ensure that the specificities of mountain areas have the full attention of the Government because it is a vital necessity for territories like yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u133	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u134	The European Union has committed itself to a €750 billion recovery plan to deal with the consequences of the crisis caused by the covid-19. Unpublished, this plan obliges the European Union to borrow several hundred billion euros on the financial markets. France authorized the use of this common debt by a law promulgated on 8 February 2021. However, many issues – and not least – remain outstanding. While the Member States have agreed – not without difficulties – on a common debt, there are still many uncertainties as to how the European Union will be able to repay this debt. The financing of this loan remains to be defined, as it commits us until 2058 and repayments must begin from 2028. The Europe Agreement thus provides for the creation of new own resources to finance this loan. The suggested avenues remain vague: a mechanism for carbon adjustment at borders; a digital fee; a scheme for the exchange of emission allowances, possibly extended to the aviation and maritime transport sectors; a tax on financial transactions in addition to the new national contribution calculated on the basis of waste of non-recycled plastic packaging. Many of these tracks are real sea snakes of the European Union. How long have we been talking about a tax on financial transactions? While this resort to borrowing still requires the authorization of many national parliaments, we must strive to remove the too many uncertainties that still persist. Let us remember that the balance of the €100 billion French recovery plan is based on the €40 billion that France must receive as part of the European Recovery Plan. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] What proposals does the Government make to lift mortgages on the financing of this major European loan? What new resources does France intend to give priority to in this context?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u135	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u136	This essential recovery plan is at the service of the Union's strategic objectives that I have already mentioned: ensuring the climate and digital transition. Each national plan will thus have to include 37 per cent of climate spending and 20 per cent of digital spending. France has committed itself to two priorities: to allow the European Commission to lift the loan; submit our national recovery and resilience plan. On the first part, France was exemplary in approving the decision taken by the Commission and the Council. As regards the second, the Regulation establishing the Facility for Resilience Recovery, i.e. the possibility of financing, is now in force. We will notify our plan quickly, before the end of the month, in order to benefit as soon as possible from the funds allocated, in particular the 13% of our "loans allocated" envelope, which will amount to 5 billion euros, which will alleviate the need for financing of our own recovery plan. It's the blur, you say. For my part, I don't see any blur, maybe because we don't have the same glasses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u137	I don't have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u138	That's what makes the difference! There is no question of charging the French taxpayer, since commitments have been made for this plan to be financed by new resources. You say that you do not know what the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders will be when the timetable is known as this commitment will be made in June. The digital giant tax will be coordinated with the arrangements that will be made in the context of a future agreement with the United States, as the reflection on digital taxation has been revived with that country. This agreement should take place before the end of the year and allow international constraints to be articulated with the will of the Member States. Thanks to these mobilisations, it is not the taxpayers who will pay, but the players who want to benefit from the internal market and who do not currently pay the price. In addition to its financial efficiency, this initiative has the advantage of morality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u139	The next speaker is Mr Michel Castellani, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u140	My question concerns European regional policy or cohesion policy, in particular the Structural Investment Funds, in the context of the deployment of the European Recovery Plan. The European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF and the European Social Fund, the ESF, are known to be important levers for the regions. The multi-annual financial framework – MFF – for 2021-2027 is based on two main themes: smart growth and the green economy. We welcome this choice of development through ecology, which is enshrined in the Green Deal. We also note that, despite the 8% reduction in the overall financial volume of cohesion policy at European level and 5% at national level, the envelope allocated to Corsica has been maintained. Nevertheless, we find it harmful not to take into account the particularities of each State and territory. Cohesion policy should ensure better planning to accompany landlocked, mountainous or island regions, giving full effect to Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the TFEU. One additional difficulty, the new MFF comes in the current crisis context. The latter particularly affects certain territories, particularly those whose economy depends on the sectors at a standstill – tourism, to name but one. The upsurges raise concerns about the link between cohesion policy and recovery tools as well as over-centralised management: communities seem insufficiently involved in the process, the complexity of which is a problem. Minister, how do you intend to improve the situation on these points, to initiate the recovery more effectively and better integrate the peculiarities of the territories? I think in particular, it will not surprise anyone, the island character of Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u141	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u142	The agreement reached at the July European Council, which you mentioned, is positive for the French regions. We have managed to get an increase in our cohesion policy envelope, which will be around EUR 17 billion between 2021 and 2027, an increase of 3% over the previous period. The European Recovery Plan will also strengthen cohesion policy with the new React-EU instrument which complements the original scheme. As part of the preparation of the national recovery and resilience plan, which I mentioned earlier, we are ensuring that the recovery funds are properly linked to those of other European programmes, in particular cohesion policy funds. Indeed, for managing a region for some time, I know that the main issue is the proper absorption of resources, the ability to use them. It is not enough for the money to be on the table; it must then be spent efficiently and on time. The increase in the French envelope for 2021-2027 is due in particular to the maintenance of the so-called transitional region category, which corresponds to the situation in many French regions. We have also obtained that the specificity of our outermost regions continues to be recognised with a specific allocation. The priority of cohesion policy between 2021 and 2027 will be to help the European regions achieve their dual digital and environmental transition. This orientation must be part of regional choices. On the other hand, we have managed to make the terms of cohesion policy simpler and more flexible. I would add, although you may already know, that the French regions will also be able to benefit from a new European structural fund, the fund for a fair transition, which will enable the French territories to be accompanied towards carbon neutrality. This new tool complements the assistance provided to the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u143	Mrs Valérie Rabault, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u144	My question concerns the status of the French military which an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union could unfairly call into question. On 28 January, the Advocate General of the CJEU argued that certain activities of the armed forces, such as maintenance, supervision or permanence tasks, should be subject to the European Working Time Directive. These conclusions raise serious concerns for the functioning of our armed forces and the national gendarmerie, which – as you know better than anyone else – are organised on the principle of availability at all times and in all places. If monitored by the CJEU, it would be to severely limit the operational capacity of our armed forces and to reduce the effectiveness of intelligence, which is crucial to combating terrorism. Such a weakening of our armed forces would be unacceptable in view of France's major defence and security responsibilities and the unique role played by the French army in the European Union. However, these conclusions appear to be in complete contradiction with the European Treaties. Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union states that "national security remains the sole responsibility of each Member State". There is therefore no doubt that the organization of the armed forces is the sole and exclusive national competence. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] So, Minister, do you undertake, as the President of the Republic did on 18 October 2017 before the internal security forces, to enforce the European treaties and to defend the specificity of our armed forces so that they are excluded, totally and permanently, from the scope of the directive on working time? If so, why is the French rapporteur so shy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u145	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u146	I do not know who the French rapporteur is, but believe that on this subject the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs is quite determined and without any fear. You are right to raise this problem, which follows a Slovenian preliminary question on the application of the Working Time Directive to the armed forces. The procedure is under way. We will be intransigent on two points, which must not be opposed. We are committed to ensuring that the European Union has clear rules on working time and the protection of workers. This is an imperative, it is the spirit of Directive 2003/88/EC which we have supported and which we believe is essential. At the same time, it is out of the question that these rules undermine the specificities of certain activities, in particular those of defence. We are very clear and demanding on these two points and on the procedure. The Advocate General's conclusions cannot satisfy us and we cannot give him any reason, even if he takes into account the specificities of the French armed forces. So if the Court were to follow him, we would have to take strong initiatives to avoid this heavy disruption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u147	All right, thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u148	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u149	The health and economic crisis we are experiencing demonstrates the growing importance of regaining some form of sovereignty over European territory. Because of the current situation, we are thinking first of all, and rightly so, of the relocation of the drug industries, which will ensure the health autonomy of the continent. But we must also plan for the future and ensure better protection of our ports, which must become real openings for Europe. To this end, the Joint Action Group had submitted to the Government a proposal for the establishment of special economic zones as part of the recovery plan. This proposal would both combat the harmful economic effects of Brexit, revive our country's economy and decarbonize our industry to make it more competitive tomorrow. The British Prime Minister announced today, a few hours ago, the creation of eight free overseas ports by the end of 2021. These ports should benefit from advantageous tax and social rules. I have had the opportunity to ask the Government on numerous occasions about the opportunity to erect in a special economic zone the two large areas of the Hauts-de-France labeled "turnkey industrial sites" in particular the "major industries" zone of the port of Dunkirk. In fact, beyond the interest of attracting large-scale industry, which creates added value and jobs, Dunkerque can also position itself as a British forebear for service from continental Europe, with the United Kingdom remaining one of France's leading export customers. On a visit to Le Havre at the end of January, the Prime Minister announced the development of special economic zones along the Seine to respond to the free ports that the United Kingdom wants to create. The port of Dunkirk, given its geographical and strategic proximity to England, must also benefit from efficient economic and fiscal protection in order not to suffer the harmful effects of the creation of a logistic and industrial enclave at the gates of the European market. In view of these industrial and commercial challenges, which are crucial for France and Europe, how do you appreciate the opportunity to create special economic zones on the national territory, especially on the site of the great seaport of Dunkirk?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u150	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u151	I share your concerns, both from the practical point of view and from the point of view of economic dynamics and the protection of sovereignty. As you pointed out, the British government has announced the creation of eight free ports that will benefit from advantageous tax and social rules in order to attract foreign investment and trade flows – this is part of the risk of dumping that I mentioned in my speech at the end of the debate. Chairing the Interdepartmental Committee on the Sea, CIMER, in January, the Prime Minister announced that he would work with elected officials and parliamentarians to respond to this offensive without delay. Thinking is moving fast. The first is to develop duty-free sales – a fairly simple measure – to compensate for the UK's action in this area. Another approach: a reduction in port taxation has already been undertaken, giving rise to a number of exemptions. There are two other topics to be considered. The creation of new free zones is under consideration. It is all the more important to take action as many countries in the European Union have, as you know, begun to take action in this direction – I am thinking in particular of the Netherlands. In addition, a mission of reflection was entrusted to the CIMER to study this option, but also that of the special economic zones, based on tax incentives degressive over time and modulable according to ports and activities. Thus, in accordance with the Prime Minister's commitments, the project is open and involves many actors. I hope that its completion will allow to win back market shares, improving the port logistics but also the efficiency and dynamism of the customs arrangements. They are complicated to build because of the British's failure to prepare for the consequences of Brexit, which has been recalled by several speakers. In any case, as far as special economic zones and even free zones are concerned, I am quite prepared to work alongside you in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u152	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot, for the IDU and independent group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u153	I would like to address the issue of European defence ambitions. André Flahaut, the former Belgian defence minister, rightly said after the British's departure in 2020: "If the European Union wants to weigh on the international scene tomorrow to promote its values and vision, it must strengthen its credibility as well as its coherence on the military level. While Europeans have been terrifying for more than twenty years to know whether their defence policy should be based on NATO or on the European Union, the departure of the British, the permanent Atlanticists, must allow a movement towards a Europe of defence to be revived. The European Defence Fund is a first step that we welcome very favourably, but it cannot be enough. So, after Donald Trump's departure and while NATO's Secretary General was attending the European Council meeting last Friday, what place does Europe's strategic autonomy stand today? Should the exit of the British, a veto force in defence, not lead us to revive a true Europe of defence, which would allow us to weigh 27 geopolitically?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u154	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u155	I did not decline the progress made in the field of defence in the European Union over the past four years, but it is spectacular. I am thinking of the European Defence Fund, which is beginning to mean something, the European Peace Facility, permanent structured cooperation and the European intervention initiative. These are four key points that make today's Europe, in the field of defence, no longer has anything to do with Europe four years ago. This is not only due to the doubts that emerged during the four years of Trump administration about transatlantic solidarity and the future of defence cooperation between Europe and the United States, but also to the growing awareness by Europeans of the need for strategic autonomy, i.e. the ability to decide and the means to achieve their objectives. There is, I must say, a considerable step forward. We must continue in this direction, in a new context. In particular, we will have to prepare, by the middle of next year, two essential moments. First, the European Union decided at the European Council on 26 February last to draw up, under the French Presidency, the "strategic compass" whereby we will define our own choices and guidelines in the field of security and defence. At the same time, we must ensure a good link between this compass and the redefinition of NATO's strategic concept, which, I would remind you, is being debated. A think tank was mobilized on this issue, on which the President of the Republic had spoken in a rather frustrating manner. All these elements will be discussed. We will therefore have to define two distinct orientations: strategic autonomy within the framework of the European compass on the one hand, and the security and defence partnership within the framework of the Alliance on the other. This moment will, I believe, ensure a new transatlantic relationship while affirming European sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u156	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u157	While the economic and social consequences of the health crisis plunge millions of French people into poverty, the destruction of jobs is considerable and our country is in debt to deal with them, how come the Government has found nothing to say about the revelations of the consortium of journalists on tax evasion within the European Union itself? In the revelations of the OpenLux survey, we learn that 15,000 French people own accounts in Luxembourg, fleeing taxes and hence national solidarity. This concerns thirty-seven of the fifty richest families in France and three-quarters of the companies in CAC 40, through subsidiaries. In total, fraud and tax evasion cost French taxpayers 100 billion euros each year, twice the annual debt service, for which you want the French to make further efforts. We propose to introduce a universal tax to make those who flee tax pay the difference between what they pay where they left and what they should have paid if they had stayed in France. What do you have to say about this scandal? What are you doing to fight against? The Government's silence was complicit. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Finally, since the debate is about the European Union, when will we end the treaties rejected in 2005 by the French but still applied against their will? These treaties act as a straitjacket: they prohibit social and fiscal harmonisation, reducing the European Union to an area of unfair competition, in which the alternative offered to our industry is simply to sacrifice the social gains of employees or to relocate to countries more east of Europe, where work is poorly paid. There can be no question of continuing to undo France in order to make Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u158	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u159	I said earlier, and I believe you have heard me, that I want to make France by making Europe and make Europe by making France, because these are two aspects of the same sovereignty. I also raised the issue of patriotism. You are right to raise this issue. When we are part of the same internal market and share the same currency, it is essential that we deal with tax issues together. Just as social competition or dumping does not have a place in the Europe we want to build, the race at least so-called tax is not acceptable, nor tax evasion. That is why we want to gradually harmonise taxation whenever it is relevant, but also to promote transparency in tax matters in order to fight – I affirm this officially, in response to your inquiry – against all the phenomena of optimisation or tax evasion that undermine confidence in our single market, the confidence of our citizens in Europe and, ultimately, Europe itself. We are therefore very determined to make the most transparency in this area and to combat tax optimisation. An agreement was reached by amending the European directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, which provides for new obligations. This can contribute to the clarity and improvements that you and I want to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u160	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor for the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u161	I, in turn, would like to draw your attention to the difficulties that Brexit poses for the thousands of young French people wishing to carry out a student mobility or an internship in the United Kingdom. I have already had the opportunity to raise this issue when I presented an information report to the Committee on European Affairs last December on Erasmus+'s balance sheet and outlook. The UK was, until the 2017-2018 academic year, the first destination for French youth under the Erasmus+ programme, with more than 13,000 mobilitys completed. Despite the Brexit context, he remained in second place the following year, welcoming more than 11,500 young French people. However, as everyone knows and against all odds, the United Kingdom has decided to leave Erasmus+, the flagship programme for European integration, which has enabled 10 million young people to carry out mobility and thereby strengthen European identity, intercultural exchanges and multilingualism. Desiring to break with this programme, which was considered incompatible with the Brexit supporters' goal of withdrawal, the British Prime Minister announced the creation of a UK-specific exchange programme. Of course, only UK mobility students will be eligible for funding under this scheme. It is therefore not an alternative solution for young French people who wish to study in the United Kingdom. This decision obliges French students, apprentices and trainees to turn more to other English-speaking countries, such as Ireland, which welcomed more than 5800 French in 2018-2019, an increase of 22% compared to the previous year. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] So my question is: What solution do you intend to propose to these young people? Would it be possible, for example, to set up bilateral Franco-British bodies, such as the Franco-German University, which has been offering more than 180 binational and trinational courses for the past 20 years, or to facilitate twinning between universities on both sides of the English Channel, while encouraging student mobility through the payment of mobility grants?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u162	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u163	The UK's refusal to participate in the Erasmus+ programme is deeply regrettable. It was not necessary, since other non-EU European countries are participating in this major programme. This refusal is the result of a political choice: in a certain way, the British want to assert their sovereignty – even if I am not sure that this is a good idea of sovereignty. As with many issues related to the new relationship between Europe and the United Kingdom, however, much remains to be clarified and clarified. In the immediate future, the UK's withdrawal from the Erasmus+ programme will not result in a sudden halt to trade, since all the funding validated before 2020 will be deployed. We look forward to learning more about the Turing programme to which you referred and which was announced by the United Kingdom as being to take over from the Erasmus+ programme, even though we know that it will be less comprehensive in terms of financial aid, mobility capacity or university cooperation, and that it will be addressed not only to European actors but to the whole world, because it will be part of the "Britain Global" project. At the same time, I note that some UK universities will introduce specific mobility schemes, providing for exemption from student fees. The United Kingdom remains a member of the Bologna process, which ensures that university curricula are homogenised. We are ready to strengthen our university research cooperation with the United Kingdom – I mentioned these perspectives after the general discussion – and to find alternative solutions with universities. Mr. Dumont stressed the need to strengthen our relationship with Ireland. I confirm that we are not neglecting this possibility. It is important to show that Erasmus+ remains a considerable, very dynamic programme and that plays a very important role in encouraging the mobilisation of young people in favour of Europe. We will therefore endeavour to promote new forms of mobility from France to the United Kingdom and vice versa, and, in a complementary way, to consolidate exchanges with Ireland, which is quite willing to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u164	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u165	I want to put the important issue of the cancellation of public debts held by the ECB on the job – a matter that is currently being discussed throughout Europe. In everyone's view, the European recovery plan is insufficiently equipped to deal with the crises we are going through. We therefore need to find new means of financing. However, since 2015, the ECB has been pursuing a policy of redemption of public debts, otherwise called "quantitative easing": to remain in the grip of the Maastricht Treaty, which prohibits direct financing of States by the ECB, the ECB buys sovereign debts from banks on the secondary market. To date, the ECB holds €2,500 billion in public debt, which we owe to ourselves in some way and which, according to the liberal dogma, will have to be repaid either through tax increases or through austerity policies. We cannot accept that, given our enormous imperatives in terms of social and economic reparation and ecological reconstruction. We therefore call for the cancellation of this public debt, which would give us considerable leverage and allow us to inject at least 15% of prepandemic GDP into the economy. Such an action is perfectly feasible, in so far as a central bank is not a creditor or an ordinary debtor: if it cancels a debt it holds, no burden would be transferred to anyone, since its liability is not payable by anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u166	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same movements]] We consider this cancellation to be a prerequisite for the reconstruction of the country and we would like to hear from the Government on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u168	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u169	You are right: a debate is under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u170	Ah! And where?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u171	You are contributing to this by your words. I will just make three remarks at this point. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Same movements]] First of all, as the President of the ECB, Mrs Lagarde, pointed out, and as you yourself pointed out, cancelling public debt is not possible under the terms of the European Treaties, which strictly prohibit the monetary financing of States. However, this rule has been introduced in order to avoid jeopardizing the ECB, to which such a measure would inflict enormous losses. We would thus take the risk of undermining the very credibility of this institution, which underpins the entire European monetary system. You are free to speak, as I am of my answer. Secondly, such a decision could seriously undermine confidence in the Member States whose debt would be cancelled, and finally in the Union itself: by not repaying its debt, it is its own credibility that is potentially questioned. A simple cancellation would have much stronger consequences. Finally, I am not sure if I understand the immediate need for such a measure, since interest rates are very low, it is possible to finance the real economy at a lower cost. In any case, the debate is so far premature,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u172	Say it, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u173	... the priority is first to support activity and then to restore growth when health constraints can be removed. This is what we are doing through the mobilisation of the €750 billion European Recovery Plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u174	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u175	Crisis situations can emerge as the best as the worst. The European Union in the face of the covid had the opportunity to strengthen its governance by innovating in its practices and affirming its cohesion. In this respect, joint borrowing is a real step forward, as is the extension of its scope to health, but this initiative must not mask its structural dysfunctions. The Union must be deeply renewed, both in its institutions and in its practices. Legal play with AstraZeneca, operation of Frontex, dismissal of European diplomats by Moscow: the avanties she suffered reveal a crying need for renewal of her project on a more federalist and democratic basis. We need real European solidarity if we do not want the Union to disappear. Slowness, biased contracts, opacity: all these ingredients still allow thousands of companies to avoid tax by expatriating to Luxembourg in 2021. The newspaper Le Monde has revealed that nearly 15,000 French people own companies in the Grand Duchy for a total of at least 100 billion euros of assets, or 4% of French GDP: they would be more numerous than Italians and Germans combined, and even than Luxembourgers themselves! It is only time to make Europe more transparent. Let us take advantage of the findings of this global crisis to review the question of tax harmonisation within the European Union, because the urgency is to counter this dumping which is detrimental to the financial health of the states: the management of European revenue and the budget should be the subject of further discussion. You have referred to the Treaties, but I think it is a long time to review them at this time of pandemic and thus lead to a reform of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This will allow for a strengthening of the single market and a level playing field, and will necessarily lead eventually to the harmonisation of certain taxes. It would also be time to raise the question of the conditions for applying the unanimity rule in the Council. Mr Moscovici had pledged to carry out this reform... What about it? Mr Minister, what is France's position on tax harmonisation in the European Union, does it intend to launch a new dynamic on this subject when it takes up the rotating presidency in January 2022?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u176	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u177	I have already answered in part, Mrs Cariou, when Mr Quatennens addressed relevant questions concerning taxation, in particular the fight against tax optimisation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u178	The answer was not very specific.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u179	...but I will complete my remarks. I think that tax matters at European Union level have never been so numerous on the table, and this is largely the result of France's commitment. I referred to the introduction of a digital tax, which we were the first to defend and which is now being defended by twenty-five of the 27 Member States. I have indicated in a previous response how this process will continue. With regard to the tax on financial transactions, and I will respond in this way to President Bourlanges' introductory statement, I would point out that France has been putting this issue on the table for several years, that it has been at the initiative of enhanced cooperation in order to circumvent the constraints of the unanimity rule and that Portugal intends to revive it during its current presidency of the European Union. And then there will be the meeting of the French Presidency anyway. The result of this tax on financial transactions, which we have long hoped for, would represent a new resource of its own which is very timely for the European Union. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges applauds]] On the other hand, with regard to the harmonisation of corporate tax rules, we hope that discussions will resume to create a common base, in parallel with the developments expected at the international level. But Europe must take initiatives and the French Presidency could be an opportunity to do so. However, you have pointed out that decisions on taxation are adopted unanimously, and this has long been a difficulty on such a politically sensitive subject. It is thus common for a State to use the veto that allows it to exercise the rule of unanimity: I regularly attend to blockages on these subjects. In view of this situation, the revision of the Treaties, without being a taboo, is not a short-term perspective, and moreover subject to many hazards, the other option being to move forward in the current framework by trying to move forward to 27 but at the same time resorting to enhanced cooperation. That is what France will try to do during its presidency, as the Portuguese Presidency is preparing to follow the same course, in good harmony with our country. In any case, you can count on our presidency so that the European Union can move forward on both the question of social dumping and that of tax dumping.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u180	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u181	The next item is the debate on the necessary changes in the air sector in the face of economic and environmental challenges. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u182	Just a year ago, under the blows of a virus we barely knew, the world's air fleet was brutally grounded. A new development after decades of continuous growth and technological innovation allowed by the progress of globalisation, airlines around the world were forced to think about an unexpected question: where to store their aircraft, at which airports, at which airfields around the world? As a result of the drastic reduction in flights, both on domestic and international routes, the entire sector was quickly placed under respiratory assistance, and since then it has survived only thanks to the oxygen supplied by the public authorities. This protracted health crisis has profoundly disrupted our way of life, consumption, work and movement, and will undoubtedly have consequences in the medium to long term for the air sector, which is now facing structural economic and environmental challenges. From an economic point of view, first of all, the air transport sector, as well as the aeronautics sector, are truly breathless. The health crisis of the Covid-19 has given them a historic blow, they are facing financial difficulties that could put their survival at stake, especially since no return to air exchanges at the pre-crisis level before 2024 at best, or even 2029 at worst. In France, more than 1300 industrial enterprises, 300,000 direct or indirect jobs, 58 billion euros in turnover and a surplus trade balance of 34 billion euros which could thus go into smoke. From the contractors to the subcontractors, all these companies are currently in a very worrying situation, dismissals could affect almost half of the aeronautics employees in the Occitanie region within a few months...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u183	And in New Aquitaine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u184	Yes, it is. In addition, they could lead to the acquisition of certain companies by foreign investors seeking to conquer new markets or to take hold of high-level skills. One year after the start of the crisis, therefore, is the question of adapting emergency measures to this long-lasting situation, that is, of our ability to get out of it without jeopardizing the know-how of this industry of excellence and its technological innovation capabilities. However, while the emergency arrangements – state-guaranteed loans and long-term partial activity – have prevented short-term defaults, they unfortunately seem inadequate in the medium and a fortiori long-term because of their weight for our public finances. Mr. Deputy Minister for Transport, will the state be able to extend these emergency arrangements until 2024 or even 2029? What mechanisms does the Government have in place to move forward smoothly? Beyond these emergency measures, our fellow citizens ask us to thoroughly review our public policies to preserve employment and skills. It is now vital to plan together a large-scale industrial conversion of a large number of jobs in the aviation and aviation sectors in order to avoid too high an increase in unemployment. The Mouvement Démocratique (MODEM) and related democrats Group is asking you, Mr Minister Delegate, to study the possibility of creating an ambitious mechanism, financed by the State and by the regions, which would allow employees to be detached to sectors of the future such as industrial robotics, mobilitys of the future or artificial intelligence: for example, an aeronautical engineer from Airbus in Toulouse could be seconded for a fixed period of time to a research centre whose aim is to speed up the robotics and digitisation necessary for the sector, or to a local start-up innovative in the field of mobility of the future, artificial intelligence or other. Similarly, as is already the case in Switzerland, the public authorities could accompany the airline pilots in their conversion to the railway or create bridges for them to come to the ranks of the air and space army. You will have understood this, Minister: we welcome the strategy of whatever costs and its declination in the plan to support aeronautics, which represents an effort of more than EUR 15 billion in aid, investment and guaranteed loans, but we draw your attention to the necessary structural changes in the aviation sector and in the aviation sector in the face of these major economic challenges. From the ecological point of view: just like other modes of transport, we will not fool ourselves, the air is at a turning point because the transport sector as a whole is the only one in France whose greenhouse gas emissions have increased since the 1990s. It is now the first issuing sector in France. This dynamic is fundamentally contrary to the climate objectives we have set ourselves and we, like most Europeans, must rectify our trajectories. But let us not forget that emissions from the transport sector come mainly from the road sector,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u185	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u186	... which represented 94% in 2019! The air sector accounts for less than 4%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u188	But, like others, he must of course participate in the national effort to transform our society in depth so that our country can achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. And, as in many other sectors of activity, air transport stakeholders, whether airlines, airports or the upstream aviation industry, are already in the throes to accelerate the ecological and energy transition. This, let us not be mistaken, has already begun for several years thanks to continued growth in the incorporation of sustainable biofuels into aircraft and the development of hybrid and electric propulsion aircraft. In just a few years, small electric planes of a dozen seats will fly away from all our airports – of those who will remain with us at any rate –;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u189	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u190	...then, it will be the turn of the regional ultra-sobres and hydrogen powered devices from 2030; Finally, the successor of the A320, the world's best-selling commercial aircraft, will define the new global aviation standards from an environmental point of view starting in 2035. The Green Aviation Revolution has already taken off... How, then, can we understand the strenuousness of the air sector and the restrictive measures envisaged, in particular by the Climate and Resilience Bill resulting from the work of the Citizen Climate Convention? The four articles of this text on the subject are in fact only prohibitions and obligations, although we are well aware that incentives are often much more effective, both from an environmental point of view and in terms of acceptability and social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u191	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u192	We could have hoped to have learned the lessons of what triggered in 2018 the Yellow Gilets movement... Rather than banning certain air routes and restricting the extension of airports, let us encourage manufacturers and companies to invest even more massively in the ecological and energy transition to better mesh and unblock our territories. Let us not be fooled: today's bans will hinder the development of tomorrow's plane. The latter could, however, make it possible to create new cross-border and regional links in the territories, which is not always permitted by rail transport. By attacking air transport, and therefore the aeronautics that are France's pride, we are going against our strategic and economic interests and we are taking the risk of disastrous consequences in terms of sovereignty. We are not only about to lose our ability to move freely from one point to another in the territory, but we are also putting at risk the preservation of the valuable jobs and know-how of our industrial fabric. Some of these measures are all the more incomprehensible because they are decided unilaterally, without any harmonisation at European and international level, with the underlying risk that the players in the sector will relocate their production or turn to other airport hubs, without contributing to the ecological transition that we want. Our role as a policy must be to set a course and vision for this sector. But the only vision that seems to emerge in the public debate is to force the aerospace sector to put the key under the door. Let us not fall into the ease and search for the perfect scapegoat. On the contrary, let us be ambitious as were Louis Blériot, Jean Mermoz or the founders of Aerospace. We deserve it, because Toulouse, the Occitanie region, New Aquitaine and France as a whole are the cradle of this industry: we saw the robbing of pioneers and the birth of revolutionary civil programs such as the Concorde, the Beluga or the A380. I am convinced that we have all the technical capabilities and human intelligence to become the capital nation and the global pioneers of green aviation; Let's do what we can. Let us not miss embarkation, then take off, towards this radiant future and let us not let other countries delight us with this enormous potential. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, SOC and LT groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, the situation in the air sector is urgent from both an economic and an ecological point of view. Mr Minister Delegate, while France will take over the presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats urges you to put these crucial issues on the agenda of the forthcoming European discussions. We measure the chance to have a pilot on the benches of ministers and we therefore count on your support and ambition to get a more solidary, sovereign and sustainable air transport in France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u193	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u194	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Lagleize that I find myself totally in his remarks; I thank him for holding them. Initiating a debate on the necessary changes in the air sector in the face of environmental and economic challenges is a perilous undertaking for the majority. This afternoon's debate will demonstrate the importance, but also the extreme fragility of the air sector, as the draft law on combating climate disruption and strengthening resilience to its effects, which the Government will submit to us in three weeks' time, is likely to break our aviation sector and prevent any virtuous development of the industry. In a way, I would like to thank the Dem Group – which wanted this moment of reflection on the air sector – for putting the Government in trouble. I will start with two questions. What is the date of application of section 36 of the bill, which prohibits any air service at less than two thirty hours from Paris? Answer: "the last Sunday of March of the year following that of the enactment of the law"; or, if the law is promulgated in 2021, the last Sunday of March 2022. Second question: when are the first "clean" planes expected? Mr. Lagleize said earlier: at best not before 2035, as far as prototypes are concerned. In short, the Dem Group – like that of the Republic on the move – votes on Article 36, deletes eight domestic routes, condemns 3 million passengers to find another solution – whose ecological benefit, due to the difficulties of modal postponement, is not established – and proposes us as the only alternative solution to wait until 2035. No, ladies and gentlemen, prohibition has never been a solution. We all want to fight climate degradation; make this choice without waiting for 2035. As Mr Lagleize has just pointed out, an environmental roadmap has already been drawn up by the air sector, based on the renewal of the fleet by new generation aircraft and the incorporation of sustainable alternative fuels. In the short term, and before 2035, a major railway plan is to develop intermodal platforms and extend LGVs, high-speed lines, to unserved areas. The two regions most affected by Article 36 are New Aquitaine and Occitanie: the air sector accounts for 170,000 jobs – almost half of the 350,000 jobs in France –, 22% of industrial employment in both regions, and 1100 companies, alongside Airbus, Dassault and Safran Landing Systems, provide internationally recognized subcontracting functions. Many, especially in the Paris region, have forgotten this: Article 36 will have an impact on 70000 direct and indirect jobs. New Aquitaine and Occitanie will be the first to bear the social cost. Ironie: these two regions, apart from Bordeaux and Montpellier, do not and will not have LGV since the Republic in motion and MODEM have frozen the continuation of the project LGV Sud-Ouest which we socialists had supported. By 2035, we will have clean and carbon neutral aircraft. Industrialists are moving towards a new aircraft architecture, a new, smaller engine, which will be placed at the rear with increased propellant efficiency, hydrogen-powered aircraft and new fuels. But again, the Government is doing nothing to encourage their use. Their cost is three to four times higher than those using kerosene; What are we doing to promote its use? Nothing. The Government is about to destabilize the air sector at the worst moment: in 2020, Airbus lost 7 billion euros and the Air France-KLM group 11 billion. There are 80 billion losses at European level and 315 billion at global level; You know what this means for air construction companies. You are announcing aids, including for Air France, but they are swallowed up by deficits even before they are paid. In addition, you are doing nothing to avoid some calamitous choices from our national company, which withdraws, for example, from many destinations – such as Biarritz – to impose its subsidiary low cost Transavia, which counts in its fleet only Boeing aircraft and not a single Airbus. Minister Delegate, the Government is about to destabilize this sector when no country is following you, and you are doing so by ignoring that the transfer of flights will, depending on the regions, be to foreign airports such as Bilbao or Frankfurt, which will also entail additional carbon costs. You do so when this sector is of high scientific density, employs 35,000 researchers, is one of the first exporters and provides a territorial network of SMEs. You know that, since you are from the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, which, like Occitanie, has an exceptional mesh size. [[Applause on the SOC, IDU and LT benches]] But after all, our country is used to sitting on sectors that work well, so why change? As Mr Lagleize said, we are at a turning point. The provisions that will be proposed to us in three weeks can put down our aviation industry. We can also bounce back and offer a true future for a more virtuous, environmentally friendly and job-protective aviation sector. But this requires political courage, a true discourse and the mobilization of social forces, including trade unions; For my part, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u195	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u196	For nearly a year now, air transport has been going through a health crisis: most flights are stopped, airports are empty and the sector's prospects are clearly uncertain. Air France-KLM announced a net loss of 7.1 billion in 2020 and a 59% decrease in sales compared to 2019. Recall that the aeronautical sector is the first French export sector; With the epidemic, it's the fall: 45% decline in exports in aeronautics. It is all our country's foreign trade that is at risk. The aviation industry in France represents 1,300 companies and 300,000 direct or indirect jobs. The entire ecosystem supports many households and contributes to the energization of the territories. The situation is fragile and unstable: we must react quickly. The economic challenge is compounded by the ecological challenge: air transport is responsible for 2.5% of CO emissions and 5% of global warming. In recent years, emissions from the sector have been steadily increasing, but the covid-19 epidemic has led to a 56% reduction in emissions, thus contravening the importance of air traffic in the creation of CO and the positive effect of its decrease on air quality. The unprecedented crisis in the air sector therefore leads us to rethink the sector, which must better control its environmental impact: it is an indispensable condition for preserving the acceptability of this mode of transport, without which it will not be able to achieve sustainable development. Thus, the expected economic recovery for the sector calls for an acceleration of the ecological transition in our country and throughout the world. The aviation sector is a strategic sector for our country and has a central role to play. The crisis must not undermine the excellence of our industry, but must enable it to reinvent itself and contribute to the goals of sustainable development. In this sense, the Government has pulled out heavy artillery: €15 billion in aid, investment, loans and guarantees to try to save the sector. This sum must not only be an infusion but must also allow the process to be transformed into a deep one. In the future, we know that additional budgets will be needed to invest in cleaner energy such as hydrogen or electricity. In 2019, the then minister of transportation, Elizabeth Borne, presented us with the national strategy for air transportation, setting a medium-term course in 2025. In the face of the health and economic crisis, as well as environmental challenges, I wonder whether this strategy is still relevant and achievable. The climate and resilience bill, which we will be looking at in the near future, will help lay the sector on a new basis. It is essential to rethink air transport by integrating our sustainable development goals. In this regard, hydrogen, the green fuel of the twenty-first century, has many hopes. The Government wants to support this sector with a €7 billion plan by 2030. As of February 2020, sixty-two research and development projects were selected for this purpose for a total amount of 376 million. In the Centre-Val de Loire region, five winners have been nominated by the State. The Action Together Group welcomes this acceleration of support for the hydrogen sector. But given that other countries – such as Germany, China or Japan – are investing in this energy, it is essential to pursue European initiatives to develop it. The necessary investments are indeed colossal: alone, we will not succeed. Can you, Minister Delegate, share with us the discussions that are under way and the next few days? Our goal must be to make Europe the world leader in hydrogen. However, there are still many uncertainties, notably as regards storage, airport structures and security. Let us quickly find answers to these questions! We cannot be late in this strategic sector because, despite the crisis, we must strengthen our position as a leader in the aviation sector. In conclusion, let us make the health crisis an opportunity for the transition of the aviation industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u197	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u198	According to Alexandre de Juniac – the current Director General of IATA, the International Air Transport Association – the covid-19 crisis is the worst crisis in aviation history, far from the events of 11 September 2001 or the 2009 economic crisis. IATA estimates that global demand for air transport fell by 65.9 per cent in 2020, resulting in a total net loss of $118.5 billion for the sector, despite the temporary rebound of June and July 2020, as a result of de-defining policies. In addition, the resumption of air traffic will not be rapid, with the return to pre-crisis levels expected in 2024. The French flag, already fragile before the health crisis, is expected to lose EUR 4 billion in 2020. In the context of this unprecedented crisis, the main challenge for most airlines was to have access to sufficient liquidity to hold during an episode that nails planes that still require maintenance at significant fixed costs. To meet this need for cash, companies have found internal responses such as non-reimbursement of banknotes transformed into assets, redundancies, reduction of fixed structural costs, renegotiation with aircraft leasers, or borrowing. However, these responses were not sufficient and public aid was needed. In particular, historical actors such as Air France-KLM, IAG or Lufthansa would not have been able to survive the crisis of the covid-19 without the massive public assistance provided by the governments, for example French and Dutch. The objective of competitiveness and environmental objectives are unanimously shared: they have been incorporated by the Government into the 2021 Finance Bill. It is now important to know whether the State's clear and sequenced plan is on the road. It aims first of all to regain profitability, as the incumbent companies suffer from a lack of competitiveness of their short and medium-haul flights compared to the low cost players who have seen their market share increase over the last ten years. It is likely that, as a result of this crisis, the large low cost companies will continue to grow internally and externally, notably by buying back the assets of the companies in difficulty to conquer the valuable take-off slots of the major airports, like what Ryanair did in Marseille, Bordeaux or Toulouse in 2019. Low cost companies will also continue their strategy of developing indirect flights without bearing the constraints of a hub and connecting model. Even beyond Europe, they are beginning to form partnerships with long-haul companies, which poses a direct threat to the hubs of historic companies. This rise of the actors of the low cost to the detriment of the historical actors is not neutral: it can have consequences on the economic and political sovereignty of France, as the report of the Senate of 30 April 2020, which recalls the organisation of an air bridge with China ensuring the supply of medical equipment to the country as well as the repatriation of more than 15,000 French blocked abroad. The question of the competitiveness of historical actors vis-à-vis low-cost actors therefore joins that of national sovereignty. The example of Italy, whose historic operator, Alitalia, had had to be placed under guardianship in 2017, shows what the future can reserve for us if nothing is done. The transformation of the aircraft's economic model must be continued with the aid of the recovery plan as regards the medium-haul, because it is on this market share that competition with the low-cost companies is the most fierce. Historical actors must no longer conceive their own low cost subsidiaries as an instrument primarily defensive on their own soil, but project themselves outside their home country by opening up bases in Europe. At the same time, public authorities can be more alert to block mergers of companies that undermine competition in the market. It will then be necessary to make the air sector crisis the happy source of an ecological change. The sector accounts for 6% of global CO emissions according to the Shift Project report released on May 27, 2020. Carbon-neutral air transport is possible by reducing aviation greenhouse gas emissions by 5% per year by 2025 compared to 2018. This objective will be achieved by combining technical and regulatory levers. Technically, the involvement of all actors is necessary on three points: the research work of manufacturers to build less polluting aircraft, optimisation of air routes to consume as little fuel as possible, and finally the use of biofuels or hydrogen. Public policies should promote these developments through fiscal incentives by identifying investment projects that could be specifically supported in the context of the recovery. Reasoned incentives for sobriety must also be stepped up with the help of the public authorities. The reduction of air routes for which a train alternative exists in less than four and a half hours for journeys with or without connections, as is already planned for the Bordeaux and Toulouse lines, goes in the right direction, as well as imposing a minimum rate of filling the aircraft before giving them permission to operate. Colleagues, the covid-19 epidemic is a historic opportunity to emerge from an inefficient air model that, while balancing the margins of our historical operators, causes a continuous increase in traffic. Circumstances call for a return to an assumed strategy of the State to accompany the air sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u199	Dear colleague, we must conclude!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u200	It would aim to protect our historical players in compliance with the rules of European competition, to regulate the aggressive development of low cost companies, and to foresee what the air transport of tomorrow will be compatible with our country's climate objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u201	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u202	Aviation alone accounts for two thirds of the deterioration in the French industrial trade balance for the year 2020. After the historic rebound in sales of aircraft and engines in 2019, for 65 billion euros, we are facing a drop in deliveries of an unprecedented scale. In 2020, they decreased by more than 45% to $35 billion. Companies such as Airbus, Safran, Thales and Dassault had managed to create about 12,000 jobs by March 2020, but the reduction in air traffic and the reduction in orders have led to the loss of more jobs than all the jobs created in the last ten years. With the addition of subcontractors, there are almost 14,000 jobs abolished. With these redundancies, unique know-how disappears, while they should be kept on French soil. I am thinking of the employees of Aubert and Duval, specialist in state-of-the-art metallurgy, in Pamiers, those of Aluminium Sabart, in Tarascon-sur-Ariège, or Mecaprec in Lavelanet. The sector is one of the main innovation lines in France; the State should not abandon it as is currently the case. Redundancies are increasing. The challenges announced in the Government's stimulus plan are the ecological transition, the preservation of our know-how, and the safeguarding of national jobs. If I stick to what I see in my department, these objectives are far from being achieved: on the contrary, there is an increase in redundancies. Threatening developments were emerging for the sector before the crisis, either because of the dangerous strategies of non-European purchases in a mono-source situation on the part of the originators, or because of the uncovered incentives to relocate from the latter to their sub-contractors. The conditionality of aid has in no way referred to the objectives I have mentioned, yet without reference to these conditions, the Government will leave jobs to third countries. The largest aluminium smelter in Europe, capable of supplying our industries with the metals necessary for aircraft construction, is located in France, in Dunkirk. All we have to do is take advantage of it: we have to stop importing from the United States, which we could produce in France. I am also thinking of the recycling of titanium, which would also reduce the impact of air transport on the environment. The average life span of an aircraft has increased from 31 to 26 years. In the long run, these are all planes that will be left empty on the tarmac – and there are already many – while they could be recycled. There are only two recycling companies in France: we believe that we need to invest in this sector and anticipate the dismantling of hundreds of aircraft, which would also support and develop an essential sector. Following the path of future technologies requires supporting all innovations carried out by national companies. However, the practical implementation of the Aero Plan measures is left to the hands of the major groups who seek to reduce the costs more and more to distribute surplus to their shareholders, instead of a real industrial strategy dictated by the public authority which alone is able to defend national interests, relocation and employment, up to the challenges and above all ecological planning. We are told that air transport is a sector of the future, in particular through the development of hydrogen. The Aero Plan of the Recovery Plan devotes EUR 1.5 billion to this, but this technology requires a considerable investment in research and development to produce and deliver hydrogen. Today, technologies for the production of green hydrogen on a very large scale are not being developed. The production of hydrogen by electrolysis requires a huge amount of energy: to fly the aircraft from and to Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle, in 2018, would have required the energy of 5000 square kilometres of wind turbines, i.e., approximately, the area of the Ariège department. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The energy issue and the issue of green electricity generation that respects the environment are major challenges in the coming years. The air sector is evolving, but with or without hydrogen, there will be no successful energy transition without a sobriety effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u203	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u204	The crisis of the covid-19 came to darken the cloudless sky of the aviation sector. The contraction of tourism and, more generally, of economic activity and trade has brought to the ground the vast majority of the air fleet, which has tarnished the prospects of an entire sector. At home, in Occitanie, the true bastion of the aviation industry, the consequences are heavy. For Airbus first of all: following the decline in deliveries and gross orders, the group was forced to announce, last June, a restructuring plan. Other industrial giants, such as Safran, Thales, and Dassault, which are part of the sector's dynamism, have also been forced to adapt their production to the context of the health crisis. Among the victims are also SMEs and subcontractors of these large companies, indirectly affected by the reduction in the volume of order books – many of them are in my department. For them, the situation is all the more critical as many of them have been in debt to upgrade and purchase equipment or machines to keep pace with the rise in recent years. Locally, the shock is hard to take. The aviation industry has been one of the main engines of growth for several years, if not the main engine of growth in the territory. Many companies and companies in the service, hotel and tourism sectors are indeed dependent on air-related prosperity and are currently lacking prospects. These economic difficulties are not trivial. They translate into job losses for our fellow citizens, and a worrying rise in insecurity. Fortunately, support mechanisms have been put in place by the Government both for the air sector and, more generally, for the maintenance of employment. They were complemented by welcome measures of support from local and regional authorities. I am thinking in particular of the action taken by the Occitanie region, which announced, at the beginning of July, a supplementary plan of EUR 100 million for the sector, of which EUR 35 million was allocated for training and the preservation of skills, and EUR 43 million to support the diversification of subcontracting and the development of green technologies. These support from the state and the region are essential to preserve the state-of-the-art know-how and skills that make our territories rich. These experienced and skilled jobs will enable the sector to bounce back and face the many challenges ahead. The first, and not the least, is its environmental impact. Prior to the crisis, aircraft emissions of greenhouse gases accounted for almost 5 per cent of total emissions. With the expected increase in the number of passengers at the time of recovery, this figure is expected to increase. At a time when society as a whole is called upon to contribute to the environmental effort, the air sector must also make its transformation. However, care must be taken to provide it with a satisfactory legal framework, and on this subject, I agree with the concerns expressed by my colleagues regarding the climate and resilience bill. In order to reconcile economic growth and respect for the environment, air transport will have to face new technical and technological challenges. They are within reach of an industry that has always sought to exceed limits. Moreover, the environmental performance of air transport has already improved. Between 2000 and 2019, improved aircraft energy efficiency resulted in an average 1.5% annual decrease in air traffic-related unit CO emissions. The whole sector needs to continue its efforts. This is a condition for improving the societal acceptability of the development of air transport. There are many avenues: the development of biofuels, increased research on green hydrogen, and the first electrical propulsion projects are all positive signals. Large industrial groups and equipment manufacturers have the means and resources to develop state-of-the-art solutions. I am convinced, however, that we will only achieve real progress if we bring the whole sector, including SMEs and ITEs. The most innovative solutions will not necessarily come from the largest companies. As such, CORAC, the Council for Civil Aviation Research, has a key role to play in synchronising research and technology transfer efforts, but also in ensuring that the whole industrial fabric benefits from the EUR 1.5 billion provided for under the France Recovery Plan. Deputy Minister, could you provide an initial assessment of CORAC's calls for projects? How many projects have been proposed? How many were retained? What amounts are distributed in 2020? [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC, UDI-I and FI groups]] While waiting to develop the aircraft of the future, let us not lose sight of the fact that the priority must remain to support an industrial fabric in great difficulty, and the thousands of jobs that depend on it in all our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u205	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u206	This debate on the future of the air sector is welcome. But the five minutes given to us cannot allow us to analyse the systemic nature of the challenge facing the sector. We are all aware that the pandemic has not only struck the air sector in the way of a simple cyclical crisis, however brutal it may be, and that it would be sufficient only to guarantee the means of an effective recovery; It questions in depth the meaning of our economic model, the climatic and human consequences of the internationalisation of trade and passenger transport, and the scale of the revolutions to be carried out so as not to rush into the next wall tomorrow even faster. By its specificities, by the fact that its development is intimately linked to the capitalist logics of profitability, internationalization and acceleration of trade, the air sector is undoubtedly one of the best indicators of the revolutions that our societies will have to lead in the coming decades. Not entering this field of global and systemic analysis is, in my view, already condemning myself for failing to respond in an informed manner to the problems that the air sector is going to face. Thus, if we focus on internal and European air links, we need to consider the logic behind the whole transport policy in recent years. For the air, should we retain anything other than the systematic privatisation and competition of the companies in order to lower prices, lower the social standards of the employees, with the only benefit of the spectacular development, with the infusion of public aid, of the low cost companies, champions of social and tax dumping? Has that made it a policy of transportation and air transport, Minister? I don't believe it. If, on the issue of the sector's greenhouse gas emissions, which account for between 2.5 and 5 % of global emissions according to the criteria for analysis, between 3 and 4 % of the emissions from the transport sector in France, we focus solely on whether it is necessary unilaterally to abolish internal or international links, or on the contrary to rely solely on improving the energy efficiency of the appliances to adjust to climate objectives, will that be enough to make a transport and air transport policy for decades to come, ladies and gentlemen? I don't believe it. If, on the industrial and service side of the aviation and aviation sector, which weighs heavily in France, with its 350,000 jobs, the answer is only to know how many of the 65,000 jobs directly threatened in the last year will be saved by accompanying unconditional public aid, or worse, under the simple condition of returning to the profitability of the groups, will this make a genuine public air transport policy for the years to come? I don't believe it. If I say that, it is because, as with the strategic sector of energy production and distribution, we consider the air sector to be a sector to be a priority out of the logics of profitability and competition. The political priority defended by the Communists is the creation of a real public hub for passenger and freight transport, the only one able to work towards the complementarity – I say complementarity – of the different modes of transport, and to the cooperation – I say cooperation – between public enterprises and between European countries. If we really want to decarbonise the air sector, while guaranteeing in the long term the conditions for reasoned mobility but also the maintenance of industrial employment and services, then we must go through a public transport hub based both on networking and direct cooperation of transport companies, starting with Air France and SNCF. Of course, this also requires the efficient and coordinated management of networks and infrastructures carrying out public service and general interest tasks. [[Mr. DavidHabibapplaudit]] I sum up: there must be coherence, there must be complementarity in everyday life, backed up by genuine long-term planning, from the management of networks and infrastructures to the service provided to users, and thus a public centre, under public and social control, raising the objectives set by a public transport policy in all its dimensions, climate, economic, social and research. That is what we need to build urgently, lucidly, to respond to systemic crises and the crisis in the air sector in particular. Otherwise, all our speeches will only be calebrédans and brimborions of solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u207	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u208	For a long time, we have opposed the environment to the economy. It can't work! These two words must be combined in order to have the best results. We are concerned to see the development of aviation continue in a difficult context today, while keeping the ambition not to mortgage the future of our planet. The aviation industry is able to meet this challenge. France is the only country to be able to design all types of aircraft, thanks to an industry of excellence, strategic for our country, employing more than 200,000 people. Member of Parliament for Haute-Garonne, where aviation concerns 80000 jobs, I am, you understand, concerned, but I remain optimistic because I know these companies. Let us never forget – although sometimes I have doubts about this – that this industry contributes to the influence of France. On a trip to foreign countries, what a pride when I'm reminded that I'm from Airbus country! What a positive image of France and Europe: Safran, Thales, Dassault, big companies. Subcontractors are less well-known, yet they make a significant contribution to this image. What a moment! An unknown crisis puts all airlines and aeronautics players in great difficulty. In such troubled times, one might even think that it would be wise not to add constraints. The government plan, through its responsiveness, has been able to cope. Part-time or long-term part-time unemployment has saved jobs and skills. For the smaller ones, state-guaranteed loans – PGE – were vital. No doubt we'll have to secure them. A repayment would certainly put these companies in difficulty, despite the recovery. Yes, the recovery. The State has been responsive and effective. Companies have struggled in an exemplary manner and together we have limited the break. Resisting the time of the virus, but also resisting well after the virus: after the striking constraint covid, the environmental constraint is necessary. It's a shared will. The French aviation industry is a pioneering industry that has always been at the forefront of technology and will remain so. And as early as 2035: commissioning of the green plane. We need to be able to make planes of the future and this goes through a technological road, the development of alternative solutions. The question is, can we make hydrogen planes? We have to experiment. Because these are breaking technologies, of course they have to be adapted to the plane. Let's not neglect any leads. Engines can have biofuels. Aircraft are able to receive up to 50% of alternative fuel very quickly. But in order to produce biofiouls, which have a significant additional cost, in sufficient quantities, the sector must be imposed all over the world, otherwise we will have a serious problem of competitiveness because any unilateral initiative by a country can put its economy and employment at risk,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u210	... without improving the environment. We see it now, we must stop opposing the aircraft to the environment; On the contrary, we must be in balance, in reality. To inform, you have to tell the truth, that of the numbers, and stop echoing some puppets, manipulated or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u212	Air transport consumes 2.5% of fossil fuels. One Airbus A320, two litres per passenger. Our domestic connections account for 0.7% of greenhouse gas emissions. Let's talk about the car: 50% of CO emissions. I'm not saying anything about the trucks, with the SNCF first road carrier, but let's talk a little bit about the train. Between a speed of 200 and 260 km/h, a TGV overconsumes 40% of energy. Should we limit his speed? Definitely not. To be able to choose your mode of transport is still in the space of our freedom. Prioritizing the train or aircraft according to its final destination is the common sense of everyone. To give a transport monopoly over certain distances to a single actor, rail, is to take the risk of distorting competition. The alternative will remain from the blablabla or even from the blablacar... [[Ms. Nicole Dubré-Chirat and Mr. Jean-Luc Lagleize applaud]] Every one of us is aware that respect for the environment remains an essential objective. The plane is not a rich tool, it must become a dream motif again. So, by reason and because sectarianism does not serve progress, let us let our dream come close to the stars.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u213	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u214	As you know, in the first half of 2020, air transport was brutally stopped for several months as a result of the health crisis. According to the figures given in mid-January by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), compared to 2019, the number of passengers transported fell by 50% on domestic flights and by 74% on international flights. This represents, over a year, a decrease of 1.4 billion travellers, which brings us back to a level close to 2003. In France, according to the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, the number of passengers fell by around 60-65% in 2020 compared to 2019. This health shock has turned into an economic shock for all actors in the aviation world: airlines, airport structures, but also industrial sectors have been severely affected, as you have heard in previous interventions. In our country, the national airline Air France-KLM announced on 18 February an abyssal loss of 7.1 billion euros and two thirds of its customers for the year 2020. Revenue fell by 59% compared to 2019. The situation is not much more flourishing for the Aéroports de Paris group, which has noted a decrease in its consolidated turnover of 54.5% compared to 2019. Its president Augustin de Romanet estimates that the group could return to a level reached in 2019 only in 2024 or even in 2027. Our main aeronautical manufacturer, Airbus, lost 29% of its turnover in 2020, with a net loss of 1.1 billion euros. Last year, the company delivered one third less aircraft and is not planning any improvements this year as uncertainties remain. It is therefore in the midst of a serious health and economic crisis that the sector will have to meet the challenge of the ecological transition needed to achieve the carbon-neutral targets in 2050. This challenge seems insurmountable and yet we have technological, industrial and proactive levers to enable us to meet it, if the state mobilizes over time to support them. What are these levers? First of all, it is the optimisation of pilotage. It doesn't seem much, but it's a very important action, as many pilot unions have told us. New tools such as big data or artificial intelligence will immediately reduce CO emissions by promoting more direct routes. Secondly, the deployment of aeronautical biofuels from the circular economy through the recycling of certain agricultural household waste or sustainable synthetic fuels. In this connection, I recall that I had asked the Government, during the review of the Finance Act for 2021, to establish a favourable and stable fiscal and regulatory framework to encourage potential investors in this sector. Third lever, the development of green hydrogen. Within Airbus, this technology should mainly concern regional and short-haul aircraft from 2035 onwards, for the first prototypes at least. For long-haul flights, the prospect of using hydrogen propulsion seems more complex, hence the need for a biofuel industry precisely for this type of flight. As for green hydrogen, the recovery plan provided for a specific allocation of EUR 1.5 billion in R&amp;D for the period 2020-2022. Fourth, the introduction of increasingly demanding certifications for the reduction of CO emissions for airports. I am thinking in particular of the ACA voluntary commitment programme – airportcarbonaccreditation – which each of you knows. Some people and environmental associations believe that the air sector's commitments to the energy transition will be insufficient to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality and that it is therefore essential to introduce constraints by means of ecological taxation or the ban on certain flights. The creation, for example, of an enhanced kilometric eco-contribution, if applied, would bring the revenue from the solidarity tax on airline tickets – TSBA – to about 4.2 billion on the basis of 2019 traffic. As we know, such an increase would obviously be tragic in the absence of fiscal harmonisation, since only French hubs would be penalized. The Citizens' Climate Convention had also called for the abolition of certain domestic flights. At a time when the air sector is experiencing a crisis of unprecedented magnitude and is expected to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, the public authorities must support the actors in the energy transition while helping them to cope with the immense shock they have suffered. Let us trust our innovative capacity to find decarbonation solutions rather than impose bans that only penalize national actors and whose environmental gains are minimal in terms of the stakes. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jean-Luc Lagleize also applauds]] The aircraft remains a formidable tool, indispensable for economic and tourist development, but also for human and cultural exchanges. Let's not be wrong about fighting. Our commitment to protecting the planet and to supporting sustainable development with low consumption of fossil natural resources is not the enemy of the aircraft, but of the fuel it uses today. In the future, other motorization techniques could make air transport a long-distance mobility tool combining performance and sustainability, which means that we retain the regional infrastructure capable of ensuring this traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u215	Bravo! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u216	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u217	As you said, ladies and gentlemen, the aviation and aviation industry has been facing an unprecedented and profound crisis of sustainability for the past year. The numbers speak for themselves. During the first confinement, which corresponded to the peak of the crisis, traffic fell by 95 per cent. There were ten Air France flights per day, compared to the usual thousand. Seventeen French airports, including Orly, had to close. In the aeronautics industry, entire production chains have been put into difficulty. The mechanics are implacable: if the passengers do not take the plane, the companies do not renew their fleets and the manufacturers must adapt their production rates; As you have pointed out, this situation has a serious impact on subcontracting chains, in particular on the equipment manufacturers of SMEs and ITEs, throughout the territory. However, the aviation sector is strategic, in more than one way. It is strategic for our economy as it represents more than one million direct and indirect jobs and is our first export sector. It is strategic for our industry, therefore for our sovereignty. It is strategic for our mobility, therefore for our freedom. It is also strategic for the cohesion of the territories, within the hexagon and with the overseas. For all these reasons, we have strongly supported it and will continue to support it. As the return to normal is not expected for a few years, I will be clear: the emergency devices will be adapted as much as necessary. The losses were enormous. The aid is unprecedented and commensurate with the stakes. The sector has, of course, benefited from aid under ordinary law, in particular partial unemployment, long-term partial employment, State-guaranteed loans and the solidarity fund. The sector has taken full advantage of this: in April last year, 70-90% of aircrew were partially unemployed, as were almost 35% of the aircraft industry's workforce. In total, the scheme involved more than 560 sites and 110000 employees. The sector has also benefited from specific aid. We have deferred a number of taxes in favour of the French flag, and we have advanced EUR 550 million to airport operators to help them cover their safety and security costs. In addition, we have provided 7 billion dollars of support to Air France with strong counterparts: the acceleration of the renewal of the fleet, so that it is more modern and more environmentally efficient; restructuring of the domestic network; a better articulation between the aircraft and the train, priority being given to the train for journeys of less than two thirty hours. We often talk about Air France, but we have also accompanied all the French airlines that have requested it – I will probably come back to that. Above all, the sector has benefited from a support plan of an unprecedented scale of 15 billion, built around three priorities. The first is to protect employees, this is the meaning of the partial activity scheme I have mentioned. The second is to invest in our SMEs and in our ITEs, which is essential to protect us from hostile acquisition strategies. Let me make it clear in this connection that two thirds of the appropriations for the modernisation and diversification of the aeronautics sector have already been committed and that SMEs, particularly from Occitanie, have been the first beneficiaries. The 244 successful projects represent nearly 431 million investments. The third priority, highlighted by many of you, is to accelerate the energy transition of air transport. Because the ambition of recovery is not only to restore our economy, it is to prepare for the country's future. The world we want is not a world without planes, but a world neutral in greenhouse gas emissions. But the best way to get the aviation industry out of the crisis is not to put it down, as some Malthusian minds would like, but to invest, innovate and invent the future generation of low-carbon aircraft. We can do it! These aircraft will reduce emissions not only in France, but throughout the world, with the world fleet being half equipped by Airbus and Safran. Thanks to the stimulus plan, we are investing $1.6 billion over two years in R&amp;D. In addition, the hydrogen strategy, with an envelope of 7 billion, allows us to invest massively to develop the production of decarbonated hydrogen. We launched a French biofuel industry last year in Toulouse: it will be operational as of next month. Our goal is simple: to incorporate as many biofuels as possible into the existing engine range. As you pointed out, the possibilities are considerable. We are capable of this energy transition. The whole industry is mobilized, from manufacturers to airport operators to companies. Air France is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions per passenger per kilometre by 50% by 2030. We will go even further with the bill resulting from the proposals of the Citizens' Climate Convention, which also aims to increase intermodality. I do not teach you: the reality of our territories is such that they need, in order to be served correctly, multiple and complementary modes of transport. That is why we will strengthen the railway. SNCF will soon launch, in partnership with airlines, combined train and aircraft offers from eighteen cities, following the model of what had been undertaken in December with the Bordeaux-Orly route via Massy. We will also help regions find the best synergies between their often large regional airports and the fragile economic model. To act for the complementarity of modes of transport is also to secure the spatial planning lines, which are essential because they contribute to the opening up of medium-sized cities. To act for the complementarity of modes of transport is to give priority to airport connectivity over projects that have lost their relevance to the economic, social and environmental context. The cessation of the plans of Notre-Dame-des-Landes and the Roissy Terminal 4 is a political choice of our government. It is proof that ecology is not the monopoly of a party. Less greenhouse gas emissions, more intermodality, more political regulation: this is tomorrow's plane. It is at European level that social and tax dumping has flourished over the last 15 years; It must therefore be combated primarily at European level. We must put an end to the grey areas of European law, which some low cost companies have enjoyed for years. A five-euro note doesn't exist; When it exists, someone pays the price differential. However, it is often the communities, which are competed by the operators. We are already eight European countries defending better regulation. This is not only possible, but indispensable. We are working on this at the French and European levels. I am convinced that the French Presidency of the European Union will be an opportunity to achieve decisive progress. In parallel, but this is part of the same fight, we are continuing our discussions with the European Commission for the Air France-KLM Group. These exchanges will continue as long as necessary. Air France is a systemic airline, essential for the employment, connectivity of our territories and the spread of France abroad. I will therefore be very careful that the final agreement with the Commission is fair and I will ensure that it does not weaken Air France's reorganization plan or air employment in France. Some argue that the only possible response to the ecological challenge would be to drastically reduce our travel, go back and create a new form of house arrest. This would certainly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but it would further enclave our territories, isolate us, lock us in. It would ultimately be the choice of the decline, the restriction of our freedoms, a downgrading that would first strike the middle classes, and the industrial impotence of our country. That is not the project for which we were elected. This is not the society we want. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, aviator and humanist, said that "to be a man is to be responsible. It is by laying down its stone that one contributes to the building of the world. Building it, rather than destroying it; allowing the future, rather than preventing it; Invent, rather than ban; reconcile the exercise of our freedoms and the preservation of our environment. That is the meaning of our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to questions. I would remind you that their duration, like that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Fabien Lainé, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u219	Even before this unprecedented health crisis, we were already engaged in an environmental race against the clock. The covid-19 epidemic is currently mobilizing all the energies of our country, and it is in this context that the Government has put in place a 15 billion-dollar stimulus plan to support this French industry of excellence that is aeronautics. Within this envelope, $1.5 billion is spent on R&D, at the heart of my question. On behalf of our group, I welcome the quality of the massive support plan that will prepare this strategic path for the global economic recovery while accelerating its ecological transition. New aircraft already appear, much less greedy in kerosene, such as the Airbus A320neo. Industrialists are working on future hybrid propulsion aircraft combining kerosene and electricity, V-flight plans and aircraft fuselage – I am thinking in particular of Airbus's flying wing project. Thus, there are real technological breaks on the horizon. The first certification by the European Aviation Safety Agency of a 100 % electric two-seater aircraft from the Slovenian company Pipistrel Aircraft is a superb example. The use of new fuels such as liquid hydrogen, which is virtuous when it comes from the hydrolysis of water by green electricity, is another axis of R&amp;D, but it raises different questions, in particular as regards the stability of hydrogen in flight, the release of water vapour near the troposphere and the release of nitrogen oxides – NOx – into airport areas. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] What, in your opinion, is the most promising source of energy to achieve the goal of future zero-emission commercial flights by 2035? Do French and European industrialists correctly take the technological turn to compete in the world? Should we abandon the hypersonic plane project to our American and Chinese competitors for the sole benefit of the sustainable plane? Finally, how can the strategist state accompany these changes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u220	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u221	Your question is complex, but I will try to answer it. As you pointed out, the sector has already begun its transition – the figures mentioned above speak for themselves. We are also working on a continuum of measurements, including the optimisation of trajectories and the use of ever lighter, certified and resistant materials, sources of valuable gains from the point of view of aerodynamic and energy efficiency. Then, as you pointed out, we opened up a very large project around energy performance, particularly with regard to fuels – biofuels and synthetic fuels of the future. In this regard, we launched last year in Toulouse the sustainable aviation biofuels sector; She's going to take full advantage of it this year. Four sites have been selected in France and will be dedicated to this type of production. The rate of incorporation of these biofuels is currently quite conservative, since we expect it to be 1% in 2022, 2% in 2025 and 5% in 2030, but I believe that we can go further – and that is the subject of a European consensus – by, for example, applying more proactive port mandates and relying on the technological capabilities we already have to incorporate larger quantities of biofuels into existing engines, as Pierre Cabaré said. We are also working on electric hybridization, which you mentioned, in order to develop demonstrators by 2027, rather on short routes, on a regional scale. Finally, we are working on the big leap towards synthetic fuels, particularly hydrogen. The entire sector is mobilized and we have invested 1.6 billion euros over three years – from 2020 to 2022 – to support industrialists. Our action focuses in particular on three topics: operational safety, which should benefit from technological leaps – you mentioned some of these issues; the question of French production, which must take advantage of a widely decarbonized energy mix and the ambition that we have in the development of renewable energies; the viability of the sector, which is linked in particular to the price of these fuels and which will involve both public support, the massification of supply and the ability of our companies to invest. The industry and the Government are therefore fully mobilized to meet this challenge, which is quite titanic but still within our reach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u222	Mr Alain David has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u223	Starting in the spring of 2022, there will be no more domestic connections for the communes located less than two thirty hours from Paris by train. What concrete provisions have you made to allow passengers from the provinces to travel to Orly or Roissy in a suitable, comfortable and ecological manner? You have abandoned the construction of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport to promote the modernization and expansion of the current Nantes-Atlantique airport. But section 37 of the climate and resilience bill is intended to prohibit plans to expand airport areas. How do you intend to honour your commitment to the elected representatives of Brittany and the Pays de la Loire while including such a prohibition in the law? Then, when it comes to clean aircraft, we also think of the hydrogen aircraft. However, its development requires heavy investment and everyone agrees that it would require an extension of one quarter to one third of the existing airport areas. How do you intend to achieve this, since you plan to ban extensions? [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Finally, why did Air France replace its subsidiary Transavia, which flies exclusively on Boeing without using a single Airbus? Do you think employment is more important in Seattle than in Occitanie or New Aquitaine?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u224	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u225	You have also asked a lot of questions and I will try to answer them in a synthetic way. The two-hour-thirty rule, first, constitutes a presidential commitment to the citizens' climate convention; It has obviously been the subject of concerted action,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u226	With who?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u227	... since I animated a few weeks ago a ministerial council devoted to the service of the territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u228	We've been working together?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u229	... which aims to put on the table the restructuring plan of Air France's domestic network and to consider alternative rail solutions. I would also like to recall that, since 2017, we have taken up the subject in order to strengthen the robustness of the railway system very broadly; We have taken over and remedied SNCF's debt and have made massive and unprecedented investments, including on the territory's fine service lines. We want the various modes of transport to be complementary rather than competing, as in the "TGV Air" offer I mentioned earlier. Secondly, the proposed redevelopment of Nantes-Atlantique airport is maintained as presented to elected officials. It aims to allow the reception of increases in traffic while limiting itself to a very sober land extension and working on the air trajectories in order to minimize the overflight of populations, thus noise pollution. With regard to hydrogen and, more broadly, the energy transition, I would point out that the initial project for the construction of Terminal 4 at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport has been abandoned; We have asked ADP – Aéroports de Paris – to review its copy in its entirety and direct it more towards the reception of the future generation of decarbonized aircraft. This example is a good example of the Government's philosophy, which must lead the country to move towards this new energy transition and be fully involved, especially around airports, which are also often major logistics and development hubs. Finally, with regard to Transavia and the Air France-KLM group, Transavia's history has indeed developed around the Boeing 737. As you know, it is not healthy for an airline to have a fleet that is too heterogeneous. Boeing is also a very large investor in France, including through its subcontracting industry, which includes French companies and thus represents jobs located in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u230	It depends on the cities! For Nice or Montpellier, that's true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u231	It therefore does not seem relevant to me to say that the Air France-KLM Group, through its policy of acquiring aircraft, is in default: it chose those which, at the time they were produced, were best suited to the relevant market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u232	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u233	For almost a year now, air transport has almost stopped. Airlines are facing the resurgence of the covid-19 epidemic and the emergence of its many variants. Many of them risk disappearing and States cannot continue to help them all. According to Eurocontrol, the European organisation for the safety of air navigation, on 27 January last, traffic was down 66% compared to 2019, the last "normal" year. For the sector, the prospect of regaining its pre-crisis level of activity is becoming ever more remote. At the same time, however, there are many constraints on our compatriots living abroad. Their experience of the pandemic is nothing like that of our fellow citizens living on the national territory. For example, recent bans on movement only increase their financial, professional and family difficulties. I am thinking in particular of the thousands of couples separated from each other in the Mediterranean, whose hopes for short-term reunion are diminishing every day. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to Pierre Muracciole, the Director General of Air France in Morocco, and to the dedication of all his teams who have helped to repatriate tens of thousands of French – residents or transiters – at the time of the suspension of flights to that country. This unprecedented situation has led us to reflect on the issue of a right to repatriation. While we hope to see very soon the end of this health tragedy which affects us all, it seems urgent to imagine tariff aid schemes that could be created with the airlines, in order to support both the French who reside abroad and are subject to the purchase of tickets at an exorbitant price, but also the tourism sector, which employs a great deal of our compatriots on the other side of the Mediterranean. So, Minister Delegate, could we not reflect, for example in the form of an information mission, on the creation of a right to repatriation for all French people, wherever they are in the world? This question has been particularly acute in the last few months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u234	[[At 19.05 p.m., Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u235	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u236	You first mentioned the effects of the crisis. In this connection, I would like to point out that, at the most acute moment of the crisis, we have worked on three priorities. We first set up health protocols to ensure the continuity of a traffic which, although modest, continued to exist. It was out of the question that operators, their employees and passengers should be caught between practical difficulties and a sanitary protocol that would not have been satisfactory. We have done so at European level, which has ensured continuity of air travel since the beginning of the crisis, thanks to a very high-level protocol. We then – as I said and some of you stressed – cushioned the immediate effects of the crisis by supporting all operators, airlines, airport operators and aviation industries, thanks to considerable financial investments. Finally, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we undertook a major project aimed at repatriating our compatriots – more than 180,000 of them, spread over 140 countries, were involved at the time of the first confinement. For this purpose, we chartered 145 flights from regions, some of which were among the most remote in the world. In a way, the right to repatriation that you call your vows has in fact been widely implemented. As long as this concept is clarified, I am willing to work with you to see how things can be further improved to preserve freedom of movement and support the recovery of the air sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u237	Mr Grégory Labille, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u238	IATA estimates the decline in global air transport in 2020 at 65.9% and the loss of revenue for the air sector at 118 billion euros. The resumption of traffic will not be rapid, since the return to a pre-crisis level is only expected by 2024. The effects on employment are already visible. Lufthansa has eliminated 22000 jobs, or 16% of its total workforce, and Airbus has announced the elimination of 5000 jobs in France. The latter were the subject of a rapid intervention by the Government, which invested EUR 7 billion in the form of a current account advance of shareholders and 90% guaranteed bank loans, with conditions – integrated into the PLF by 2021 – to improve competitiveness and achieve environmental objectives. However, I would also like to alert you to the invisible effects of this drastic fall in the air sector, which is likely to cause a hysteresis effect on the employment of qualified personnel by the subsidiaries of aircraft manufacturers. You mentioned the SMEs in Occitanie. Indeed, in my area of the Somme, there is a pool of jobs that you know well, Mr.Minister Delegate, for having spoken to Senator Stéphane Demilly – who greets you –, that of Albert-Méaulte, where more than 60% of the inhabitants live directly or indirectly in this area. Beyond the loss of jobs, which should involve between 700 and 1000 people, i.e. a large part of the population of the municipality, a permanent loss of know-how and the irremediable relocation of the activity may occur if no temporary solution is found. Xavier Bertrand, president of Hauts-de-France, had proposed in November 2020 to charter trains free of charge to allow employees of the Méaulte site to travel to the city of Crespin to be employed by Bombardier, so that their know-how would not disappear with the crisis, which could last. In view of what the region is proposing, I would like to know how the Government plans to combat the risk of the permanent disappearance of these skilled jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u239	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u240	I thank you for commending the Government's very important efforts to cushion the immediate effects of the crisis. You were right to say that the massive support provided to companies, large groups, SMEs or ETIs has kept critical skills within them. As you know, the aviation industry is dual, as it is partly geared to the military needs of defence; Therefore, the maintenance of these critical competences is an act of economic resistance but also of sovereignty. I know well, indeed, the area of activity that you represent, but other aeronautical industrial territories have been mentioned, notably that of Aubert and Duval en Auvergne. I would like to take this opportunity to mention some of the funds and arrangements that we have created, as they are essential to achieving this decisive act of resistance. We have thus created Aerofund, which makes it possible to facilitate the reconciliations within the industry and to consolidate it; It was very expected and concerns in particular SMEs in the sector. "Aero" EMPs meet the cash flow requirements associated with the slowdown in production rates referred to above. We also proposed export guarantees for a volume of around €6 billion and two other funds were launched in June: a fund for the consolidation of companies that intervenes by means of capital injections, and a fund for the modernisation and diversification of the aviation sector, with 300 million over three years – this may answer the last part of your question. On the other hand, and this is fundamental, we have strengthened the framework for the control of foreign investment in France in order to protect ourselves against hostile acquisition strategies, which I referred to in my introductory statement. All these measures must enable us first to amortise the effects of the crisis, but also to revive a sector while preserving skills and skilled trades throughout the territory. It is therefore an act of resistance and a very French conquest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u241	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u242	Mrs Pompili repeated it about two weeks ago, the aim is to develop an aircraft operating with other fuels. In January 2020, you and Élisabeth Borne launched a call for expressions of interest in the production of aerofuels. These could only be a solution, I stress, if their production is based on the use of agricultural by-products and not on dedicated crops. However, their production is so low to date that the national low-carbon strategy plans to incorporate only 2% into kerosene in 2025 and 5% in 2030. As for the hydrogen aircraft, it is synonymous with an explosion in electricity requirements. To fly with this energy all aircraft to or from Charles-de-Gaulle, it has been established that in 2018 it would have taken the equivalent of 5000 square kilometres of wind turbines, 1000 square kilometres of photovoltaic panels or sixteen nuclear reactors. For its hydrogen plan, the European Commission has set up a public-private partnership to create a EUR 130 billion market for oil, gas and equipment companies by 2030 and EUR 820 billion by 2050, which we believe is more economic than ecological. Flying planes with agrofuels is not the panacea, as we have seen, and hydrogen aircraft require heavy investment, whether it is production and transport infrastructure or the restructuring of all the airports through which they would transit. Let us also bear in mind the failure of the A380, which it is important not to reproduce. For us, the solution obviously requires a transformation of the air sector, technological improvements, but also a reduction in traffic. Minister, can you tell us exactly what the plane will look like in 2050 and especially what fuel it would be able to fly with?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u243	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u244	I will come back mainly to energy matters. You were right to recall that we launched a sustainable biofuels industry for aviation last year. My services have analysed many offers, both in terms of volume and quality, in order to massify their production throughout the territory. We set a mandate for incorporation of 1% in 2022, 2% in 2025 and 5% in 2030, which we can make more ambitious in terms of, among other things, European discussions. I would remind you that current engines can incorporate up to 50% of biofuel certified as "sustainable aviation", if not 100%. It is not only a matter of massaging production in order to have the necessary volumes for exploitation, but also of carrying out voluntary political action through the mandate of incorporation. Various research is being carried out to lead to technological leaps in synthetic fuels and hydrogen. For the latter, as you pointed out, the issue of infrastructure and the massification of supply and public support for prices arises. All of these files are on the table. Public investment is considerable, as I say again: EUR 1.6 billion over three years as part of the recovery plan. French and European leadership are exemplary in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u245	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor for the Freedom and Territory Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u246	A year ago, I would have told you about hydrogen, a subject to which you know I am very attached, but today the aeronautics industry is experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis which I will call dramatic. In 2019, it was our pride: it was a source of extraordinary surpluses, of more than 29 billion euros, for our trade balance. With the crisis, 193 regional European airports will face insolvency in the coming months. If traffic does not resume very quickly, the losses, already estimated for 2020 at 836 million, will only increase. The financial infusion of the state, I am the Commissioner for Finance, is not a long-term solution. Our territories remain landlocked and our citizens are deprived of their freedom of movement, which is a constitutional freedom. This situation seems questionable to us, but probably we are not smart enough to understand all this. Minister, I know you are very attached to the regional level and I stress that our regional airports will not survive this crisis, while their activity is reduced to a few domestic flights. I'll have two questions. The first is the railway station that I am putting it to you: how do you plan to combine the necessary economic recovery through the redeployment of traffic and the replacement of domestic flights of less than two and a half hours by train trips? I am referring to the measure of the famous "climate" bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u247	Very bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u248	... sad symbol, I say, of ecological demagogy. Currently, the driver of a car consumes more than the passenger of an airplane: 5 liters per 100 versus 2.7 liters, you know. Are we going to ban the car in our country? I don't believe it. My second question concerns subcontractors. The director of an aeronautical subcontracting company that manufactures seats for commercial aircraft, located in Salaunes in my constituency, told me earlier that he had suffered a 50% decrease in turnover. How are you going to help them turn around since you tell us that this crisis is lasting and that we need to invest in R&amp;D, especially to develop the hydrogen aircraft?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u249	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u250	I do know that you are very attentive to these issues, particularly the hydrogen sector, and I will reply at the same time to Mrs Pinel, who asked me how many projects had already been financed. We have provided EUR 1.6 billion, EUR 376 million has already been invested in sixty-two projects covering the hydrogen sector in aviation, but also more broadly in work on the optimisation of trajectories and materials, with the objective of a more energy-efficient aircraft producing less aerodynamic drags. As for regional airports, the crisis exacerbated the difficulties they faced before it occurred. Present in many territories, they are based on a fragile economic model. I therefore proposed to the regions, about a month and a half ago, to help them find either differentiated vocations for their airports, because they have retained some generalist vocations or synergies between them, so as to strengthen the economic model while organising social regulation of the sector, a condition which I believe is essential. Over the past 15 years, regional airports, sometimes some 15 kilometres away from each other, have been competed by ultra low-cost operators, who often arranged for social and fiscal optimisation. In this particularly acute moment of crisis, regulation of the sector must be organised at European level. France will, of course, take all its part, including at national level, in order to help set up a much more virtuous circle. With regard to competition and the complementarity of modes of transport, I would point out that whenever a high-speed railway line has been created in France, it has helped to dry up air traffic between the cities it connects. Between Strasbourg and Paris, there is almost no air traffic and very little between Bordeaux and Paris. But we have to keep the traffic in correspondence. At these regional airports, particularly in the cities I mentioned, connecting traffic to Roissy reaches more than 80%. The objective is not competition between modes of transport but complementarity and, of course, connectivity through the Paris connecting hub. Finally, with regard to subcontracting, I have responded quite broadly, in particular by going back to the support schemes for SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u251	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u252	My question concerns the dismantling of the Hop branch! Air France and the withdrawal of the application for approval of the voluntary departure plan and the plan to safeguard employment – PSE. Last August, Air France's announcement of the abolition of more than 1000 posts at Hop!, almost half of the total workforce, showed that it was a real plan to dismantle the company without any direct connection to the difficulties arising from the health crisis. It was only used as a pretext because the liquidation was planned long before. As early as May 2020, I had questioned the Minister of Economy without a substantive answer. And when I sent a letter to the ministry in September, I received an answer that was completely unrelated to the specific requests I had made, about the fact that Hop! would be unable to continue its transport and maintenance activity. On 15 February, following the submission of the application for the company's safeguard plan, the DIRECCTE – Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment – warned the management of Hop! the illegality of the planned reclassification schemes, which led him to announce, at an extraordinary social and economic committee, the withdrawal of his application for approval. At the same time, the Air France Group, in the midst of a crisis, while benefiting from the loan of 4 billion from the State and from all the schemes to take care of partial unemployment, has carried out the external recruitment of 116 airline pilots. The manoeuvre is gross and the union representatives of the staff are not fooled by the desire to put pressure on the employees, pilots and aircrew by blackmailing the reclassifications within the Air France group, according to wage conditions which do not respect the status, seniority or salary scale. [[Ms Bénédicte Taurine and Mr Alain David applaud]] My question is therefore simple, Mr.Minister: would the management of the Air France Group be above the law? Can you make a commitment to enforce the rights of employees and the reclassification commitments of Hop employees! - Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u253	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u254	Mr President Chassaigne, with a simple question, a simple answer: the Air France Group is not above the law; it respects the law, in particular labour and employee law. Hop! It is not dismantled but restructured when its business, as you know, was largely in deficit, structurally, since the subsidiary had EUR 200 million in losses before the crisis. It has obviously exacerbated its difficulties and made it necessary both a reorganization and a massive €7 billion support plan for the Air France-KLM Group, which has also preserved the jobs of the Hop! subsidiary. As far as PSE is concerned, I confirm that exchanges are continuing with a view to an agreement and that I have asked Air France's managers to work on the concept of intra-group seniority, which I believe is absolutely essential. Social dialogue will continue in these terms. I hope I've reassured you about this at least.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u255	Mr Mickaël Nogal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u256	On the eve of the review of the climate change bill, we can say that the aviation industry is more than ever at the heart of tomorrow's environmental and economic challenges. She is going through the biggest crisis in her history and all the specialists agree that a return to normal is not expected until 2024. Yet, in just 30 years, air transport has already been able to reduce CO emissions by 50%, a sign of the long-standing ecological commitment of industrialists. We were able to see this together, Minister, a few days ago at Safran, which was the first company in France to open its doors to the Citizen's Convention for the Climate. This ambition is shared by all the principals, Airbus, Thales and Dassault, who, within the framework of the Council for Civil Aviation Research, mobilise the entire sector. That is why we must not sacrifice on the altar of punitive ecology the future of our industry and national sovereignty. Why, in the name of a certain dogmatic ideology, would we weaken a French flagship, which represents nearly a million direct and indirect jobs in our territories, which innovates and invests heavily in R&D, particularly in environmental matters, and which is responsible for less than 3% of CO emissions at national level? The current crisis must encourage France to reach the green plane as soon as possible, not to mention the consolidation of our production chain, which is crucial for the competitiveness of the sector in the face of foreign competition, whether it is American or Chinese. All this requires a financial commitment from the state, the necessary increase of the accompanying fund of our TPEs and SMEs to make them move towards industry 4.0 or to make them ETIs able to innovate, to invest industrially in our territories in order to conquer international markets. I would also like to recall the hundreds and hundreds of thousands of faces in this sector, workers, employees, engineers and entrepreneurs, who make us proud every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u257	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u258	We must keep these jobs with high added value, because let us not be mistaken: if France turns its back on aeronautics, others will not be as intransigent as we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u260	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Lagleize applauds]] Minister, what do you intend to do for this line of excellence, beyond the France Recovery plan that runs until 2022?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u261	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u262	Thank you for your support and action. We were visiting Safran a few days ago and you described very well what we saw there, that is, very sophisticated skills, industrial know-how, the global projects that the group is undertaking, with potentially effects on the decarbonization of the sector. In doing so, you have laid the right pillars of our common thinking. Of course, the aviation industry must be consolidated. You're paying attention to ITEs and SMEs all over the territory, and that's important. I presented the various support devices. Of course, it is a matter of accelerating further the energy transition of the sector in order to set up the green plane, but also, more broadly, to organize this evolution industrially, to create new skills, know-how and to continue to radiate internationally thanks to our aviation industry. [[Mickaël Nogal applauds]] Beyond this sector, I would like to say that it is the whole transport sector that is very much affected and I have been able to verify, whether it is in ports, airports, at SNCF, to what extent the employees, the entrepreneurs concerned, the French are engaged, competent, patriotic and have the will to make this crisis a chance. I would like to take this opportunity to commend these collective efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u263	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor for the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u264	I would like to associate my colleague from Val-d'Oise, Naïma Moutchou, with my question. The health crisis that we are going through leaves us no choice but to make a serious turn for air transport, which had indeed begun itself. The State's request to abandon the planned construction of a new terminal 4 at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle, as designed, is in this direction. But taking the turn too quickly risks putting the sector even more in difficulty. We must create the conditions for accelerating the ecological transition of the air sector, without stifling it, and improve its acceptability in the territories concerned. It is in this sense that the State asks the ADP Group to present arrangements contributing to the energy transition of the airport, in order to be able to accommodate future hydrogen aircraft. The energy transition of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle, of all airport infrastructure and the first efforts of air transport actors will create new jobs. The health crisis will unfortunately lead to the disappearance of many posts in the coming months, affecting in particular some of my fellow citizens who work in the Roissy economic basin. We must do everything we can to train all of these people today and to support them in the new jobs of the energy transition from air transport. We must also invest in an industrial policy of the future. Our aeronautics support plan contributes to this by investing heavily in green aircraft, which will be more environmentally friendly and will help to reduce the noise and environmental nuisances suffered by airport residents; It's been one of my fights for four years. We set ambitious but not inaccessible goals if we collectively provide ourselves with the means. It is necessary to continue to identify productive investment projects in the territories, contributing to the energy transition of the air transport sector. You have detailed your action in the context of the transformation of the sector. What is your method of consultation and how do you intend to engage all the players in the sector in order, in particular, to reduce the noise and environmental impact of aviation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u265	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u266	Thank you for your commitment, which has not been denied since 2017 on these very important issues in your riding. You have mentioned the vicissitudes of history and the recent shutdown of the project of construction of Terminal 4. I thank you for the proposals that you have made, which we have drawn heavily from. I want to say a word about the philosophy of our policy, both on this specific territorial subject and, beyond that, on the support for the sector, which I have widely mentioned before you: we want, especially on the Paris plate, new airport projects capable of welcoming the new generation of low-carbon aircraft. To this end, we will need infrastructure, new skills, new ecosystems geared towards the energy transition. The new projects will also need to reinforce the intermodality between the aircraft and the train, in order to respond to this famous logic of complementarity rather than competition. They will have to be innovative in terms of technology, in terms of environment in the broad sense, to ensure a high level of environmental performance. As far as the method is concerned, we have set up, and you have been invited to do so, a ministerial council for development and innovation in transport, which will allow a comprehensive and sector-by-sector approach, sometimes thematic – we are talking in particular about territorial services with airports and the rail sector – and bringing together all the operators, industry and elected representatives concerned to discuss very concretely the territorial projects and determine how to reconcile development and environmental performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u267	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u268	The crisis of the covid-19 has profoundly destabilized the aeronautics sector, an area of economic excellence in France. Behind the major aircraft manufacturers, thousands of subcontractors are assigned in cascades and, with them, hundreds of thousands of jobs. The consequences of health measures are dramatic for airlines which see their activity collapse. They thus find themselves in great financial fragility, making it all the more difficult for them to cope with the new carbon-compensation constraints that the climate and resilience bill intends to impose in the coming years, but also with the increase in carbon prices and the ban on the exploitation of certain internal lines, in accordance with the wishes of the citizens' climate convention. If the Air France Group has been supported by the State, the European Commission, in the name of competition rules, requires the company to divest twenty-four slots – slots – at Orly Airport. This will lead to the further weakening of a company in difficulty, to the benefit of low-cost companies whose social practices are the subject of criticism. However, only large airlines are able to have the financial capacity to offer first opportunities to clean aircraft of the future. To weaken them is to weaken the entire aeronautics sector, at a time when it must be able to commit the heavy investment required by innovations towards cleaner aircraft. Beyond punitive measures, the State must therefore offer real support to the sector in order to enable it to move towards a more environmentally friendly model; and this support must be provided without the retaliatory measures imposed by Brussels. Does the Government intend to defend the sector in the face of absurd European rules, rather than to give it the blow of grace by offering only punitive measures for its sole horizon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u269	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u270	You ask many questions that I will try to answer in a synthetic way. I do not go back to the economic support measures which have been widely debated and which, I believe, are the subject of a form of consensus as to their novelty and effectiveness at this time of the crisis. The health measures implemented must enable us to continue operating the airports in a secure manner and to consider the follow-up, at the same time as vaccination and treatment progresses; It is a matter of, and we have already made considerable progress, persevering measures in the areas of cleaning, disinfection, wearing of the mask or de-engaging of the queues. You know that initiatives have been launched at IATA level and taken up at European level, in favour of what is known as the Travel Pass or health pass. These are important measures, which will give operators visibility and trust to users. We will therefore continue to work on these issues in the coming weeks, at the French and European levels. You talked about competition and you're right. We have put in place essential arrangements, the most important being for the Air France-KLM group, which has received aid of €7 billion on the French side and €3 billion on the Dutch side. These airlines are systemic companies necessary for the connectivity of our territories, for the influence of France and for the skills they bring together. Orly, unlike the German airports in Frankfurt and Munich, is saturated; The value of slots is therefore not identical to that of German airports on which the European Commission has taken a differentiated view. Finally, the regulation of the sector also requires a reduction in social conditions: in particular, I have mentioned, we must put an end to what is called atypical employment, which is too long used by certain ultra low cost operators to the grey margins of European law, which in recent years have helped to weaken the French flag and which, today, would hinder a fair recovery on a competitive level. The political regulation that must be carried out in the sector is therefore an economic, social and environmental regulation and this is the philosophy defended by the Government in its demanding discussions with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u271	Thank you, Minister Delegate. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1186.u272	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion on the conclusions of the report of the fact-finding mission on children without identity. The meeting is adjourned.
