ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate to protect young minors from sexual crimes (No. 3796, 3939).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u2	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u3	Our task is immense. We must change the law to, finally, completely and absolutely protect our children. I know that, as you know, many victims look at us and rely on us. Our common responsibility is twofold: we must propose coherent and coordinated developments to protect all minor victims, but also to ensure respect for the main principles of the rule of law. For if it is legitimate, the emotion surrounding the debates, affecting the intimacy of each, cannot and should not be our only guide. The law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence has already made major progress, but we need to go even further to make things clear to all: we don't touch children. The law committee of your assembly voted last week for a text with historical progress. We must, however, strengthen them and perfect them together. Our discussions will be rich since almost 300 amendments have been tabled, demonstrating your commitment to improving the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence. As I announced at the committee meeting, the normative work has continued intensively in order to refine the proposals before you today. We must now continue our exchanges in order to respond to the imperative of protecting minors, without being carried away by passion or emotion. Let us draw inspiration from child protection professionals who, on a daily basis, engage with the victims: they listen, advise, care, report, defend, judge, warn. By doing this, they absorb the emotions of others to finally make visible the invisible and express the indescribable. Again this morning, together with Adrien Taquet and several of you, we met an association that supports the actors on the ground, they must never be left alone in front of the innumerable. We must now be very concrete and answer the following question: how will this bill guarantee the protection of children? First of all, no adult will be able to rely on the consent of a minor under the age of 15 and every adult will have to know that he or she commits a crime punishable by 20 years' imprisonment or an offence punishable by 10 years' imprisonment when he or she attacks a child of that age. This major step, unanimously supported, will have to be clarified in the course of the discussions in order to improve its provisions. The strong expectations of our fellow citizens require us to be extremely rigorous in the design of this penal system. Our constitutional principles, including the proportionality of punishment, require the introduction of an age gap between the adult and the minor in the new definitions of rape and sexual assault. A balance must also be struck between the protection of the most fragile and the preservation of adolescent love, with the aim of ensuring the protection of minors without, however, censoring their sexual life. But, of course, the introduction of an age gap does not and cannot have the effect of protecting unconscionable sexual relations. We propose a stronger criminal law which, according to constitutional principles, will apply only for the future. We must therefore maintain a very high level of protection for all victims of acts committed before the coming into force of this future law and that is why the provisions resulting from the 2018 law will continue to apply. The qualifications of rape and sexual assault with violence, coercion, threat or surprise are obviously maintained; Similarly, the offence of sexual abuse will not be abolished in order to punish, inter alia, acts that would not fall within the scope of the new definitions, but also to continue to punish acts committed before the future reform. It is not possible to leave past victims of sexual abuse by adults on the roadside and to adopt a law that would have the effect of amnestiing the perpetrators of such acts. I am thinking in particular of the immature 14-year-old, traumatized after being influenced by her older brother's friends who wanted to get a sexual relationship while they were 19-year-olds. What, moreover, does the bill on incest provide for? It is simple: incest is a crime that no minor can suffer without a strong and clear criminal response. We send this message to the victims, to those who have had the courage to break the silence, but also to the perpetrators. Everywhere and every time, the authorities will be there to suppress such atrocities. With this bill, incestuous rape and incestuous sexual assault will now be named and defined specifically in the Penal Code. All ascendants will be targeted; uncles, aunts, nephews, nieces, siblings, spouses of the latter, stepfathers or stepmothers will also be so if they exercise de facto or de jure authority over the minor. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens and GDR groups]] Secondly, what response does the bill provide with regard to the protection of minors in prostitution? This issue emerged during our debates in committee and we used the week of normative work to incorporate it into the text. A decisive step forward will thus be proposed by an amendment by the majority, providing that any 18-year-old who resorts to prostitution of a minor under the age of 15 commits a rape punishable by twenty years. Remunerated sex without penetration will now be described as sexual assault and punished by 10 years. The message will therefore be very clear. Finally, what does the proposal for a statute of limitations provide for? While the current regime allowing victims to report such crimes until they reach the age of 48 should be preserved, we need to go further in certain specific situations, when the rapist repeats his acts on several victims in particular. The extended statute of limitations, which provides all victims with the longest statute of limitations, will be supplemented by a provision to ensure that the statute of limitations for previous crimes is interrupted by the last victim's complaint. This will be a mechanism of specific relevance to sexual offences committed against minors. Thus, even if the last crime is ultimately not punished for lack of evidence or if the perpetrator is acquitted, the other crimes revealed by the latter may be tried. This is a major step forward for all victims and recognition of their suffering. This will be discussed in detail in our discussions. Before concluding, I wish to commend the parliamentary work that, in close connection with the Government, has enabled the unprecedented progress that you are about to vote today. First of all, I would like to thank the involvement and determination of the rapporteur, Alexandra Louis, who helped to support this text, but also to question the Government's proposals for their advancement. I welcome the cooperation of the three groups of the majority who, through the voice of their leaders, Jean Terlier, Isabelle Florennes and Dimitri Houbron, have made it possible to define the best answers to put an end to this scourge which is devastating the miners. I would also like to mention the commitment of Members Isabelle Santiago and Pascal Brindeau, as well as that of all other opposition groups who have known and will be able to work together to advance the cause of the protection of minors. Finally, it is impossible for me not to mention your colleagues in the Senate, in particular Ms.Annick Billon and Ms.Marie Mercier, who will be reviewing this bill again in about ten days and who, I know, will take their responsibilities in order to continue the joint work that began in January. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I and GDR]] I hope that our rich and constructive debates will allow us to take a new step in protecting our children and will mark by the vote on this bill, the historic progress that we all expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u4	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u5	We are meeting again today to ensure that our children are better protected from sexual violence. It is a demanding, rigorous, always indispensable work, on which much has already been said. We have suffered for too long from the mismatch between the reality of sexual violence against children and the eyes of institutions, as well as part of society, on such violence. For a long time, we have offered the victims only a profoundly unsatisfactory and unjust alternative: either silence – a chape of lead, in the etymological sense of the term, this instrument of torture that in the Middle Ages, the prisoner was given to cause him suffering – or complex judicial responses, and incomplete in terms of accompanying the victims. This legacy, whose flaws we know, we have to pay for it. Of course, important steps have been taken in recent years – the keeper of the seals reminded him: we must salute the scope of the laws adopted in 2018 and 2019, supported notably by Marlène Schiappa, Bérangère Couillard and Guillaume Gouffier-Cha; The plan to combat violence against children should also be welcomed, the 22 measures of which are aimed at better preventing violence, gathering the voices of the victims and accompanying them; It is also important to acknowledge the work of associations – such as Doctors Bru, or Laurent Boyet's Les Butillons – and actors on the ground, such as the Fédération Française des centres ressources pour les intervenors à les perteurs de violence sexuelles. Much more than yesterday, we now listen to the victims, believe them and help them. At the criminal level, however, we had to go further. The discussions in committee have helped to identify the issues at stake and to identify issues that we will have to deal with in greater depth: for example, it will be to strengthen the mechanism of prolonged statute of limitations and the connected nature of the statute of limitations – as Mr.Sequin said – to move forward on the offence of "sextorsion", or to better punish those who resort to prostitution of minors, in order to better protect them. This will be the first step in the complete arsenal on which we are working with the Attorney General near the Paris Court of Appeal, Catherine Champrenault. With regard to such complex issues, collective work between the Government, parliamentarians and civil society actors has proved to be essential. It has helped to avoid unnecessary controversy, and we hope that it will continue until the law is finally adopted, the progress of which is clear and strong. Governments will keep their promise to improve legislation with full responsibility. What is at stake is that, finally, we are changing our culture: we must adopt a culture of prevention and protection, for the benefit of children and victims. This change is the result of a double revolution. The first, linked to the strengthening of the law, leads to no longer questioning the notion of consent below 15 years, while integrating teenage love. The second, equally important, is prevention and accompaniment. It echoes a number of recent initiatives. I am of course thinking of the announcements made by the President of the Republic on 23 January, aimed at setting up two screening and prevention meetings against sexual violence in schools, one at primary school and the other at college; work has been launched on this subject with Jean-Michel Blanquer, to make the school a central area of prevention, and therefore of the protection of children – and this, as soon as next school year. The President of the Republic also announced the reimbursement of psychological care and care for child victims; we work with Olivier Véran. The work of the independent commission on incest and sexual violence during childhood, chaired by Édouard Durand and Nathalie Mathieu, will have to lead, among other things, to a genuine prevention programme for children, key messages addressed to all, and more appropriate training for all professionals in contact with minors. We were this morning, with some of you, at the juvenile victimology centre of the Hôtel-Dieu – Mr. The professionals we exchanged with on this occasion – Caroline Rey-Salmon, Mélanie Dupont, Charlotte Gorgiard and Patricia Vasseur – have all said: prevention and training actions are essential, and must be widely disseminated. We are therefore opening up a new era of prevention, which will enable children to be more aware and better protected. It will also allow professionals to identify violence more early, to better support children and to better collect their words. Finally, it will allow potential authors – this is crucial – to be taken care of in order to avoid passages to action or recurrences. This collective work, we do above all for the children, so that they are not victims, or, if they have been, better cared for; It's a moral imperative for all of us. We also do this for the children's entourage and their families. To treat and prevent these physical, psychological, moral and social injuries is, beyond that, to work for society as a whole. As I have already pointed out, the protection of children must be our compass. As we change the law, let us think that childhood trauma affects health throughout life, and that it reduces life expectancy, sometimes up to 20 years. Let us have in mind, as the World Health Organization – WHO – explains, that abused children, who have become adults, are more exposed to various behavioural, physical and psychological disorders: propensity to commit violence or to suffer from it, depression, smoking, risky sexual behaviour, alcoholism, drug addiction... It should be borne in mind that childhood trauma promotes heart disease, cancer, suicide and sexually transmitted infections. Beyond these impacts on health and society, these traumas have an economic cost, including hospitalizations, treatment of mental disorders, child protection and longer-term health expenditures. Let us have in mind that together we have the power to break this vicious circle of violence, the effects of which last for many years in adult life. Let us bear in mind that we have the power to put an end to the disproportionate and absurd individual, collective and societal cost of sexual violence against children. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and Agir ens groups]] This change in culture will take time. It will undoubtedly create some reluctance, but it is one of the most exciting challenges of our action: it is simply a question of offering children today the uncompromising protection to which they are entitled, and of offering tomorrow's adults the flourishing existence they deserve, freed from the culture of domination. We must break with a past that is not up to the society we want to build. That is possible, and the vote on this bill is taking place. It's even indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u6	I call Mrs Alexandra Louis, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u7	We are about to consider a bill that comes from far away: formally, it comes from the Senate, but it also comes from all those who have been fighting tirelessly for years or even decades to combat sexual and gender-based violence, especially against children. We are looking at the text tabled by Senator Annick Billon, which is in keeping with the spirit of a great deal of committed parliamentary work in both the National Assembly and the Senate. This law must mark – and will mark – a historic turning point for the protection of minors. You all remember: this subject was discussed three years ago during the debate on the law, known as Schiappa, on 3 August 2018, strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. In particular, the latter extended the statute of limitations for crimes committed against minors and enriched the definition of coercion, with an interpretative provision incorporating the age of 15 years. After the unanimous vote on this law, there was no question of closing the case. Parliament continued its work; Parliamentarians have continued to listen to associations, to hear from lawyers, and to devise solutions – we cannot emphasize enough how our legislative initiatives are taking their source in our oversight activities. The trail of the autonomous offence, which will be subject to the approval of the National Assembly, was thus opened by a senatorial fact-finding mission, led by Senator Marie Mercier – whom I would like to acknowledge – and by the work of monitoring the implementation of the Schiappa law, which I have been charged with. It is by continuing our efforts that we have removed the obstacles to achieving a balanced solution, which I hope will be legally sound. We will therefore be able to make progress with this bill, which the majority group has placed on its reserved agenda because it is the most advanced in the procedure. I will only come back very briefly to the heart of the debate, namely, the age of consent at 15 – an age that the Senate, concerned about constitutional considerations, had set at 13. I do not think I have to convince you: the debates in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have shown that we are unanimous in this matter. The principle will be clear: under 15 years, it is no. No adult has the right to engage in a sexual relationship with a child: it is simple, it is precise, and the opposite will be criminal. We will no longer look for the concept of consent. However, discussions in the committee have shown that this principle needs to be adjusted. We decided that, in cases of incest, the age would be raised to 18, rather than 15; This position seems to be unanimous on all the benches. We have also talked a lot about the famous couples "Roméo et Juliette", these young people who are separated by a small age difference, but one of whom is a major and the other minor under the age of 15: in the general opinion, criminalizing these relationships would be a real madness. So we converged towards a five-year age gap, below which we would no longer speak of a court of seats. Finally, among the important topics is the definition of a special statute of limitations for serial rape. This is a complex issue, on which I repeat my caution, in view of the practical difficulties of successive reforms in the courts. However, I remain convinced that we must move forward on these very specific matters, and I welcome the amendments that will be tabled to regulate more precisely the mechanism adopted in the Committee on Laws. The text resulting from the committee's deliberations is rich, and I will propose that it be further enriched on matters that it does not address. I am thinking of the prostitution of minors: increased repression must target clients and pimps. I am also thinking of the online predator activity, the "sextorsion", against which, in accordance with the demands of the police officers of the Juvenile Protection Brigade, I will propose to open a way to resort to the classification of rape when the victim was forced to self-penetrate. I also think of the perverts who show up and masturbate in public, in transport or in front of schools, without risking much: I will propose to allow the judicial authority to judge them in immediate appearance, so that they do not drag for months in nature, with the risks that their profile implies. In conclusion, I will mention my most symbolic amendment: I will propose that the term "incest" refers to a crime in the Criminal Code. It's a subject that hurts; it is undermining many of our compatriots who have suffered it or who continue to suffer it. I would like us to clearly reaffirm this prohibition, unequivocally, not for moral reasons, but because the protection of children is essentially based on the conscience of adults. In my life as a lawyer, as in my life as a elected woman – and like many of you, no doubt – I have been marked by many encounters with victims and their loved ones, and I think I can say that they taught me a lot. Their situations are certainly different, but all their journeys are complicated. Let me tell you about this mother of two: one night, a few months ago, her daughter told her that her brother had raped her for several years, without the family knowing. In a few seconds, this woman of extreme dignity found herself both the mother of an author and a victim. What struck me the most, in his words, is his terrible loneliness in the face of a society that remained too mutical, despite the magnitude of the phenomenon – for neither she nor her children had ever been sensitized to incest. Worse, she learned that her own son had been raped himself by a third party when he was 12 years old. These sordid stories are, unfortunately, very ordinary. Criminal law has not only a repressive function, it must also express the values of a society. Let us express our commitment to the protection of children's innocence. Not only must the culprits know that they are committing a crime, but also – and above all – all citizens must know that they must open their eyes and ask the right questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u8	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u9	As Burke would have said, the only thing that allows evil to triumph is the inaction of good people. Let us act because, as adults, we are all responsible for protecting children from evil. If this law will be a step forward – and no doubt even a revolution – it will not be enough. Prevention remains the best weapon against sexual violence. It is up to us to develop a true culture of protection by giving civil society the means to react – for, yes, society as a whole must mobilize. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues who have contributed with great enthusiasm – despite the seriousness of the subject – to moving this text forward. I thank you for listening, Mr. Keeper of the Seals; and I thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for the missions you have carried out, especially with regard to prevention. Finally, I have a thought for all the victims, some of whom listen to us and probably look at us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u10	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Savignat spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u11	For the second time in a few weeks, we are discussing a subject that concerns us all: the fight for the protection of minors. On 18 February, as part of the parliamentary niche of the Socialist and Related Group, we unanimously adopted Mrs Santiago's bill to strengthen the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence. Today we are discussing the one of Senator Billon, who was adopted in the Senate on January 21. After the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, we are given the opportunity to legislate once again to strengthen the protection of minors by creating autonomous offences against the sexual act committed by a major against a minor, offences for which the courts would be exempt from questioning the victim's consent, in the name of the fundamental principle that a child cannot be consented. Of course, we all share this will to move forward. That is why, in a sense of co-construction, we have tabled a number of amendments in committee to the laws, many of which have been adopted – as you have pointed out, Mr Custody of Seals – in order to extend the definition of rape to oral acts, to include minors in the definition of incestuous rape, to change the scope of possible perpetrators of incest. The text, partially rewritten in committee by the Government, has thus been considerably improved by this joint work. However, there remains one point on which our question remains, even though your opening remarks have partly enlightened him, Mr. keeper of the seals: the drafting of article 4 quater and the question of the limitation. The statute of limitations is the great law of oblivion of the drafters of the code of criminal investigation of 1808, the one which must ensure public peace. We all see this on a daily basis: the emotion generated by the presence of victims who cannot be recognized as such in a procedure is ultimately more important in the eyes of society and provokes much more reactions than the application of the statute of limitations, so that we can legitimately ask ourselves whether it should be changed. In this regard, it seems to us that there is a lack of a distinction in the wording proposed to us, a hierarchy between crimes and offences, without which a sexual offence committed against a minor could be the subject of a statute of limitations much more than a simple crime. Pursuant to the two-twenty-year rule, proceedings could be instituted until the victim's 58th birthday. If it is not our intention to minimize the seriousness of the acts suffered by the latter, we question the relevance of such a long period of time. The second point is of course – but you told us that this should evolve in our debates – about the crime and the prescription of the crime that de facto could go up to 78 years of age for the victim of a sexual crime. We will propose another, shorter wording, reopening the possibility for a victim to take legal action within five years of the conviction of the perpetrator of the events allegedly committed in the period of the statute of limitations. Among our questions is the question of the repetition that we have not, unless I am mistaken, dealt with in the Committee on Laws. We feel that a prescription that is too long has the effect of facilitating repetition. Since the crime is known, the perpetrator is known, the victim should not be given too long time to make himself known. It is also part of a legislative balance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] In any case, and with great hope in the debate that will take place in the next few hours, we will of course support this text, which we would like to see perfectly clarified. We really hope that at the end of the discussion we can say that before the age of 15, a minor who suffers sexual harm from an adult is systematically a victim of a sexual crime, without any exception. It is a clear, legible, understandable and intelligible limit everywhere. Of course, we would all grow up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u12	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u13	We see a little more every day the word being freed in books, on social networks, in families. Words come out, direct, sometimes raw, to translate all the suffering, the violence suffered, both physical and psychological. The victims denounce, they defend themselves now, to repair themselves a little, a lot, but never completely. Helping to repair, to rebuild, to overcome shame, pain, to restore meaning to life when childhood has been denied, trampled, stolen, violated: this is our duty as legislator. But we must also prevent, prevent the commission of these acts on which generations of broken children could not put words because they were incomprehensible, unspeakable, unspeakable. I have had the opportunity to say this on several occasions: the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats have long been working on this painful and extremely important subject. Three years ago, during the review of the Schiappa Act, we clearly called for a substantive debate on sexual violence against minors. In particular, I had stressed the need to provide for a non-consent threshold for minors under 15 years of age. We must now live up to the circumstances. Our sense of justice must enable us to overcome the obstacles that, yesterday, did not allow us to legislate boldly when necessary. That is why we look forward to having the opportunity today, thanks to our colleague Senator Annick Billon's proposal, to continue the work that was begun in 2018. In committee, in the National Assembly, amendments were adopted to adjust, clarify and strengthen the provisions resulting from reading in the Senate. It was essential to create a text that would meet the challenges and keep us as far as possible from unconstitutionality on the 15-year-old non-consent threshold. The age gap of five is in line with this; That is why our group fully supports this measure. It was also essential to mention incest in this text, and that is what we have done. Our group has tabled amendments to continue the constructive work undertaken in committee in open session. I would like, at this stage of my speech, to welcome the concerted work that has been carried out in the context of the consideration of this bill. Thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for listening and for having been able to restore our expectations in your amendments. Thank you also to the rapporteur for the cooperation we have been able to establish. After the dysfunctions observed during the discussion of Mrs Santiago's bill, it was essential to come together to arrive at a consensus text, which was relevant, fair and well written. It is therefore on the basis of this joint work that our group has tabled eight amendments. Among them, one is intended to correct an omission in the drafting of article 1e r by specifying that rape is also constituted when the act of sexual or oral penetration is carried out by the minor. Another amendment provides that it is also constituted, even in the case of a small age difference, if sexual intercourse takes place in a prostitutional setting. A third distinguishes sexual assault on a 15-year-old and incestuous sexual assault on an 18-year-old, as the commission did for rape. A fourth, finally, relates to the offence of "sextorsion" which the rapporteur has been working on for a long time. We have also tabled an amendment to improve the provisions adopted in the Committee on the statute of limitations on sexual crimes and offences committed against minors. In addition, we believe that it is essential to amend the title of the bill so that it refers to sexual offences and incest, in accordance with the provisions adopted by our Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must protect minors and punish firmly all those who would break their innocence. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will be at the rendezvous of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u14	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u15	First of all, I must express my gratitude to my parliamentary colleagues for their support for the long-standing struggle by unanimously adopting on 18 February a new definition of minor rape with a threshold of 15 years of age and 18 years of age in the event of incest. We made it very clear, when we examined the bill that I was defending in the context of the parliamentary niche of the Socialist and related group, which had been the subject of amendments from all groups, that a child is never consenting to such acts. The vote on this text was historic, and I was obviously pleased when, on 9 February, we knew that the Government supported the same position with regard to the non-consent threshold. The debate is continuing today with the consideration of Mrs Billon's bill and I hope that we can move forward because it is this text that will take shape in the penal code. I commend the work of my colleagues in this chamber and the work we did ourselves in the Committee on Laws with Mr.Secretariat of the Seals, Mr.Secretary of State and Mrs. Rapporteur to improve this text, which originally did not cover the entire scope we wanted to see incorporated since it did not address incest and provided for a minimum age of non-consentation at 13. It is the same desire to defend children in a very committed way that inspires us today and will lead to the protection of our minors. I had the opportunity to tell you, on 18 February, and I repeat today, that I am very moved to take part in the amendment of the Penal Code, when I have only been a Member of Parliament since the end of September. I am fully aware of the progress we have made in the parliamentary work that has been done in both the Senate and the National Assembly since 2018. In the absence of bold progress, as my colleague has said, this has not yet been translated into legislation, but I remain extremely determined to enrich the text proposed to us in a spirit of collective intelligence, as we have done in the Committee on Laws. The issue of the age limit is a matter of much debate, including within associations, and we have been very concerned about the age gap of five years. I am pleased that, in the area of prostitution, the most vulnerable young people we encounter in the context of children at risk can be protected by the measures you have mentioned, but I note that once again you refer only to the Government's amendment, while the parliamentarians have also made proposals, which must be accepted from time to time. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and GDR groups]] In any case, we are part of this collective work and we hope for this very concrete and even historic progress for our right. As the President of the Republic said, "we are here, we listen to you, we believe you, and you will never be alone again. This text is intended for the victims whom we are going to go with better and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u16	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u17	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for her co-construction spirit in considering this bill and, of course, to the two members of the Government present on the bench for their continued commitment to better protect our children, while respecting constitutional principles. This bill enshrines a fight of decades. I would like to thank the whole of civil society, the fabric of associations, the actors on the ground – which you met again this morning, Mr Minister, Secretary of State – but also the parliamentarians who have been involved for many years on this issue, like my colleague Santiago, who has just spoken. This bill attempts to respond to a finding: in France about two children per class are victims of incest or child criminality; 81% of sexual violence begins before the age of 18, with the first attack occurring on average at the age of nine at the time of the fourth grade. In 94% of cases, they are committed by relatives. These figures are terrifying: criminal policy, but also public policies in general, must provide answers. Victor Hugo wrote that all the violence had a tomorrow: centuries pass but this truth seems never to waver. When a society wants to be in the culture of protection, it must anticipate through systematic tracking, build operational tools that can be used by all professionals who work day after day with children in order to be able to gather their word. Édouard Durand, a child judge and co-chair of the commission on incest and sexual abuse of children, pointed out that victims of violence, whether adult or child, were often recommended to speak, but was it not for society to talk first? It is up to professionals in contact with children to detect the signals, and society as a whole to stop distracting the eyes of these abused children. The independent commission on incest and sexual violence against children, set up by you, Mr. Secretary of State, will carry out a major victimization investigation in order to free speech and better understand the mechanisms at work. The work will be the subject of an interim report in one year. They will also have to make it possible to develop a genuine public policy to combat such violence. I welcome this initiative while calling for preventive measures to be put in place even before this committee makes its recommendations, as was the case, for example, with the establishment of a single national telephone number for paedophiles as early as November 2020. The purpose of this bill is to establish clear prohibitions and strengthen the criminal legislation to better protect minors who are victims of sexual violence. It was originally intended to create a new sexual crime against 13-year-olds, in order to introduce a clear societal prohibition in the Criminal Code in order to better protect young adolescents from sexual violence that may be committed by adults. Article 4 provides for an extension of the limitation period for the public prosecution of the offence of non-denunciation of a crime or sexual offence committed against minors, which I welcome, while proposing to go further through an amendment that I will defend. In a press release dated 9 February 2021, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you informed us of the Government's willingness to raise the threshold of non-consent to 15 years and to 18 years in the event of incest. The Government's amendments, adopted in committee, allow the text to give concrete expression to your announcements. In particular, they raise the threshold of non-consent to what is now called rape at the age of 15, even when committed without violence, threat, coercion or surprise. A five-year age gap is set in order to avoid the criminalization of relationships with very young adults. Oral acts are explicitly treated as penetration, in order to avoid unfortunate case law such as the judgment of 14 October 2020 of the Court of Cassation. Finally, an autonomous offence of sexual assault on minors under 15 years of age is also created with the same age difference as a safeguard. Several sub-amendments tabled by the three groups of the majority have made it possible to improve the machinery in committee. The Action Together Group welcomes this joint work on both legal and human-sensitive issues. Protection of minors from incestuous violence could not be restricted to acts committed by ascendants. The final wording allows the criminalization to be extended to persons having authority in law or in fact. Incest is a particular sexual violence. It is a genealogical crime that destitutes the subject, which takes away his place in the family, in his generation. We take this dimension into account in order to truly protect minors who are victims. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This bill deals with many subjects, and five minutes are not enough to address them all, but we will be on the rendezvous with several amendments in order to participate with humility and determination in the protection of these innocent people in danger, these children, guarantors of the continuity of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u18	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u19	To constantly put the work back on the job is the minimum that we owe to the victims, some of whom follow our work carefully. While previous interventions may have left the feeling that we are returning to debates that took place a few weeks ago, I believe that we are collectively doing a useful job as we are going to be able to better protect our children, an objective that we are all pursuing. The news shows that our children are born and growing up in an increasingly violent society. The violence between them, unacceptable and dramatic, reminds us of how much we need to demonstrate prevention, pedagogy and education in this very particular period. I do not know whether the health crisis further increases the risk of violence, but we know that, unfortunately, such violence is not intended to diminish, particularly because of the very harmful role that social networks can play. This is not the subject of our debates today, but I believe that they are ultimately quite representative of what we must do to better protect the very young generations. The initiative of the colleague of the Centralist Union group Annick Billon, the important work carried out by the rapporteur Alexandra Louis and the text proposed by our colleague Isabelle Santiago within the framework of the socialist niche have led to a consensus on a number of principles. First principle, our rapporteur said, "before 15 years is no": any sexual relationship between a minor under 15 years of age and a major is a criminal act that must be punished as such. Since this is a matter of principle, we wonder about the establishment of a five-year gap that would not criminalize teenage love. This five-year clause, as proposed today, creates a breach of the principle that we have just passed, and we need to debate it again. Second, with regard to incest, the age of consent is set at 18 years because it is not the same as simple rape or sexual acts committed against a minor. He is a broad-based family member, and we will propose amendments to clarify who could be prosecuted and condemned as such, beyond direct ascendants. We know that family models evolve, and that other persons may exercise authority in law or in fact over a minor. We will therefore propose a sub-amendment to include half-brothers and half-sisters in the definition adopted today. The third principle is the autonomous offence, reflecting the specific nature of the sexual crime committed against a minor. It is the absolute necessity to disconnect this question from that of possible coercion or threat. I welcome the fact that we have reached a point of balance with regard to prescriptions. In committee, I spoke to you about "connectedness," minister, and you told me that this was not entirely the subject, but I see that our analyses have finally come together. The aim is to ensure that a fact that initiates an investigation allows, by means of connectedness, to suspend the prescription of other facts, again in the interests of the victims. I have no doubt that our discussions will lead to a satisfactory text even though it may have to be reworked in the coming years to better protect the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u20	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u21	Sexual violence is a source of terrible trauma for victims, who can haunt them all their lives, sometimes in the form of incessant memories, sometimes in the form of a traumatic amnesia that suddenly stops decades later. In more than a quarter of cases, violence lasts more than a year. Reconstruction is long and difficult. These traumas will affect all aspects of the victims' lives, their sexuality, but also their family life, their professional, social life. According to a survey, almost half of the victims of child rape subsequently attempted suicide. For victims, the perpetrator is often a relative, the first challenge is to be able to file a complaint: only 14% of victims would file a complaint. Above all, these complaints must be resolved. Recent mobilization movements, notably with the hashtag # MeTooIncesse, have generated a considerable number of testimonies denouncing this situation. This has not escaped anyone in this House, the demand for a reaction from the legislator is strong and the legislator is on the table. The associations ask that our law be amended to better protect victims of sexual violence. Our Freedom and Territory Group wishes to join in the process of building the most appropriate protection in our criminal law, in the interests of the victims. The need to establish in our law, like other European countries, a minimum age below which a presumption of non-consent applies, is now gaining the consensus of the various political groups and the Government – we welcome it. We still have the challenge of finding the most appropriate and proportionate legal formulation. Several proposals were submitted to national representation: a few weeks ago, our group voted, like the whole Assembly – the text was adopted unanimously minus two abstentions – in favour of the proposal for a law by Isabelle Santiago. The Senate passed the bill from the work of Annick Billon. It has been rewritten by way of amendments in the law commission by the Government, quite rightly. The bill seems to us to be generally satisfactory. We support the establishment of a no-consent threshold at 15 years, below which any sexual relationship between a minor and a major will be considered rape. We also welcome the establishment of an 18-year-old threshold for incest. We hear the debate on the relevance of imposing a five-year age gap. We understand the arguments of those who point to the risk of criminalizing teenage love and seeing an 18-year-old with a consented relationship with a 14-and-a-half-year-old girl face a 20-year prison sentence. But we also understand the arguments of those who warn about the situation of minors aged 13 or 14 under the total psychological influence of young adults who manipulate them. These minors must also be protected. The provision exempting the major who already had a relationship before the acquisition of the majority could be a compromise solution. With regard to the statute of limitations, if we hear the claims in favour of imprescriptibility, it should be remembered that it applies only to crimes against humanity. In the area of proportionality of sentences, it might be more reasonable to act with caution. Therefore, the slippery prescription proposed by the Government, under which the limitation period for the first crime would be extended by that for the second crime or any new crime in case of recidivism, seems to us to be a very interesting measure. The Liberties and Territories Group will support the bill in the hope that, after the many discussions that have already taken place on such a subject in our House, the text will receive a trans-party agreement and that its provisions will apply as soon as possible. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] I remind you, it's estimated that one in ten adults was the victim of incest. This concerns all social classes. In other words, in this Chamber, fifty-seven colleagues would have suffered an incest. How many have revealed it? Not much. How many keep the secret still buried? Too much. Let's make sure it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u22	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u23	Following the unanimous adoption by the National Assembly on 18 February of the proposal for the law of our colleague from the Socialist group Isabelle Santiago strengthening the protection of minors victims of sexual violence, this new text, on the initiative of Senator Annick Billon and placed on the agenda by the majority, adopts the principle of specific offences penalizing sexual violence inflicted by adults on minors aged 15 or 18 in the event of incest committed by an ascendant. Although late – progress would have been possible in 2018 during the debates on the so-called Schiappa law – the evolution of the majority and the Assembly as a whole is welcome. Remember, children are the main victims of sexual violence: every year, 130,000 girls and 35,000 boys are raped and attempted rape, in addition to 94,000 women and 16,000 men. Eighty-one per cent of sexual violence begins before the age of 18, 51 per cent before the age of 11, 21 per cent before the age of 6. It is therefore pleased that our assemblies are dealing with the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence. However, as it stands, the text we are debating today remains, in our view, insufficient. I would like to focus on the choice of elements to retain the definition of rape: the progress of eliminating violence, coercion, threat and surprise is immediately reversed by the introduction of the new condition of a gap of more than five years, which weakens the protection of children aged 13 and 14. Indeed, the same act of penetration, regardless of its nature, or an oral act, committed by a young adult of eighteen years of age on a child or children of fourteen years of age, cannot be considered a rape within the meaning of section 1 of the proposed law. It can be done under the current article of the Criminal Code if and only if the victim can prove his or her non-consent. This brings us back to the problem posed by the current definition of rape in the Criminal Code. To remedy this, our amendment proposes a new definition of the offence in which elements such as violence, coercion, threat and surprise are removed, in order to make it clear in the law that it is non-consent that differentiates a rape from a sexual relationship and not any circumstance, which is also sometimes considered for other offences as aggravating and non-constitutive. The many legislative attempts to clarify these concepts merely emphasize the centrality of non-consent in the definition, but by turning around the pot. From our point of view, we must now make this clear. This debate also gives us an opportunity to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers. In a nearly twenty-year-old but highly topical report, the Special Rapporteur of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography, Juan Miguel Petit, regretted the sanctions imposed on whistleblowers by the Medical Council and the judicial indifference to sexual violence against minors since the Outreau case; It also stressed the need for stronger protection measures. In addition to the continuing deficit in the reception and medical, social and legal support of victims of sexual violence, we continue to deplore the fact that legislative and governmental action is focused on the offence, which is at least contradictory to the objective of protecting children from sexual crimes, which involves upstream intervention. The chronic lack of means to effectively combat violence is well known: from the training of professionals in direct or indirect contact with children – teachers, school doctors, educators, police officers, magistrates, psychologists – to preventive actions to prevent the passage of potential perpetrators through the education of children themselves. The Government has recently announced its intention to spend €4 million over two years on the commission on incest and sexual abuse of children, which was established last December. If you do the calculation, it represents a maximum of 1 euro per victim...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u24	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u25	I'm sure you'll retaliate to me that much more money is being committed. So we're asking you: how much? How much money do you put on the table? It is not just a question of buying words but of putting the means, much more than it has been in recent years. In order to make significant and decisive progress in the fight against sexual violence, the text before us must be strengthened more vigorously. That is the meaning of the work we intend to do today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u26	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u27	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u28	In all respects, the issue of sexual crimes and offences against minors is also a complex one. We must reconcile legitimate emotion, citizens' aspiration and legal technique if we are to adopt a founding text designed to protect young people from this scourge that has been ignored for too long. I am convinced that, beyond our divisions, we can achieve this and that this law could be a remarkable step forward. I therefore hope that our meetings will be an opportunity to strengthen certain provisions and to raise new ones. The discussions in previous weeks have already made progress. The establishment of the 15-year threshold will provide greater protection for minors whose consent will no longer be discussed. The prohibition is clear. He's a must for all of us. A child who builds himself is vulnerable. The law must protect this particular fragility. Similarly, incest finally takes place at the heart of our work. Like crimes and offences against minors of 15 years of age, incest will become an autonomous offence rather than a criminal overqualification. In response to a high expectation, the non-consent threshold is set at 18 years. Fifteen years old, 18 years old: these two legal thresholds alone reveal how much the gaze of our society has changed profoundly on the sexual violence suffered by children. For a long time, they were reduced and ignored, not to mention the mad belief of those who believed that children were capable from an early age of opening up to sexual consent with adults. It is up to us to ensure that, never again, such a decline in mentalities is allowed. Unfortunately, there are some shortcomings in the bill. A taboo remains in our society, that of the sexuality of persons with disabilities and the aggressions against them. He's a fool. It must be noted that, for the time being, neither our debates nor this text contradict this finding. However, according to the World Health Organization, minors with disabilities are almost three times more likely to be victims of sexual violence. This figure rises to 4.6 when it comes to mental disability. For autistic women, the figures are instructive: 88 per cent of them were victims of sexual violence, one third of them before the age of 9. I will therefore continue to defend an amendment prohibiting a relationship between a minor with a disability and a person with a disability. I hope that increased vulnerability will be addressed by an enhanced protection measure from now on. There is also continuing concern about the provision on the age gap between a minor and a young adult at the age of five. Far from trying to criminalize what you have called, minister, in a formula that has already flourished, teenage loves, we are still wondering about the flaws of such a condition. The text is, for the time being, silent on the prostitution of minors, although this phenomenon is taking on a considerable scale in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u29	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u30	The Central Office for the Suppression of Trafficking in Human Beings reports an explosion in the number of underage victims by 600% between 2014 and 2020. Many magistrates are firing the alarm. We must hear them and act now to protect young people who are victims of the horror of the prostitution system. This omission will be corrected by way of an amendment – I have heard your comments, minister, and I welcome it. [[Mr. Mustapha Laabid applauds]] Moreover, even if they are not necessarily covered by the law, preventive and awareness-raising measures among teachers, educators and caregivers must already give rise to strong commitments. We have of course noted the willingness of the President of the Republic to raise awareness among children and the establishment of a systematic detection of violence against them as soon as the next school year begins. The programming of these actions will be the object of our vigilance. In the same vein, the time has come to involve society as a whole in the fight against sexual violence against children. The fact that November days, which, at European and international level, are dedicated to the abolition of sexual violence against children, are official, could certainly contribute to this. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text is very much awaited. It is part of a particular context, in which the words of the victims are freed and finally welcomed, where shame is changing sides and where the feeling of guilt no longer paralyses the victims. The law that will be passed must live up to these healthy and courageous developments. It will have to respond fully to the hopes raised. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will defend and support all the progress made by this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u31	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u32	"Some people forget for ten, twenty, thirty or fifty years. Personally, it took me ten years to remember. These words are those of Aurora M. It took ten years to remember! And for all the other victims, how long, and how much more to talk about it? For these girls and boys, the fear of not being believed, the absence of witnesses or violence, the shame of speaking about the facts suffered were all obstacles to denouncing this secret. Today, on social networks, the testimonies of a violent and stolen minority are multiplied, but as these victims become major break the silence, the fear of not being heard emerges, because of the long times and difficult conditions of the revelation of these wounds. Work on the issue of the violent minority has continued since the beginning of the legislature. Significant progress has been made: the sexual majority at 15 years of age, which makes it possible to no longer ask the question of sexual consent; the 30-year statute of limitations, which allows a victim to report a crime up to the age of 48. Our right adapts. From now on, the law must clearly confirm that no respite will be granted to anyone who physically and morally harms our minors. It is this great step – historic, Mr. Keeper of the Seals – that the committee's text proposes to do: to reaffirm the firm prohibition of any sexual relationship between a major and a minor and to enshrine this prohibition by autonomous offences. First, the text sets out the words of an independent qualification on the most intimate ills of a minority damaged by a familiar author: incest. In fact, in the Criminal Code we include a generic criminalization of incest, without age criteria or graduation of gravity. This integration not only meets the expectations of victims and associations, but above all, incest is finally clearly defined and independently criminalized. Rape, sexual assault and sexual assault on minors under 15 years of age are totally untied from ordinary offences. The minority is thus recognized as a singularity and not as an aggravating circumstance. Our group has proposed clarifications to make these provisions more intelligible. For all violence other than rape or assault, the continuation of the offence of sexual assault is necessary. This offence, specified in a public session, will allow for the prosecution of all violations, whatever they may be, in all situations where the minority is fragile – age, de facto or de jure subordination – when active or passive acts irreparably result in a danger to the minor. Secondly, this text, while protecting all minors, remains a guarantee of respect for the sexual freedom of adolescents. A balance has been struck in this respect, and our debates in committees have contributed greatly. Thus, the chosen wording introduced a age difference of five years below which sexual relations with a child under 15 years of age may not be pursued on the basis of new incriminations. They may, however, be subject to ordinary law in cases of rape or sexual assault. Finally, with the "slippery prescription", the victims are given additional time, the action of which is no longer confined within a 30-year limitation period. Important progress will also be proposed by the Republic Group on the move. Thus, an amendment to article 1 states that incestuous rape and rape are also qualified when the act of penetration is committed by a minor of 15 years of age on the person of the author. In the same article, with regard to the prostitution of minors, we propose that the age difference requirement in the first paragraph should not apply if the acts are committed in exchange for remuneration, the penalty incurred by the pimp being increased when the acts of prostitution involve an act of penetration by an adult over a minor of 15 years of age. In this connection, I would like to pay particular tribute to the work and commitment of my colleagues Mustapha Laabid and Ludovic Mendes in the area of child prostitution. [[Smile]] An amendment after Article 1bis B provides for the creation of the offence of "sextorsion" when a major induces a minor, by means of electronic communication, to commit any act of a sexual nature on himself or with a third party, including if such provocation is not followed. Here I want to thank my colleague Laetitia Avia for the high-quality work she has done on this and other issues, but also – and you cannot deny me, Mr. Keeper of Seals – for her fantastic persuasion power. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In conclusion, I would like to thank you, Madam rapporteur, my dear colleague Alexandra Louis, for the work that has been done on this subject for two years. I would also like to thank you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, and your teams, for the constructive work you have done with all the groups of the majority and the opposition in order to arrive at an ambitious text, with clear prohibitions and greater protection for minors who have been victims of sexual offences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u33	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u34	Here we come together a second time in a month to legislate on sexual crimes against minors. The burning news reminds us, if still necessary, of our immense responsibility in the face of the scale of violence, but also, and above all, in the face of the inadequacies of our right to protect our children effectively. This Wednesday, the Court of Cassation will issue its judgment on Julie's appeal, which calls for her attackers, three firefighters currently prosecuted for sexual abuse, to be tried for rape. It is precisely to put an end to these judicial decisions that are difficult to understand and painful for society as a whole that our law must change. In 2018, it was the now infamous Pontoise trial that alerted us collectively. Three years later, we have not gone far enough. We must collectively learn from our mistakes. This is the time to do so, by voting on this bill, which proposes to impose a clear ban and finally end the search for children's consent. Indeed, neither of us wishes to be confronted again, in a personal capacity or within the framework of our mandate, with the suffering of those who have experienced this violence, as a victim or as a witness, father, mother, aunt or friend, for they and they tell us the mortifying silence of the courtroom, the noise of the door that opens, the frowning of the robes of the judges, and then the word, the spilling of words, those words that describe the horror, and then the tears that are held, but which prevent us from seeing, and the remorse, at the same time, of having seen nothing, heard nothing. They also tell us the hope of finally seeing a page turn and justice be done. Ladies and gentlemen, we must live up to what they have experienced. Because it seems to me that we would not be gathered today without the courage of thousands of victims who have spoken and put words on the indescribable, I want to pay tribute to one of them, Adelaide Bon, who, in his excellent book entitled The Little Girl on the Ice, tells us the importance of justice and the importance of being recognized as a victim: "I like to look at the faces of jurors losing their superb testimony after testimony. I like that over the days, their dark circles get hollowed, their mask collapses. I love those jurors who sometimes risk to look at us, to tell us, the time of a beat of eyelids, their empathy, their humanity. By loving, by crying, I gradually appropriate the space-time of justice. Here where my whole existence is contained in a few words, here where I am still nine years old, here where the chaos of the world is ordered, where horror finally qualifies, I feel safe, I have nothing to claim, I gather, finally I look like myself. » [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit and Mrs Isabelle Santiago also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a historic opportunity to ensure that all victims feel protected by justice. Let's be up to it. For them, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u35	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u36	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u37	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u38	It is the first in a series of three amendments to divide the text of the bill into chapters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u39	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u40	As I have already said in committee, I am not opposed in principle to structuring the text, but the text has already evolved a great deal over the course of our debates in committee and will continue to do so, because I am about to deliver favourable opinions on certain amendments. In the interests of consistency, I therefore invite you, Madam Member, to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u41	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u42	For the same reasons as the rapporteur, the Government makes the same kind invitation to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u43	I call Mr Maxime Minot to speak on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u44	The words of the victims are free. It is a fundamental movement, which obliges us, because nothing is more essential than protecting children. The legislative framework must therefore evolve. I only regret that we have lost almost three years since the law of 3 August 2018, which has obviously not gone far enough, despite the demands of all actors in child protection. After that of our Socialist colleagues, we are now considering a text which Parliament as a whole must accompany in a common, trans-party and general interest work. It is in this spirit of adherence and construction that the Republicans Group has tabled in committee many amendments with necessary and relevant developments – I am thinking in particular of the fact that oral acts imposed on a victim in the absence of his consent are punished in the same way as acts of sexual penetration, in order to avoid unfortunate case law. Other proposals will be put forward during the debates in the Chamber, and I hope that we will be heard, particularly with regard to the statute of limitations. The main thrust of the text, which makes it possible to respect the constitutional principles of legality, necessity and proportionality, is the creation of autonomous offences associated with a threshold of age difference: a new specific crime in case of sexual penetration of a minor aged 15 by a major and a new offence of sexual assault of a minor aged 15 by a major. The principle is clear and unanimously shared: no adult will be able to rely on the consent of a minor under the age of 15. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As has been said, policy in this area must work on two fronts: strengthening the legislative arsenal, with this bill, but also prevention and follow-up. Of course, this issue leaves no one indifferent, and our responsibility is up to the trauma of the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u45	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u46	It tends to rewrite Article 1, with three objectives. The first is to create in the Criminal Code an autonomous section on sexual crimes and offences committed against minors, in order to show clearly not only symbolically, but also operationally, that these offences are not of the same nature as others. In particular, they should be absolutely disconnected from the concept of rape, which necessarily refers, at some point, to the question of consent or its absence. The second objective, related to the first, is the creation, in keeping with the spirit of the original bill, of an autonomous offence, which is also totally disconnected from the issue of rape. The third objective is to create a crime of incest whose quantum of punishment is higher than those of sexual crimes and the current quantum, in order to clearly show that incest has something unacceptable to our civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u47	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u48	My dear colleague, you are proposing to rewrite Article 1 entirely, by crushing all the contributions that we have discussed and that we have acted in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: you will not be surprised that I am not in favour of this amendment. However, I invite you to note that the principles that we defend are very similar, whether it is the age-threshold of 15 – 18 years for incest – or the extension of the definition of rape to oral acts – a welcome step forward on all benches – or the setting aside of the notions of violence, coercion, threat or surprise to qualify the new offences imposed by the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u49	I understand that we disagree on some points, but various amendments will allow us to discuss them and overcome them – I am thinking of the question of the scope of incest, of prostitution and of the marriage of minors. I therefore call on the Members present not to adopt a comprehensive drafting amendment, which would have the effect of bringing down all the amendments tabled to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u51	The position of the Government is identical to that of the rapporteur: request for withdrawal, failing which the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u52	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u53	The regulation of the amendments is indeed a bit strange: our amendment No. 73 should probably have been debated immediately after that of Mr Brindeau – in any case, before that of the Government that will follow – because it also concerns the words that we are going to put on crimes committed against minors. I understand in committee that the Government wants to maintain the terminology of rape, but our amendment, like that of Mr. Brindeau, aims to propose a different wording. Madam rapporteur, we are not trying to destroy the work that has been done – I think, in all modesty, that we have neither invented anything – but simply to go back to the wording adopted by the Senate, in which the designation of rape had been ruled out. As you recalled, this text speaks of sexual crimes committed against minors. Since I do not claim to have infuse science, I have used the few days between the committee review and the session review to interview minors about their perception of rape. They said, "A rape is when you don't want to. This is their perception of what rape is. Creating an autonomous offence that defines any sexual act committed against a minor as a crime may make it easier to read the facts that young people cannot name, understand, or apprehend. I think that is the meaning of Mr Brindeau's amendment, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u54	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u55	Let us be clear, Madam rapporteur: there is of course no difference between us on the objectives, and I think that everyone is well aware of that. As Mr Savignat has just said, we simply want to reconcile the principles we want to establish with each other. The first of these is that before the age of 15, it is no, whatever the circumstances or the assessment of the judge, society or the minor himself as to the nature of the sexual relationship in question. Hence the creation of a special section within the Criminal Code and, above all, autonomous offences, completely disconnected from the definition of rape. The solution we are proposing, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, carries the same legal certainty as yours, but it avoids the reproach of returning these sexual crimes to rapes of a particular nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u56	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 233 and 241, which are the subject of several sub-amendments. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u57	The purpose of this coordination amendment is to draw the logical and necessary consequences of the provisions adopted in the law commission, which introduce two new crimes – rape committed against a minor aged 15 by an adult and incestuous rape committed against a minor by an adult – and two new offences – sexual assault committed against a minor aged 15 by a adult and incestuous sexual assault committed against a minor by a adult – even in the absence of violence, coercion, threat or surprise on the part of the adult. As incest becomes an autonomous offence, this concept should be included in the title of the section of the Criminal Code dealing with rape and sexual assault, and not only in the third and last paragraph of this section. In addition, rape and sexual assault that can now be committed in cases of sexual assault, even without coercion, by a major in the case of a minor under the age of 15 or a minor under the age of 18, the general definition of sexual assault at the head of this section, in article 222-22 of the Criminal Code, must therefore be supplemented. The definition of incest, currently contained in article 222-31-1, at the end of the section, should therefore be reflected in a new article 222-22-3, before paragraph 1, on rape, and paragraph 2, on other sexual assault. By coordination, section 222-31-1 should thus be repealed. Moreover, the definition of incest must be supplemented in order to cover the acts of the great uncles and great aunts. Lastly, the title of paragraph 1, on rape, should refer to incestuous rape, and that of paragraph 3, which currently dealt with incest, but which would no longer include article 222-31-2 on the withdrawal of parental authority in the event of incest, should be adapted. Finally, these provisions require coordination in the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the question of incest before a court of assizes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u58	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u59	As you will have understood, this amendment is above all symbolic – because the subject we are talking about obviously calls for certain symbols. The penal code does not only have a repressive function: it also serves to tell the reality of a society, and to show the reader how the legislator perceives it. Today, the definition of incest appears at the bottom of the section in the Penal Code. If this is technically logical with regard to provisions recently adopted in 2016, it is, on the other hand, problematic for the proper reading of the provisions relating to offences – and it will be even more so with this law, which intends to make incest a real offence, not merely a criminal overqualification with only civil consequences. In line with the deliberations of the Law Committee, we therefore propose that you make the mention of incest appear in the various titles of the corresponding subdivisions of the Penal Code – this is important. In addition, the determination of the family perimeter giving rise to the qualification of incest is moved to the head of the section, in order to inform the reading of the repressive provisions. Finally, as the keeper of the seals pointed out, we take advantage of this reorganization to integrate the great uncles and great aunts, who are not part of it today, into the perimeter of the incest. I know that the definition of this perimeter raises many questions, including the integration of cousins, spouse's children, and educational staff. I already say to you, very humbly: these are all questions that I will not always be able to answer. On this point, the views of the committee set up by the Secretary of State for Children and Families will be indispensable to the legislator, because I do not believe that we can move forward without an in-depth debate. As I have repeated on several occasions in the Committee on Laws, we must be very cautious about an issue which, from a constitutional point of view, has been the subject of certain uncertainties: we must therefore discuss it calmly in order to find the most secure solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u60	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u61	The current wording of the article is limited as to the definition of the scope of incest – you have just recalled the reason – because it does not include quasi-brothers and quasi-sisters in the field of family members who may commit incestuous acts. However, although these children are not blood-linked, they, thus referred to in the scientific literature as members of extended fratries, are indeed part of the same family through the pairing of their parents. A sexual relationship is now described as incestuous if it concerns half-brothers or sisters, but not, for example, if it concerns a major and his quasi-brother or near-sister. However, siblings are defined not only by blood and filiation, but also by cohabitation and co-education. This sub-amendment is therefore part of our desire to protect all children in the same family unit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u63	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u64	It tends to take into account the concept of a recomposed family by adding half-brothers and half-sisters to the list of perpetrators whose sexual crimes are likely to be classified as incest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u65	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor in support of sub-amendment 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u66	The identical amendments by the Minister and the rapporteur propose to repeal Article 222-31-1 of the Criminal Code, which seems to us to be a serious problem for the proper holding of the debate. Indeed, many amendments had been tabled to amend this article, which reflects the willingness of many colleagues – of whom I am a member – to expand the list of authors of incest, to include, in particular, first-hand cousins and first-hand cousins. We adopted a similar provision on 18 February when we considered the bill to strengthen the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence. Other amendments also proposed wording aimed, for example, at ensuring that de facto or de jure authority over a minor could characterize incest. The adoption of Amendments Nos 233 and 241 would therefore have the effect of crushing all these proposals. In fact, the rapporteur herself cautioned the same thing about Mr Brindeau's amendment. The purpose of this sub-amendment is therefore to ensure that the work of parliamentarians is given the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u67	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u68	It concerns children entrusted to child welfare – ESA – whether they are placed in foster care or in foster care. The primary role of these structures is to ensure the care of the child who is, or is likely to be, at risk by replacing in law or in fact the authority of the parents. Unfortunately, we can only deplore the still too many cases of rape committed by educators or persons with de facto parental authority over the victim who, by virtue of their commitment or duties, have direct access to the child's body. It is legitimate to question whether sexual violence is an incestuous act when perpetrated within these de facto families. Child protection persons or services replace the educational role of parents and create a special link with the child. To date, there are no reliable figures on violence against children in the care of ESA, particularly sexual violence. The National Observatory for the Protection of Children recommends that a study be carried out on this issue in order to better assess the situation. The purpose of this sub-amendment of appeal is to clarify that a sexual act is characterized as incestuous when committed by persons or services who form a de facto family for the child because they substitute for the role of parents in a placement by the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u69	What is the Committee's opinion on the Government's amendment and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u70	The perimeter of the incest is a fundamental question which, in the course of the Assembly's history, has constantly asked our predecessors. The case of half-brothers and half-sisters, first of all, has already been debated in committee: it is included in the mention of brothers and sisters, since the legal language designates as such both the first brothers, born of the same parents, as the uterine brothers, born of the same mother, and the consanguin brothers, born of the same father. I therefore call on Mr Brindeau to withdraw his sub-amendment, which, in practice, is satisfied; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable. With regard to the first cousins, we have repeatedly pointed out a problem of consistency with the civil code, which provides for the possibility of marriage between these cousins. Moreover, they do not necessarily have the same home, a common place of life. There is therefore a reflection to be carried out, which could be carried out by the committee devoted to incest. The quasi-brothers and quasi-sisters have no blood ties, but life ties, which can break at the same time as the relationship of their respective parents. This subject therefore calls for a genuine societal debate. Finally, you are right, Mrs Provender, to mention the abuses committed by ESA personnel, because we are very often alerted to this worrying point. However, I repeat, defining the perimeter of incest is extremely complicated. With these ties of life, we are once again far from its historical conception, which is based on the bonds of blood. In addition, I would like to point out that sexual assault on minors, regardless of their age, is subject to aggravating circumstances when committed by a "person with an authority of law or fact" even outside the family circle. All this is the subject of discussion; I am sorry to insist, but we must be careful, especially since we are taking a big step in avoiding the search for the consent of minors. I fear that if we want to do even better, we will weaken our system. I therefore also invite the sponsors of the other sub-amendments to withdraw them; Failing that, adverse notice. On the other hand, it is in favour of the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u71	What is the Government's opinion on the rapporteur's amendment and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u72	As regards sub-amendment No 299, the problem lies in the fact that the concept of quasi-brother or quasi-sister is not sufficiently defined from a legal point of view; In this respect, she can certainly find her place in scientific literature, but not in the penal code, as Mrs Provendier has indeed had the honesty to acknowledge. I therefore call for the sub-amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice. Mr Brindeau's sub-amendment No. 303 to extend the definition of incest to abuses between half-brothers and half-sisters is satisfactory, since the law does not distinguish between brothers and half-brothers. Therefore, the same opinion. The same opinion also applies to Subamendment No 298 by Mrs Santiago, which aims to extend the same definition to the case of first-degree cousins. This would be questionable, as this link covers different realities, for example, depending on the size of the age difference between cousins. Sub-amendment No 300, also due to Mrs Provendier, provides for the incestuous treatment of abuse committed by foster parents. Such an extension does not seem appropriate. We rely on the scope assigned to incest by the current version of the Penal Code; Furthermore, as the rapporteur has pointed out, this is a case of increased penalties, with foster parents having authority over the minor under their protection. I repeat, therefore, I am not convinced that such facts should be described as incest. Same opinion as for the other sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u73	It was an appeal subamendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u74	Finally, with regard to the amendment, favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u75	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u76	As I indicated in the general discussion, this amendment is intended to clarify the legal definition of rape. Our colleagues have referred to the difficulty of introducing this concept into this text; However, since the law of 23 December 1980, no correct definition of rape has been given, so that we still operate in a culture of rape and not consent. The current definition is incomplete and fragile in that it is not based on lack of consent, which is rape, but on the judicial search for "violence, coercion, threat or surprise". According to Christian Guéry, adviser to the Criminal Chamber of the Court of Cassation, "it is time for French law, in accordance with European directives, to say that rape is a sexual act committed in the absence of free and informed consent. Consent as a requirement for a sexual relationship is a positive reference, which is used to turn away from the category of victim, and which bases criminalization on the freedom of individual consent. And it is when consent is placed at the heart of the offence that the presumption of absence can be made for certain vulnerable categories of people. This is the case today: that is why we are proposing this amendment, which would ensure the coherence of the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u78	You are proposing a legislative revolution, which should not surprise us. As you recalled, today we define the absence of consent through four adminicles: violence, coercion, threat and surprise; Since we have elements characterising one of the four, we know that the relationship was not freely agreed. My answer will probably be no different from that of 2018, where we had already had this debate. You want to replace these notions with the requirement of consent, but your wording does not define it: you therefore rely on the jurisprudence to do so. However, the present administration, enriched by legislative reforms, has more than two centuries of existence. When magistrates examine, for example, whether there has been a surprise, they naturally seek a defect in consent: these concepts allow them to address many situations taking into account the context, which is very important, because it is not because the victim did not say no that she was consenting. Far from maintaining the culture of rape, its current definition is quite the opposite. In addition, it is important to take care of legal certainty. Judges are used to handling these notions, and do so very well; I would also like to pay tribute once again to their work. The committee's opinion will of course be unfavourable: I am not to put down the work of previous legislators, nor to go back to case law when we need more stability and security in criminal matters than ever before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u79	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u80	I do not understand the amendment proposed to us. Violence, coercion, threat and surprise help to objectify the lack of consent, which is extremely useful. As the rapporteur pointed out, these concepts go back two centuries. The case law has looked at the issue a lot, we have written a lot, we have a number of real references; and all this should be swept away in the name of I do not know what consistency? I'm totally unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u81	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u82	We propose to take this step, not to sweep the whole history of the right from a back of hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u84	No! It wouldn't erase anything. This concept did not come out of La France's unsuspecting hat: other countries have incorporated it; Judges like the one I have quoted, legal professionals, researchers are in favour of it. It is also a way of changing our conceptions. Since 2018, yours has evolved well on the issue of sexual violence against minors! It is therefore possible, even if you do not accept this amendment, to include a reflection on the inclusion of non-consent in the definition of rape. The reality is that its current definition – any act of sexual penetration committed "by violence, coercion, threat or surprise" – poses a problem: it is by no means objective. The inability to determine whether the facts fall into one of these categories explains in part the phenomenon of correction, which means that rapists are not prosecuted as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u85	It's all mixed up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u86	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] It is not true that this definition is as solid as you say. We therefore call for inspiration from what is being practiced elsewhere. Again, other laws have incorporated the concept of consent: they are no more complex, on the contrary, and there would be a strong signal to foster a culture of consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u87	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u88	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u89	The Republican Group proposes to create a new offence that would be autonomous and independent of rape. This amendment provides for the introduction in the Criminal Code of a new article on the offence of sexual crimes against minors, aimed at punishing any act of sexual penetration committed on a minor aged 15 without the need to establish the victim's lack of consent. The offence of a sexual offence against a minor would consist of sexual penetration, of any kind, committed by a major over a minor of 15 years of age. The material element of the act of penetration is currently used to characterize the crime of rape. The precision that the act of penetration can be of any kind would make it possible to impose unambiguous penalties for penetration, whether vaginal, anal or oral. Unlike rape, sexual crimes against minors could therefore be established without the need to prove the victim's lack of consent. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This new infringement must respect the constitutional requirements of legality, necessity and proportionality. This prohibits the criminalization of teenage love and therefore requires a minimum age gap between the perpetrator and the victim. This amendment proposes that this gap be set at three years. Of course, an age difference of less than three years with the minor does not preclude that the perpetrator may be convicted of rape or sexual assault if the usual conditions of rape and/or aggression are recognized and met in the light, inter alia, of the interpretative provisions of the concepts of coercion and surprise contained in article 222-22-1 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u91	My dear colleague, I am in favour of two thirds of your amendment, as two of the three amendments you are asking for will be met. I propose to remove from criminalization the mention of adminicles, which does nothing concrete, and to specify that the penetrations committed as well as the penetrations obtained constitute the offence. On the other hand, as you must know, I will not be able to follow you on the issue of the age gap, which I believe will be our great disagreement on this – in any case, on Article 1. Indeed, we want to enroll in the real life, the life in which an 18-year-old boy can be in a couple with a 14-and-a-half-year-old girl. But I think it would be disproportionate, disproportionate or even unfair to send this boy back to a court of seats. That is why I am voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u93	It is unfavorable, because setting a three-year age difference actually eliminates any requirement of age difference: since the victim must be a minor of 15 years and the major author, there will always be an age difference of at least three years. I'm sorry, but it doesn't make sense. You have indicated, Madam rapporteur, that you are two-thirds in favour of this amendment. For my part, I am totally unfavorable – but I probably don't have your mercy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u94	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u95	I come back to the statement made by the rapporteur: this amendment concerns, for two thirds, the clarification of the qualification given to the facts. On the occasion of the presentation of your amendment No 233, Mr Keeper of the Seals, you have been able to measure how good the system you are proposing is and how complex it is to achieve results. It is necessary to start from the definition of rape, to remove elements, to add others, to trace the mention of incest in the text and to requalify it. Finally, we will achieve the desired result but without giving us the means. The means in this area, I repeat, are particularly important: it is the intelligibility of the law and its apprehension by minors or by young adults who must be able to understand the seriousness of the facts they commit. That is the first aspect of the amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] As for the age difference, we know that we have a disagreement about it. We will give ourselves a good conscience and ensure the protection of minors of 15 years of age in a comprehensive way but with an exception, the relationship of the young adult of 18 years of age with the minor of 13 or 14 years of age. However, if we consider that under the age of 15, minors do not have a complete understanding of what they are doing and do not yet fully understand the things of life in their totality, we may find ourselves facing cases of extreme distress, even if the classification of rape remains possible. We have seen it, alas!, tragically this week in Val-d'Oise, with young people aged 14 and 15: it is the poor apprehension of feelings and relationships from one to the other that led to the tragic events that occurred. I believe that we would all honour ourselves to protect minors under the age of 15 without exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u96	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u97	Mr Minister, we all agree in the House that the purpose of this text is to clarify and simplify the law so that it sends a clear message to all. But this clear message, you recalled during your speech during the general discussion, is that before 15 years, it is no! Yet, the age gap of five blurs this message, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u98	You're the one scrambling the message!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u99	I understand that it is intended to protect teenage love, but it does not stop it from blurring the message by meaning that young people between the ages of 13 and 15 are a little less well protected and that young adults between the ages of 18 and 20 are a little better! The initial drafting of the text, carrying a clear message – before 15 years, it is no – no longer involved justifying the existence or absence of consent. With the age difference of five years, you reintroduce the possibility of justifying consent. And the worst thing is that you do it about the youngest of our children, those between the ages of 13 and 15. That seems really regrettable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u100	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u101	I would like to reassure some of our colleagues about the justification for the age gap. This is due to two reasons, the main one being recalled: the need to arrive at a proportionate text. Our task is complex because we need to adopt a specific criminal law text with a general scope. However, in judicial practice, in life, there are as many cases as there are special situations; Criminal life is made only of exceptions. This is the difficulty of today's exercise. We would like to provide for an age threshold considering that it will suffice, except that we have to take into account the reality, and these teenage couples exist, there are many in our entourage. They may not always make a lot of noise, but they exist, they are no exceptions. It is a societal reality that must be taken into account. That is why we must propose an exception. I spent several months working, like many others, on this text and I did not meet many lawyers who told me that our text had a chance to pass the constitutional filter. I know that the argument of constitutionality is often placed in the background, but I believe that our role is to ensure it. What we are proposing is a historic step forward, which has never been so far in the history of our law as regards the protection of minors from sexual violence. We must take note of this progress. I understand the desire to go further, because we would always like to go further in this area, but I urge you to be cautious and to take into account the particularities. Let us not rest on the possibility for the magistrate to prosecute or not: let us take the responsibility to protect these teenage loves as well. When the relationship is consented, there will be no prosecution, but if the relationship is not consented, the regime that we strengthened in 2018 – I have had positive feedback on this – will obviously continue to apply...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u102	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u103	If the relationship is agreed, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u104	[[Ms. Laetitia Avia and Mr. Jean Terlier applaud]] ...and there will be no impunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u105	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u106	I take the floor again, starting where the rapporteur has just finished. There is the age gap and, cumulatively, the relationship must be consented to. It must be told to those who listen to us: if it is not consented, it is rape.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u108	That's what we're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u109	We're not here to make the Moral Fathers either. Realisms are required of us. 14-and-a-half-year-olds – I deliberately use the word "children" – have relationships with young men, and the opposite is true as well. What do we do in this hypothesis? And even if we look well, we can find couples who have known each other with this age gap and who are still together twenty after. Are they told there was a crime? Are they telling their children that their father is a criminal? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [["Congratulation! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As a lawyer, I defended innocent defendants, guilty defendants, victims. Sometimes it's the parents who file a complaint, while it doesn't match what the 14-and-a-half-year-old girl or kid wants, because they feel they love each other. What do you want to do about it? I don't want to be the censor of the sexuality of our teenagers. The rapporteur is a thousand times right when she says that we bring a lot with this law...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u110	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u111	...but you look at the exception. Let's look at what we're bringing. It's not, but there are these exceptions, those teenage loves that exist; I didn't invent them for the need of dialectics, it's a reality of life. It was Mr Rupin, I think, who said it in committee: the age of the first sexual relationship is according to statistics around seventeen years and a few months for a girl, often with an older partner. But this also happens at fourteen and a half years, at fifteen years, at sixteen years, and even at fourteen years. The difficulty was to know how to protect these teenage loves. We have worked a lot on the issue, in a work shared with you, majority as opposition. We had considered retaining the long-term nature of the relationship, but how could it be included in the law? And then, for young teenagers, you know, three days of relationship, it's an eternity. And if the girl has another boyfriend or the kid has another girlfriend and it stops, how do we do it? It was impossible to write in the law. The only solution that emerges to protect our children, sorry to say so – they deserve to be protected: they do nothing wrong, they love each other – is the age gap and this protection. Not many kids this age are watching our debates, I regret it, but that's how it is. On the other hand, they will know that we are going to legislate on what they consider to be the perimeter of their privacy and, forgive me, their freedom. We need to protect the children...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u112	Yes, but that's not what you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u113	...and also protect children who love each other. On the other hand, one must be intransigent when relations are not consented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u114	That is not the purpose of this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u115	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The purpose of this text, and of the threshold, is to say that within fifteen years there can be no consent, it is to prohibit the author from claiming I do not know what consent. It's clear, clear and precise. But there is this exception, and it is our honour to take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u116	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u117	Mr Keeper of the Seals, I believe that we all share on these benches the whole of what you have just said, in particular about teenage love and the fact that we do not wish to be the censors of it. But the text is a totality, and one thing bothers me. We have all understood that, within this age gap, the question of consent will arise, but this text also contains specific provisions on prescription. You know better than anyone that the issue of consent is a particularly difficult issue to deal with and subject to much debate. The reason for the prescription is to avoid the alteration of evidence but also memory by time. As long as the prescription will be much longer, imagine that we have to ask ourselves the question of consent fifty years after the facts to know whether this love of a major with a minor was consented or not... That makes matters much more complex, and that is why we believe that setting an impassable threshold for implementing the entire legislative system that we are going to vote for would have brought greater security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u118	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u119	I hear what is said and that I can share: no question of being censors of the lives of teenagers. In the bill, at the outset, we were planning, in order to make things very clear, a threshold of 15 years of age. We had, it is true, sought, with an amendment, on the side of sustainability, which made no sense in teenagers, as the guard of seals has just pointed out. Prosecutors are also given the opportunity to follow up on complaints. What we wanted was for the message to be very clear. The five-year gap is understandable but at the same time poses a real concern. Girls aged 13 or 14 can be very fragile, as it is known that the average age is around 17 years for the first sexual intercourse. The reintroduction of consent seems to me to be very fragile because some of these young girls, on which I can put names, first names, stories, thought first of all to live a very serious love affair, before their relationships take on a whole new turn. I am not sure that they can say that they were not totally consenting to the beginning of these relations, and I am afraid that this will harm them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u120	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u121	We have had a long debate on the age gap in committee and it is important that we have it in the House. With this text, a sexual relationship with penetration between a major and a minor under the age of 15 will automatically be described as rape. Until now, if there was no evidence of non-consent, this relationship was merely a crime of sexual assault. It will now be a crime, consent or not. It is therefore a very clear, very protective measure, but it risks, however, putting a threat of criminalization on consensual relations between adolescents, one of whom is a young adult. That is why the age gap of five is indispensable: to stick to the reality of the sentimental and sexual life of adolescents. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This reality was studied in France by WHO in 2014. These are the figures I gave in committee, I give them back here in the Chamber. I think they're enlightening. In the third, before the age of 15, one in five teenagers had sexual intercourse. And in the first report, girls' partners tend to be older than them. For one quarter of sexually active girls, their first partner was at least three years older than they were, compared with 13% of boys in this case. We see, therefore, that there is a reality of couples or sexual relations between very young adults, for a little more than three years apart, with young minors who may be 14 years of age, in any case under 15 years of age, in fully agreed relationships. That is why this age gap is necessary, because otherwise the provision would certainly fall under censorship by the Constitutional Council. I believe that this mechanism responds to all cases. It is protective for minors and for the sexual freedom of adolescents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u122	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 265 and 244 as corrected. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u123	The aim is to clarify the drafting of rape crimes against minors under the age of 15 or under the age of 18. The introduction of the two new crimes of rape of minors committed by a major under article 1e r is accompanied by the clarification that these crimes will be committed even if these acts have not been imposed on the victim by violence, coercion, threat or surprise. As observed in the committee, this wording may suggest that rape was not imposed on the victim. Moreover, it is not legally necessary, especially since the general definition of sexual assault in article 222-22 is amended by another amendment to indicate that such offences may be constituted in the cases provided for by law when committed against a minor by a major. It is therefore proposed to delete those clarifications while indicating that these new rapes will be committed outside the case provided for in article 222-23, i.e., in the absence of the requirement for coercion, threat or surprise as a component of rape.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u124	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 244 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u125	This is an identical amendment which aims to remove, in the new offences of rape against minors and incestuous rape, these famous adminicles of violence, coercion, threat and surprise. We had debated it in the Law Committee and Mrs Laetitia Avia pointed out the difficulty posed by their mention, which appeared to us to be incongruous: it would have been contradictory to tell the magistrate that he should not take it into account while mentioning them in the text. That is why we feel it is clearer, more legible and, above all, more consistent to extract them from the definition of these criminal offences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u126	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u127	I understand the aim pursued by these amendments advocated by the Government and the rapporteur, but it is demonstrated that the Government's choice to include sexual crimes against minors in the definition of rape is difficult. You want to go back to the wording originally chosen in committee, which mentioned the absence of "violence, threat, coercion or surprise"; you say that this mention is not necessary and even creates a form of ambiguity. However, we have referred to this ambiguity since the beginning of our discussions by saying that, in our view, it would have been preferable to create an autonomous offence, separate from the rape section. This would have allowed us to avoid this wording, which is certainly not inconclusive – it is legally well-founded, I do not disagree with it – but which is not satisfactory in terms of the intelligibility of the law. I am thinking of minors, who do not follow our debates but who may be confronted with the interpretation of this criminal law, but also with all those who will have to deal with these issues, lawyers, lawyers and magistrates, because despite all this there is still a zone not grey but of possible misunderstanding, even though it would have been much easier to keep the offence out of rape, independently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u129	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u130	Like Mr Brindeau, I will avoid prolonging the debate, but I would like to thank the Law Committee, because our request regarding the issue of rape, made on the basis of my perfect knowledge of child protection and the PJJ – judicial protection of young people – has been heard – it concerned many cases. By this amendment, the committee takes into account the problem we have raised and the risk it poses to the young people concerned; I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u131	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u132	We are obviously in full agreement with these amendments, but I would add, because I like to use the Coué method, that demonstrating that violence or surprise constitute rape is particularly complicated for victims; Therefore, why not protect them all systematically until the age of 15?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u134	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u135	I would like to welcome these amendments aimed at legal clarification – they will not change the characterization of the crimes concerned. It's about making our laws clearer; I think this is very important, including because the law, especially the penal code, must have an educational virtue. In the original proposed wording, the fact of writing black and white that the relationship in question might not have been imposed by "violence, coercion, surprise or threat" might suggest that it had been in some way consented; But that is not the case. That said, it is only a drafting problem: to delete this mention does not change the legal characterization of the infringement and does not add any ambiguity. On the contrary, it makes it possible to provide maximum clarity as to the strict and clear prohibition laid down by this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u136	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u137	I wanted to go back to Mr. Brindeau's remarks. I know that we are pursuing the same objective, but it would be very damaging if these offences were not qualified as rape. We started working on the subject four years ago with the DDF – delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women – and we then surveyed the people concerned about the idea that you are proposing, Mr. Brindeau, of creating an autonomous qualification for rape. We talked to several victims who replied that they did not want to because they considered that they had been raped. So we wanted to create two branches of rape: on the one hand, the "adult" branch as it currently exists, and on the other hand, the branch that we are in the process of establishing, which is very important. By excluding the above mentioned adminicles, here is what the clarification amendment we are discussing says black on white: when the person is under the age of 15, we are dealing with rape. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Mr Savignant mentioned the child who said, "I don't want to. Here we say to the adult: "You can't. This is very important and it is the culmination of a collective effort that we have been carrying out in the DDF for the past four years; I wanted to greet him once again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u138	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u139	His defence will allow me to continue the dialogue initiated with Erwan Balanant: it aims to remove the term "rape" to remove it by the term "crime". I know, Mr. Keeper of Seals, that rape is a crime; It is therefore only a question of semantics. I hear what is said about how victims can feel: it is obvious that they feel that they have been raped. However, the introduction of an age gap to preserve teenage love and its articulation with the issue of sexual abuse, whether it's over or under the age of 15 – when it has been shown that there has been some form of consent – brings us back to the specific problem of rape: the question of lack of consent always ends up. We have just introduced a principle that everyone approves and with which we fully agree: before 15 years, there is no question of consent; A ban is placed for the adult. I don't know if we could find an ideal wording; Perhaps this is not possible and everyone will probably remain in their position – the correct wording is the one that has the least drawbacks. The one you have chosen is certainly not ambiguous from a legal point of view, but it could, in the minds of some people, be ambiguous from a semantic point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u141	There are two elements to your amendment. The first concerns the age difference, which you want to remove. We have discussed it and we will do so again, since many amendments deal with it, but I would like to tell you once again that we must pay attention to the message that we send to our fellow citizens by adopting the measure concerning the age difference. Teenage loves cannot be regarded as mere exceptions that should be excluded from the debate. Then you want to detach the targeted offence from the rape qualification. I accept that we could in part approve your proposal: I can understand that it is complicated to refer to an existing infringement, with different components, to designate the one we are creating here, and I must say that this problem has emerged from the work that I have done myself. Having said that, I would like to draw your attention to the symbolic scope of the term "rape" for many victims and probably also for the perpetrators of such acts. That is why I am voting against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u143	Mr Pascal Brindeau, your proposal poses another difficulty: the creation of an autonomous infringement would not meet the constitutional requirements in this area. Then, in reality, you want to re-establish an autonomous offence of sexual crime against minors under the age of 15 without referring to rape. I will give you a very specific example: a 14-year-old is sexually abused in a meeting by both a 17-year-old and a 20-year-old. The first aggressor will be described as a rapist and punished for having committed rape; The second will not be qualified as a rapist and will be sentenced for a crime without a name.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u145	That's the problem! This example should lead you – that is what I suggest – to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u146	You take it off, Mr. Brindeau?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u147	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u148	I have before me three amendments, Nos 100, 99 and 101, which can be discussed jointly and presented in a consolidated format. Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u149	Amendment No 100 aims to protect all children, even when they are over the age of 15; the other two are back-up amendments. The aim is to protect minors from sexual crimes, regardless of whether they are 15 years of age or older.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u151	All these amendments have the will to protect minors, which I understand very well. However, I am very reserved with regard to their adoption, as they ultimately amount to prohibiting the sexual relations of minors, without age limits, with adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u152	If there's no consent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u153	First of all, I think it is important to recall that there have been many debates about the age limit, to determine which one was the most suitable – 13 or 15 years old. It seems reasonable to retain the age of 15 years, given the fact, it was recalled...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u154	If there's no consent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u155	Excuse me? I continue: the age of 15 had reached consensus, so especially when it was discussed in 2018. I think it's the right age. In addition, your amendments are a little disconnected from reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u156	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u157	As our colleague Pacôme Rupin pointed out earlier, there are many stories between minors and adults. If we follow your proposal, we would bring an exponential number of people to the seats; So I think she's very unwelcome. Finally, to want too much – or much – to protect, there is a risk of harming certain legitimate situations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u159	If I understand correctly, you want to ban sex before the age of 18...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u160	That's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u161	[[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we were to extend to all minors the measure concerning rape of minors under the age of 15 as provided for in the proposed law, it would be tantamount to criminalizing the sexual relations of minors between the ages of 15 and 18 with adults. Forgive me, but it is totally excessive and cannot be considered: I am obviously unfavorable. I said earlier that I did not wish to be the censor of teenage sexuality; If we took such a step, you'd see how our children would react! I guarantee you that for the moment, they would really be interested in politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u162	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u163	I would like to look back on the amendments by Mr Dino Cinieri, because I have the feeling that they are the subject of a misunderstanding. They would only apply in the absence of consent, therefore in the case of rape, of any kind,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u164	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u165	... committed by a major against a minor, even if these acts were not imposed by violence, coercion, threat or surprise. Minors should be protected if they are not consenting, whether they are 15 years old, 15 years old and 3 months old, 16 years old or 17 years old. That is the meaning of the amendments tabled by our colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u166	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u167	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u168	You didn't understand the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u169	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u170	To reassure you and abound in the direction of several speakers on the subject, my dear colleague, I would like to inform you that this is already the case: the text adopted in 2018 is not repealed, so the facts will continue to be subject to prosecution if there is no consent – and I hope there will be convictions. There will be no legal vacuum. This is not the proposed measure or nothing, as it is in addition to the existing one. It is important to remind him that there is no misunderstanding on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u171	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u172	As the rapporteur has just pointed out, the facts will be described as rape or sexual assault if there is no consent. Stop, as you do with these amendments, suggesting the opposite or that we want to penalise all sexual relations between minors and young adults! If there's no consent, there's a rape. From this point of view, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u173	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u174	I have before me twelve amendments, Nos 273, 215, 229, 242, 268, 63, 81, 118, 157, 171, 180 and 197, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 273, 215, 229, 242 and 268, as well as Amendments Nos 81, 118, 157, 171 and 180, are identical. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u175	This amendment provides that new rapes will also be characterized if the act is committed by the minor on the person of the perpetrator. Recent jurisprudence already considers that blowjob, whether received or performed by the victim, is rape. This amendment makes it possible to state this in a clearer way, which is in line with our desire to protect children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u176	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u177	Our amendment is identical to that of the Government. Thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for providing these important clarifications for the protection of minors. The amendment makes it possible to correct an omission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u178	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u179	As stated by the minister and my colleague Isabelle Florennes, this measure is a step forward in the 2018 law in which we have taken up the constant jurisprudence of the criminal chamber since 1984: whether it is administered or suffered by the victim, blowjob is rape. It seems essential to clarify this in the present text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u180	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 242.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u181	The tabling of these amendments, which seem to be unanimous – which I am pleased to hear – allows us to resume a step forward in the 2018 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u182	Mr Jean Terlier's amendment No 268 is being defended. Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u183	On the same subject, our amendment provides a clarification which we would like to see included in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u184	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u185	These amendments are intended to remedy an omission in this text. On the other hand, the clarification had been made in the 2018 law, by means of an amendment that I had defended on behalf of the DDF and whose wording was a little different. The current wording corresponds to that which we reached at the time in the Joint Joint Committee. As Mr. Houbron pointed out, we had written into the hard of the law what had been the constant jurisprudence since 1984. This, of course, should also be done in the present text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u186	Amendment No 118 by Mrs Albane Gaillot is being defended. Mr Mustapha Laabid has the floor to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u187	In the same spirit as the previous ones, it is intended to adopt the definition of the circumstances of rape as set out in article 222-23 of the Criminal Code, i.e. whether the act is committed on the person of another person or on the person of the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u188	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u189	The number of identical amendments shows that there is a consensus on all the benches to take into account the multiplicity of situations of sexual assault suffered by minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u190	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u191	We also believe that it is essential to include reciprocity in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u192	Amendment No 197 by Mrs Annie Chapelier is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u193	I am in favour of Amendments Nos 273 and 273, which appear to me to be preferable to those of the other amendments, which I request to be withdrawn. In the absence of a withdrawal of the latter, I shall issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u194	They're exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u196	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that we all agree on this provision, which will clarify matters and include certain case law in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u197	It's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u198	I suggest that the wording proposed by the Government be retained and that all amendments be withdrawn in favour of Amendments Nos 273 and 273.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u199	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u200	Sometimes there are mysteries, because Amendments Nos 273 and 273 are strictly identical to Amendments Nos 81 and 81, except that the comma is placed inside or outside the quotation marks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u201	Under the control of the keeper of the seals, I would say that the place of a comma can be of great importance in matters of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u202	No, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u203	I have before me ten amendments, Nos 34, 170, 78, 105, 216, 226, 245, 267, 149 and 181, which can be put to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 34 and 170, 216, 226, 245 and 267 and 149 and 181, as corrected, are identical. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u204	Prostitution, especially of minors, is a phenomenon of great magnitude, growing, with still poorly known contours but with very serious consequences. It seems to me that the entire national representation will want to deal with it within a strict legal framework that protects the interests of the child. The purpose of this amendment is to criminalize the use of prostitution of minors, whereas the Penal Code currently considers it an offence punishable by three years' imprisonment. This bill should go further and recognize it as rape, in accordance with a recommendation of the Women's Foundation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u205	On Amendments Nos 34, 170 and 105, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Public elections are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u206	Similar to the previous one, it aims to create a new autonomous offence of resorting to prostitution of minors for the reasons just presented by my colleague Gaillot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u207	I call Mr Ludovic Mendes to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u208	In keeping with the logic of previous speakers, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Mustapha Laabid, who, in committee, allowed us to open this debate on the prostitution of minors, which we have forgotten a little bit. A little different from Amendment No 267, which I will defend in a moment and which has been signed by the whole of the Republic on the move, the aim of this amendment is to take into account the micheting. This practice is not considered the same as prostitution in that it is not based on a cash payment but in the form of gifts. In order to mean that prostitution is not tolerable at all when it concerns a minor under the age of 15, we propose that this practice be reclassified as rape. However, I am prepared to withdraw it in favour of Amendment No 267, which is a little less complex. In the light of our exchanges with the Bobigny Public Prosecutor's Office, it appears that the average age of underage teenage prostitutes is 15.6 years old, the youngest of them being 13 years old. It is important to protect these minors under the age of 15. We will then talk about the protection of minors over the age of 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u209	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u210	Proceeding from the same spirit as that just defended by Albane Gaillot, this amendment seeks to remove from the age difference requirement five years the cases of sexual crimes committed in the context of prostitution of minors. As we have already noted in our discussions, the figures are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u211	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to support Amendment No. 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u212	This amendment removes the requirement of age difference in the case of rape of a minor aged 15 by a major, when the acts were committed in exchange for remuneration. It is essential that adults aged 18 or 19 who have sexual relations with a child aged 13 or 14 in prostitution should not be excluded from the new scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u213	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 226.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u214	I consider that he was very well defended by my colleague Isabelle Florennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u215	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u216	Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have opened the debate on prostitution in the Committee on Laws and who are defending these amendments in the House. It was important for national representation to address that phenomenon, given its scale. Similar to the previous two, this amendment tends to make an exception to the age difference so that a person of age who has applied for a minor prostitute under the age of 15 is tried for rape. It is a matter of considering that such an act is rape and nothing else.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u217	I call Mr Ludovic Mendes to support Amendment No. 267.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u218	As I said a moment ago, this amendment – identical to the three previous amendments – was signed by the whole Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u219	Mr Mustapha Laabid has the floor to support Amendment No. 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u220	Article 225-12-2 of the Criminal Code provides for a sentence of seven years' imprisonment and a fine of 100,000 euros for persons who resort to prostitution of a child under the age of 15. This means that the law in force considers that minors who are victims of prostitution have consented to sexual acts committed by major clients. If the legislature recognizes that no child under the age of 15 can consent to sexual intercourse with an adult, then it is necessary that this principle of non-consent also applies to children engaged in prostitution. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to establish the same level of protection for victims of prostitution as for victims of sexual violence committed by adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u221	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 181, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u222	Written with the Association Agir contre la prostitution des enfants – ACPE –, this amendment, identical to the previous one, aims to protect all minors under the age of 15 from sexual violence committed by adults, including in cases of prostitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u223	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u224	Identical Amendments Nos 34 and 170 aim to remove the age gap in prostitution cases and to penalise the use of prostitution by any minor. I will give an opinion in favour of other amendments for editorial reasons. For the sake of consistency, I would point out that the criminalization of rape will cover cases in which the minor is under the age of 15. Beyond this age, the applicable law remains the offence of soliciting a minor prostitute, punishable by three years' imprisonment, provided for in article 225-12-1 of the Criminal Code. I therefore call for the two amendments to be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. My opinion is the same with regard to Amendments Nos 78 and 105. On the other hand, it is in favour of identical amendments Nos 216, 226, 245 and 267. It will therefore be unfavourable, if they are not withdrawn, to identical amendments Nos 149 and 181, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u225	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u226	For editorial reasons too – because, in substance, I imagine we all agree – I am calling for identical Amendments Nos 34 and 170 and Amendments Nos 78 and 105 to be withdrawn. The Government is in favour of identical amendments Nos. 216, 226, 245 and 267 and therefore calls for the withdrawal of identical amendments Nos. 149 and 181, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u227	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u228	I withdraw my amendment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u229	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u230	If the identical amendments that received the Government's favourable opinion were to be voted on, you would make a major step forward in helping to eradicate the prostitution of minors. I would point out that the associations mention the number of more than 8000 minors who are said to be victims and that, of the approximately 40000 adult prostitutes in France, more than half have started their activity by being minors. In addition, the Internet plays an increasing role in this area and covers 60% of cases. The dating sites, chats and Instagram or Snapchat accounts have an accelerator effect. Membership is, at first, voluntary but occurs threats, violence, sequestration, and then drugs interfere... this to keep under control girls who chain five to ten customers a day in Airbnb rooms. So, ladies and gentlemen, you are about to take a decisive step by deciding that a client who uses a minor prostitute under the age of 15 is a criminal, that a pimp who organizes the prostitution of a minor under the age of 15 is a criminal, and by making it clear to a minor that it is not necessary to confuse hold and consent. Finally, the working group chaired by Catherine Champrenault, which the Government set up on 20 September, will make its findings and report on its recommendations on 20 May, addressing a broader scope than we are looking at this evening, since prevention, tracing, accompaniment, the role played by the Internet will be discussed. We will then need to build a genuine inter-ministerial action plan. I conclude by welcoming the association Agir contre la prostitution des enfants – and its president Armelle Le Bigot-Macaux as well as its secretary general Arthur Melon – the association Hors la rue, the collective Ensemble contre la traité or the Mouvement du nest. And I have a special thought for the Delcroix family and little Nina.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u231	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 34 and 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u232	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 16 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u233	I put to the vote Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u234	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 15 Against 62
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u235	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 43, 87, 98, 148, 121 corrected, 162 and 179, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 43, 87, 98 and 148 are identical. Mr Fabien Di Filippo's amendment No. 43 is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u236	We come back to the notion of age difference, even if I have little hope of being heard...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u237	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u238	I'm so disappointed, Mr. Keeper of Seals... But I'm still going to try, once again, to convince you. The age difference of at least five years, provided for in paragraph 3, will prevent the prosecution of an 18 or 19 year old for an act committed against a 13 or 14 year old: it will again be necessary to prove that the very young 13 or 14 year old was not consenting. Otherwise, if the child in a state of Sideration has not struggled or if fear of reprisals has prevented him from expressing opposition to the demands of the young adult, rape may not be characterized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u239	Yes, he can be!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u240	As I pointed out earlier, this age gap of five is likely to weaken very young children aged 13 or 14 and to protect young adults between the ages of 18 and 20 a little more. The adoption of such a provision blurs your message, and it is a pity, that before the age of 15, it is no, whatever the circumstances. Mr Savignat referred earlier to the statute of limitations. What about a 13-year-old girl who would have a relationship that she thought was a romantic relationship with a young adult and who, a few years later, the state of sideration had dissipated with age, would have to demonstrate that she was not consenting...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u241	She was!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u242	... or to demonstrate her state of sideration when without this age gap of five she would be better protected? That is why, Minister, while I understand the need to protect teenage love, I am still not convinced by the introduction of this age gap, which I think is too important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u243	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u244	French law does not recognize a threshold of non-consent to sexual intercourse. However, many recent studies on sexual relations between a major and a minor reveal the seriousness of their psychotraumatic consequences for the lives and mental and physical health of victims in the short, medium and very long term. Even if they are free of violence, it is proven that sexual intercourse before 15 years of age poses a proven risk of trauma. Therefore, the amendment seeks to introduce a presumption of non-consent in the case of a sexual relationship between an adult and a minor under the age of 15, and to deny that the presumption of non-consent applies only to the child up to the age of 13. The age of sexual majority is set at 15 years in France: below this limit, any sexual relationship with a major must amount to rape, even if the minor gives external signs of consent. Medicine now recognizes that in an intense traumatic experience, the brain sometimes mobilizes emergency dissociation mechanisms and sideration, which explains the lack of reaction of many rape victims. The victim of the attack is totally cut off from his emotions, as a spectator of events. This is what many of these victims describe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u245	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u246	It is an invitation to continue the debate in committee. You are aware, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that child protection associations, if not their opposition, express their concern about the introduction of this age gap of five years. Indeed, I repeat that such a provision represents a breach of the legal principle that, before the age of 15, there is no possibility of sexual relations with an adult and that such relations are criminal without the need to ask the question of consent. I understand, moreover, that it is necessary to protect young adults in a relationship of which it is difficult to appreciate nature and sustainability, but I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen: nevertheless, what can the notion of sexual intercourse with a young adult, for a 13-year-old girl, mean? The examples can certainly be multiplied and statistical data have been recalled on the average age of the first sexual intercourse of girls. But honestly, even if I'm a little old-fashioned, I'm having a hard time imagining how a 13-year-old girl can feel in this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u247	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 121, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u248	It's kind of a withdrawal amendment, because I understand that I didn't quite convince the minister. I therefore come back to the burden with a slightly different wording from the previous one. I still propose to delete the reference to the age difference of five years between the adult and the minor, but by supplementing article 1, paragraph 3, with the following sentence: "These provisions are not applicable to the adult who, before the acquisition of the majority, already had a continuous and lasting relationship with the minor of 15 years, and who does not have any authority over him in law or in fact. I have heard, Mr. Minister, the doubts that you expressed in committee, and then again in the sitting, about the possibility of defining what constitutes a lasting relationship between teenagers, but after all, this assessment would be left to the judge: I believe that he can be trusted to qualify or not a relationship as a perennial. It seems to me, without going back to the arguments I have already put forward, that the introduction of a five-year gap is dangerous for very young adolescents. However, in order to prevent young couples – for example, two adolescents aged 17 and 14 years respectively – from being exposed to the irreflagable presumption of non-consentation of the youngest when the oldest person reaches his eighteenth birthday, this amendment has the merit of specifying that the new provisions will not apply to a young adult who had a relationship with a minor aged 15 before his or her majority. In this case, the law would recognize the capacity of a minor aged 13 or 14 to consent. This solution would restrict the exception to the presumption of non-consent of a minor aged 13 or 14 to situations in which a relationship already existed during the time of the minority of the two adolescents. This would preserve what we all care about, namely adolescent love, since the new provisions would only cover the relationship between a young person who is already a major and a very young adolescent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u249	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u250	It follows the same philosophy as some of the previous amendments and aims to address the issue of teenage love from a different perspective than that of the age gap alone. I know in advance what your answer will be, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: you will oppose me that it would be very complicated, if not impossible, to describe what constitutes the "continuous and enduring relationship" to which we wish to refer. However, my colleague Philippe Dunoyer believes that this concept is necessary in order to deal with this issue in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u251	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 179.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u252	It had become urgent to change legislation in view of a dual imperative: to better protect minors from sexual offences and to impose an absolute prohibition by prohibiting any sexual assault on a 15-year-old. This text is a real step forward, long awaited by the victims and associations who are fighting for France to finally follow the path of a large number of European countries that have introduced an age limit to qualify sexual violence against minors. Some 15 countries, including Germany, Italy and Portugal, have set the threshold at 14 years, while others, such as Spain and Great Britain, have decided to raise it to 16 years. In one of its reports, the federation of La Voix de l'enfant associations points out that the brain remains in full development until the age of 15 or 16, and that it is therefore essential to introduce enhanced protection for adolescents up to 15 years of age, due to the deep traces of sexual trauma on the structure and functioning of the brain. [[Mr Mustapha Laabid and Mrs Amélia Lakrafi applaud]] The age difference criterion introduced in Article 1 e could create uncertainty as to the protection of adolescents aged 13 or 14. If I understand the imperative of constitutionality and if sexual freedom is a right, it must not go beyond the protection of minors under the age of 15. Therefore, in order to better protect them, this amendment aims to eliminate the age gap of five years and to introduce an exception to the new provisions, which would not apply to the young adult, subject to a pre-existing relationship with a minor under the age of 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u253	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u254	We return to the fundamental debate on the age gap. First of all, let me share with you a certainty: it is not possible to establish a 15-year-old age threshold – which is, as we have reminded you, a historical advance – without providing for an exception. Like many of you, I have been working on this issue for years, but it is true that it has come back repeatedly as part of the law assessment mission of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. First of all, I must point out very humbly that not all the lawyers interviewed during this work were in favour of the age limit of 15 years: some proposed to set it at 13 years, for constitutional reasons, but also with a view to preserving the adolescents concerned. The Commission decided to retain the age of 15. This choice seems very relevant to me, because it is more protective. However, we must be very careful and bear in mind that adolescent relations exist – this has been pointed out by many parliamentarians – and that we must take them into account. We must find a way to reconcile the protection of minors from sexual violence against them and respect for the relations between minors, which sometimes involve very young adolescents. This is the eternal difficulty associated with threshold effects: does a person change fundamentally when they go from 17 years, 11 months and 29 days to 18 years? Are his relationships with others transformed? I don't believe it. In order for the text that we are going to adopt to be fair and pass through the constitutional filter in order to effectively protect the victims – which is nothing insignificant, because, as the debates that took place in 2018, which everyone remembers, we are moving forward, in this area, on a peak line – we must therefore find the right balance. There is no obvious answer in this regard. However, I believe that the five-year age gap has the merit of being able to be more objectively apprehended by the judge, while at the same time being protective. You are right, Mrs Ménard, to mention the effect of sideration, because this is a very common phenomenon, which is often the result of very violent psychotraumatism. But sideration, I want to reassure you on this point, is taken into consideration under the constraint: even in cases where the new criminalization of rape, which we are preparing to vote on, I hope, would not be accepted, the provisions that we adopted in 2018, which take this 15-year threshold into account, would be applied. The judge will therefore take into account, in his assessment, the phenomenon of sideration: he will not be without legal tools to act. I will not pretend, then, that the withdrawal solution you are proposing is wrong, since I myself had put forward this option in the evaluation report of the law of August 3, 2018. In order for everyone to have all the elements of the debate in mind, I would like to recall that in this document I referred to two hypotheses in order to avoid overly sanctioning relations between adolescents: making an exception in case of a pre-existing relationship with the majority, or introducing an age gap. This second solution, which has already been used in some countries, has the advantage of being able to be objectively appreciated and also to protect the loves emerging at the age of 18 and 1 day – because they exist. Everyone is, of course, free to bring moral judgment to these relations, but that is not what we are gathered for today: our aim is to protect young minors from sexual assaults they may be subjected to. I therefore make requests for withdrawal or, failing that, negative opinions on all the amendments, in particular on identical amendments Nos 43, 87, 98 and 148, because, in my view, the removal of the age gap would be dangerous. The same opinion applies to Amendments Nos 121, 162 and 179, which seek to replace the age difference with another supporting fact. I believe that the proposed text is at the same time balanced, protective and constitutionally sound.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u256	The Government is opposed to all of these amendments. I have already explained – quite long enough, it seems to me – that the notion of the sustainability of a relationship could hardly be included in the penal code. Let me also point out that sometimes a minor and a young adult may have a consented sexual relationship that is not at all part of sustainability: one night relationships also exist among teenagers. I'm sorry to say that, but it's a reality. We may disagree, we may discuss it, but it is life, and this aspect of things must also be taken into account. This remark applies, of course – I repeat, because it is very important – only if the relationship is agreed: in the absence of consent, it is, I dare say, the positive common law that applies. There is no difficulty on this point. I also want to point out that the age gap is indispensable for constitutional reasons. It's not nothing, though! This is very clear from the opinion of the Council of State of 15 March 2018: a crime cannot be constituted solely because of an age threshold. A few elements must nevertheless constitute the infringement. The exception to the age gap is therefore absolutely essential for the text to be in conformity with our Constitution. We cannot consider a text of this importance without paying attention to respect for the Constitution, especially if the Council of State has already drawn our attention to this issue in 2018! Finally, I am opposed to the fact that the associations would be against the age gap. This applies only to some of them, as others are in favour of them. The associations converge on many points, in particular on the 15 year threshold, which I think I can say, for having received them at length with Adrien Taquet and having been very attentive to their demands, that he is not subject to debate. On the other hand, real discussions have taken place on the prescription and age gap. But pretending that all associations would be opposed to it is not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u257	That's absolutely not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u258	Differences were expressed, with a great deal of freedom, during our discussions: I can say that this point is far from consensus and that there are some associations which, perfectly understanding the pitfall of what has been called "dolent love", want to see an age gap established. I have already spoken at length on this issue. It is quite legitimate for us to come back to this, but I can only be consistent with myself – I am trying to do so, in any case – and therefore be against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u259	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u260	Let us not interfere in the sentimental and sexual life of adolescents. We have to do law here, not morals. I do not understand the amendments aimed at introducing the notion of "continuous and enduring relationship": their adoption would mean that we make the difference between adolescents who are in a relationship and those who are not in a relationship to judge whether or not they can have sex – and I am not even talking about the judge's ability to decide whether the relationship is continuous and lasting! Some referred to cases in which a minor under the age of 15 would be subjected to a phenomenon of sideration or influence. Of course, such relationships would be described as rape if these elements were proven!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u261	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u262	[[Mr. Jean Terlier applauds]] But if we adopt provisions calling into question the age gap, what message would we send to the young adults who, living a history of mutual love with a young minor, will find themselves in a court of assizes? Some parents, not always well-intentioned, may decide to sue their child's lover or lover because they do not approve by their relationship, including for reasons deemed unacceptable in this House, such as the sexual orientation of the persons concerned. These realities exist. If we want to protect teenage love, it is really important that we keep this age gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u263	I shall give the floor successively to Mrs Aurore Bergé, Mrs Laetitia Avia, Mrs Florence Provendier and Mrs Caroline Fiat for a period of one minute each because of the timetable and the fact that I have already allowed the discussion to continue quite widely. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u264	[[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] This text is fundamental because it will pose a clear prohibition for society as a whole: under the age of 15, one cannot consent to sexual intercourse with an adult. It is the protection of young minors, which must continue to prevail, as its title explicitly states, not that of young adults. If we keep the age gap of at least five years between the minor and the adult, this means that a child of 13 years of age, who is therefore in fourth grade, could freely consent, without being in a state of ederation, and without any harm, without risk to his future, to a relationship with a young adult of 18 years of age... Fragilizing this article as we finally respond to this essential demand for the protection of young minors is a risk to this law, to its concrete translation and to its understanding by our fellow citizens. I shall vote for these various amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u265	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u266	This debate is of course sensitive and refers to the discussions that we had in 2018 and that we must have in mind. I would like to point out that if a threshold could not then be set, it is because of a risk of unconstitutionality. And even though there have been reforms in the meantime, the Constitution has not changed. We must therefore find solutions because the constitutional problem persists. Two things one: either one tries to do in lace by writing a text that is adaptable on a case-by-case basis to determine whether there is consent or not, and one fits in with the current state of law, or one seeks to create automaticity by setting a clear rule, which also requires a space for the judge to analyse on a case-by-case basis so that it is applicable. And this is what makes the notion of age difference possible, since the judge will in any case check whether the two protagonists are less than five years apart, whether there has been coercion, violence, threat or surprise, and the crime of rape or sexual assault can obviously remain constituted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u267	Madam Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u268	[[Mr Jean Terlier and Mr Bruno Questel applaud]] In conclusion, I would like to stress that we are making a considerable advance in our right. But let us not forget the constitutional risk and let us not spoil it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u269	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u270	Several clarifications because it seems to me that my remarks were not heard as I would have liked. The associations clearly indicated that the brain building was not complete until the age of 15 or 16. Secondly, to say that it is "no" before fifteen years is an extremely clear step forward for those who have signed my amendment. I do not feel able to assess the risk of unconstitutionality mentioned, but we can already question the constitutionality of the 15-year threshold instead of the current 13-year threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u271	Madam Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u272	[[Smile]] Wait a minute, it's too short!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u273	But if I had chosen to give the floor to a speaker for and a speaker against, it would have been even shorter, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u274	[[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] Of course, Madam President. I will conclude by making it clear that my proposal is to remove the age gap of five years. Like Aurore Bergé, I do not think, whether you are a girl or a boy, that you have all the discernment necessary at the age of 13 when you get rallied to your institution by older people, especially since you mix love and sex at times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u275	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u276	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Exceptionally, we agree with Aurore Bergé, which will allow me to be very brief. I listen carefully to this discussion, but I wonder how we can associate in the same phrase teenage love and sexual abuse. That doesn't make sense. We don't talk about the same thing then, but in the second case it is no longer a love of adolescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u277	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u278	[[Same movements]] That is what is disturbing the understanding of these amendments. We can't compare the two and no one will have the idea of moralizing teenage girls in love. But when it comes to sexual violence, these amendments are very important and that is why the La France insubmissive group will vote for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u279	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u280	I'll try to be brief, Madam President. This debate is important, we have all understood it well, but I will only insist on two points. First of all, this text marks a major step forward, historic in French criminal law, in the area of sexual offences against minors, knowing that the laws must only be touched with a trembling hand, as Portalis said, and that caution must guide us even though emotion would of course encourage us to vote for the possible protective provisions. In addition, I am sure that if we vote for a text that does not provide for any exceptions, it will never pass the constitutional filter simply because the Constitutional Council appreciates our texts on the basis of their respect for the Constitution, but also of the principle of proportionality, to which this law would contravene if it allowed a 19-year-old or a fortiori 18- and 1-day-old to be sent to the assize court. That would obviously be unthinkable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u281	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u282	[[Ms. Laetitia Avia and Mr. Jean Terlier applaud]] Finally, to answer Ms. Fiat's question, I would like to point out that "sexual violence" and "dolent love" are not included in the same sentence. This may be the case in our interventions, but the aim is to exclude sexual violence from teenage love in criminal law. That's at stake. And if we did not anticipate a maximum age difference, we would be considered rape or sexual assault of the amours consented to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u283	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u284	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Isabelle Florennes also applauds]] I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you act on this progress and keep the exception of less than five years of age difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u285	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u286	Clearly, if the age gap provision were not maintained, there would be a major risk of unconstitutionality. What good way would we have come then for all those waiting for greater protection of children and minors? We would have done all this for nothing... That would be implausible! I say again that I do not want in my personal capacity – but each judge according to his conscience – to send an 18-year-old and 1-day-old child back to the assize court when he has a consented relationship with a 14-and-a-half-year-old girl who is in love with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u287	Oh, there! What if he committed a rape?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u288	And I insist that these couples sometimes persist and become perennial – not in the sense of the law, since this notion cannot be inscribed as such, but in the sense of life. There are examples of such couples that last for many years. And would you tell the children born of these unions that their father was a criminal when he was 18 and 1 day old? But it's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u289	No, that's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u290	We can protect and we have to protect the children, but including ours. For my part, I know what it's like to have teenagers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u291	That's moralistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u292	...and, even if this is obviously not the case for everyone here, I also know that many of you have children and understand perfectly that at the age of 14 and a half, you can ignite... And it would become a crime?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u293	I was pregnant when I was 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u294	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Nevertheless, we must distinguish between the predator who imposes sexual relations on children and who will no longer be able to say, because we gratify the opposite in the marble of the law, that there was consent, which was unworthy, with the relationship of a teenager and a young man, or of a young woman and a teenager. There should be no great discussion on this: at some point logic and common sense must prevail over the rest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u295	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-15-O1196.u296	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the proposed law to protect young minors from sexual crimes. The meeting is adjourned.
