ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Mr Fabien Matras and others to consolidate our civil security model and to enhance the volunteerism of firefighters (No. 3162, 4154).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u2	In the general debate, Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u3	The purpose of this bill is to address the recurring problems that have occurred over the past several years because the operational demands for emergency relief to the person have grown by about 26% between 2011 and 2017, while voluntary engagement has stagnated or even decreased within the departmental fire and rescue services – SIDS. The Action Together Group welcomes this bill; It is in line with Emmanuel Macron's commitments to develop an innovative and ambitious plan for volunteering. We would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Fabien Matras, who has carried out a long and high-quality work. As a member of the volunteer firefighters study group – SPV – I was able to follow all the hearings and preparatory work closely. On reading the report of the mission on volunteerism created by Gérard Collomb, the Action Together group became aware of the need to strengthen the volunteerism of firefighters. To achieve this, this bill aims to strengthen our civil security model, modernize SIDS and maintain our ability to respond by strengthening engagement and protecting civil security actors. The Working Together Group strongly supports the provisions to clarify the definition of out-of-home care, which will improve the accessibility of the service and the intelligibility of the law. It will better ensure the principle of security guaranteed by article 2 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. We welcome the work of the Law Committee, which has made it possible to improve the text. We are particularly pleased with the adoption of the amendment by our colleague Christophe Euzet, which enhances the commitment of firefighters to the calculation of their retirement by reducing from twenty to fifteen years and from fifteen to ten years the right to the benefit of loyalty and the recognition of firefighters. The Action Together group wants to go further by setting up a youth focal point in each fire and rescue service, in order to encourage young people to become volunteer or professional firefighters. This is the subject of an amendment which will be presented to you by the members of my group, whose aim is to accompany young people throughout the maturation of their professional project and to create vocations for firefighters. In the same spirit, we will defend an amendment aimed at enabling private and public employers to conclude voluntary youth firefighter recruitment agreements with SIDS. We will also support the amendment of the La République en marche to recognize the value of the national patent of young firefighters as a level 3 diploma, equivalent to a certificate of professional fitness (CAP) or a certificate of professional studies (BEP), which will allow them to access certain public service competitions. My group welcomes the fact that the bill draws all of its feedback conclusions and that a single emergency number is being created, which will promote better organization of services and, above all, provide more readability to the general public. This innovation, which has been recommended by the European Union for 30 years, will enable ambulance workers and firefighters to cooperate better within a single emergency regulatory platform. My group is reassured that the setting up of this emergency number begins with an experiment. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the adoption by the Committee of the amendments tabled to this effect by Huguette Tiegna and Fabien Matras. We will also support the same amendments by the rapporteur and the Government which envisage the creation of a new honorary mention "Death for the service of the Republic" for the benefit of military personnel and public officials belonging to bodies or entities usually exposed to dangerous situations, such as firefighters and police officers. [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] As you will understand, the Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this ambitious and necessary bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u4	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u5	At the outset, I would like to welcome the comments made by Fabien Matras, who just now, during his presentation, wanted to make further improvements to the text that we were dealing with in the Law Committee only two weeks ago. It is true that the work in committee has been done in a consensual atmosphere, as is appropriate when dealing with the issue of civil safety and firefighters. Mr Minister of the Interior, I would also like to thank you for your comments on the 2011 law, of which I was the author and rapporteur, but also for the real prospects you have announced for civil security, which go beyond the text and have budgetary aspects. However, you will allow me a few observations, not critical but constructive. Our country suffers from an overly vertical organization between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health – you see what I mean. This organization is a source of misunderstanding and conflict. The management of the health crisis and the crackdown on the single number, not to mention the local bisbilles, are all notable examples. And, as I said in committee, the prior referral to the Council of State would have been helpful in dispelling certain legal difficulties. As you will understand, this bill is in the right direction and I am aware that our model of civil security, which is exemplary, must be preserved, strengthened and supported. I will not recall everything that can be greeted in the engagement of the firefighters, in what some have described as a social miracle, but I cannot ignore the fact that, behind the 250,000 firefighters, there is an organization and multiple partners that intertwine: the Ministry of the Interior, the Fédération nationale des sapeur-pôtiers de France (FNSP), the departments, the mayors, the SDIS, the trade unions, the National Conference of Fire and Rescue Services – CNSIS – and I am passing by. However, these actors do not always have the same vision of the French model of civil security. I know that in the sub-hand, some advocate professionalization at a time when others want to reinforce volunteerism. Clearly, support for professionals cannot be at the expense of volunteers, and they cannot be considered as substitutes, to take up an expression dear to the former president of the Federation, Eric Faure. Together with professionals, they are a central pillar of our civil security model. However, it must be recognized that the message can be blurred. I will not go back to what I said in committee about dual professional and voluntary status, nor to the somewhat erratic use of certain hourly periods. A clarification from the Ministry, or even a good practice guide to all departments, would be useful. If I alert national representation, it is because there is danger and our model faces difficulties related to internal disputes, but also to the European directive on working time. I would therefore like to take this text to say it once and for all: the volunteer is neither a public employee nor a private employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u6	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u7	Again, it must be said; I note that the rapporteur has tabled an amendment to this effect, similar to one of my own, to Article 22a. This is all the more important since the Council of State, in its opinion of 3 March 1993, considered the VPS to be part-time contract public servants. It is therefore necessary to clarify things, hence this amendment, with which I would like to associate Dino Cinieri and many of my colleagues. But I repeat that the internal law will not be enough to stem Community case law on the concept of workers. It is hoped or hoped that the Community system will evolve, but be careful not to drift away from the various and varied advantages which inevitably lead to the SPV being brought closer to the qualification of workers. Having said that, I note, Mr Minister, that you have made it very clear that France will ensure, at European level, that the specificity of its model is taken into account. This is a crucial point for the future of our civil security model. On the other hand, I have tabled amendments calling for reports, not for the pleasure of having reports, but for objective audits to be carried out both on the law on patronage, associations and foundations, on the financing of civil security or on the retirement of VPS. I have also tabled amendments on the status of ENSOSP, the National High School of Fire Officers, on the creation of a corps of senior officers, on free motorways – indeed, the Ciotti amendment was a good thing but the decree in the Council of State has still not been taken – on insurance premiums, on the NPFR, the new loyalty and recognition service, and on accidents in service. The debate is therefore open. Finally, let me stress the recurring issue of employers, who are less and less inclined to recruit a VPS or to give it opportunities to leave, especially during the day. Imagine the situation of an employer – carpenter, roofer or electrician – who sees his only employee leave in several interventions, sometimes on prefectural requisition as I witnessed in my department of Lozère. Once it's okay, twice it goes much less, three times the damage! That is the reality of companies. Financial and/or tax assistance will not be saved, beyond the mere citizen employer's label. The vocation crisis, the decline in the number of volunteers and the reduction in the duration of the appointment have been duly observed for too many years. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Beyond this, I note some progress and of course I will vote without difficulty on this bill with my group. In conclusion, allow me to greet all the group chairmen, but also Fabien Matras, for the difficult work that has been done for months with your services, Minister. I would also like to welcome, through Colonel Grégory Allion, the involvement of the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France, which has provided us with objective insight into issues that merited legislative progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u8	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u9	The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the unwavering commitment of firefighters, as we ask them again well beyond their responsibilities. They quickly became an essential link in the management of the health crisis, whether it is to carry out administrative tasks, to vaccinate or to ensure the travel of many people with reduced mobility in our territory. In France, 79% of firefighters, i.e. 198000 women and men, are volunteers and live their commitment to the service of others in parallel with their professional activity or their studies, during their evenings, weekends or holidays. We thank them and we welcome the fact that our civil security model offers a public outreach service in each territory. The ambitious bill we are considering is the result of an important collaborative effort. It was co-signed by all members of the Freedom and Territory Group, who salute the rapporteur for the quality of his work. The examination in committee allowed us to deepen several key points of this text and to reach a broad, trans-party consensus. We welcome the adoption in committee of a definition of out-of-home care and the right to time-limits. However, an amendment by the Government removed the possibility of post-qualification for out-of-the-court deficiency. We regret this and call for the reinstatement of the original wording. As the attractiveness of the status of a volunteer firefighter has declined in recent years, it is important to make better use of this commitment, including in financial and social terms. We therefore propose a number of amendments aimed at lowering the age threshold for the new retention and recognition benefit and increasing the gratuity of firefighters with more than 30 years of service. We will pay close attention to the Minister's commitment to our assembly to double the amount of the NPFR, which falls within the regulatory framework. A relaxation of the training course and a simplification of access to volunteering would also be welcome. The rewriting of Article 31 in committee is satisfactory. The generalisation of the single platforms bringing together fire and rescue centres and SAMU must, however, be adapted to the wishes of the actors in the different territories. The introduction of a three-year experiment, which will allow testing of combinations with a view to establishing a single emergency number, 112, must be kept. We are satisfied with the common will to ensure the sustainability of the status of a voluntary firefighter, threatened by European law, which equates volunteer firefighters with employees. We now want a clear commitment from the Government to launch an initiative at the European level to protect this status. Finally, it is imperative that this text takes account of the specificities of the territories and that, in addition to the urban reorganisation, there is a reorganisation in the rural world, particularly in regions such as Corsica, where some mountain territories experience considerable influxes of population during the tourist seasons and see a sharp increase in the number of interventions and their costs. Since the categorization of departments did not allow for their particularities to be taken into account, some territories were in short supply of staff and financial resources. Thus, the Vaucluse has 450 professionals against 250 in Corsica, for the same number of interventions over the year. This bill must at all costs be avoided as a two-speed text, much more efficient for the major departments. Let us give the firefighters the financing and organisational solutions they ask for, in order to enable them to exercise as best as possible their profession essential for assistance to the population, spatial planning and social ties in the rural world. Firefighters fear governance by numbers, by statistics decorated with their daily lives. They know that the model is only a thread, while in many parts of the territory they are the last link in the public service. It is up to us to ensure the sustainability of this model that we all care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u10	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u11	Of course, we welcome this bill, just as we did two years ago, when our assembly considered a proposal for a law on SIDS and the profession of firefighter. We pay tribute to the professional and volunteer firefighters, who intervene every day in situations as diverse as they are complex. Our colleague Caroline Fiat, who recently spent a day with them, can testify to the fact that their commitment, which should be greeted, is not a rest! However, it is also my responsibility to say in this forum that the bill before us does not address the fundamental issue of the status of volunteers, linked to that of working time. Since the dispute was opened at European level two years ago, the minister said he would obtain from the European Commission that the European Directive on working time does not apply to volunteer firefighters. Of course, he has come back in a bad way, which leads us today to state in the law that a volunteer firefighter is not an employee, so that the directive in question cannot apply and endanger the status of volunteerism. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] The current situation still has several pitfalls. First, many volunteer firefighters are also professional firefighters. We said that two years ago, but the situation remained unchanged. I understand that some firefighters prefer to receive compensation from volunteer firefighters rather than overtime for professional firefighters: the tax advantage is not exactly the same, and I would probably do the same for them! That said, this situation is not satisfactory, especially in the event of an emergency plan being launched – I am thinking in particular of the white plans. In such a situation, all professionals are requisitioned, and you cannot appeal twice to the same person, on the one hand as a professional, on the other hand as a volunteer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u13	There is also a second difficulty, namely that volunteer firefighters are often caregivers, so precisely the personnel who will be mobilized as a matter of priority under the White Plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u14	We lived it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u15	The problem is not theoretical: health disasters sometimes make it necessary to activate emergency plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u16	Yes, it happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u17	The working time directive, which I have discussed with trade union firefighters, is not meant to bother the world nor to prevent too much work! Its objective is to argue that when you do too many hours of work, you become less effective in your missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u19	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u20	You may say, "So what? The firefighters with whom I spoke reminded me that when they work too much, some professionals may find themselves in a situation of extreme physical suffering, which endangers their lives and the lives of others. The fundamental question is that if we are so willing to promote volunteering, it is above all because it costs less! That's the reality: it's "efficient", as we say in economic jargon. This economic efficiency, however, will have to be called into question in order to give the professionals who intervene on a daily basis the means to carry out their missions without putting themselves in danger and by being up to the service expected of the French and French. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] We are not opposed to the text before us, as it contains many advances that we will support – and although several points will give rise to debate, particularly on the question of 112, we will probably vote on it. Unfortunately, as far as the fundamental issue I have just mentioned is concerned, it completely ignores the objective that it should pursue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u21	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u22	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u23	Today we are dealing with a bill that should bring us together, which is rather rare in a context where parliamentary work is considerably diminished by the succession or even the overlap of important texts discussed on a forced march, such as the extension of the state of emergency, the organisation of justice or the fight against terrorism. But what is the alchemy that offers us this exceptional parliamentary event? First of all, we must undoubtedly see in it the French specificity of a civil security that has been built over the centuries. Night watches organized in the Middle Ages by the inhabitants and artisans of our cities to the contribution of the fireguards created by a royal ordinance of 1716, from the National Guard of the Revolution to the creation of the firefighters of Paris by imperial decree in 1811, until the formation of communal bodies in 1875, civil security in our country was founded on four pillars: on the one hand, the civic commitment and professionalism of firefighters, on the other hand, the local authorities – communes and departments – and the State in one of its public security missions. Secondly, we must welcome the shared desire to take into account the ever-changing strategic issues, in order to advance our legislative arsenal through successive laws – 2001, 2004, 2012 and now well-named, following an amendment adopted in committee, "proposal for a law aimed at consolidating our civil security model and valuing the volunteerism of firefighters and professional firefighters". The bill before us today, defended by Fabien Matras and identical to that tabled by Pierre Morel -À- L'Huissier, has received the support of all the political groups of the Assembly. With a new ambition for civil security and volunteer firefighters, it responds to promises made to firefighters and to the observation of structural difficulties that require adaptation. We need to strengthen our civil safety model by better allocating the flow and burden of emergency response between ambulances and firefighters. There is also a need to clarify the internal chain of command, which should allow volunteers to take on responsibility functions. It will also pave the way for a better recognition of the commitment by granting the quality of ward of the nation to the descendants of firefighters killed during relief operations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u25	... and by strengthening the State's responsibility for the social protection of volunteers. It will take better account of the violence against our firefighters by condemning more strongly the acts committed against them. The bill must also be an opportunity to move towards a single emergency call number, 112, in the interests of effective public action. On the latter point, however, it appears that there is reluctance within the UAS and the hospital community. I have no doubt that our discussions will help to remove the concerns in full transparency, with a single objective that brings us all together: to make the victims lose no chance. I doubt it all the less because many common trays already exist, in some twenty departments: for some more than thirty years, as is the case in the Puy-de-Dôme, they prove their effectiveness every day, both in speed and in interoperability. Questions also arise as to the fact that this text would result in the decaptification of the departmental fire and rescue services, with the fear that the departmental and local connection would disappear in favour of a new centralised organisation under the NexSIS 18-112 programme, led by the Civil Security Digital Agency, whose creation decree was cancelled by the Council of State on 14 October 2020. With regard to this draft which is never mentioned, the text again raises some concerns about the transition between the present system and the one which it advocates. It is necessary to remove these concerns in our debates and I have no doubt that the rapporteur and the minister will provide all the necessary clarifications so that there are no more points implied or obscured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u26	There! That's what we're waiting for!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group]] As you will have understood, the vote by the GDR Group will be in favour of the content of the text, but also, in view of the debates in committee, open to questions and amendments of any origin, in particular the one aimed at the recognition of young firefighters, adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u28	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u29	Since the beginning of the legislature, the modernization of civil security and the preservation of the French relief model in the light of the European directive have been at the heart of our commitment and that of the President of the Republic. In order to strengthen this unique model, many measures have been implemented. In September 2018, Mr Gérard Collomb, then Minister of the Interior, presented the action plan 2019-2020, aimed at consolidating the altruistic model and diversifying the recruitment of volunteer firefighters. In May 2018, our colleague rapporteur Fabien Matras submitted to the Minister of the Interior a report on the volunteerism of firefighters, which already reflected the ambition of the Government and the majority in the National Assembly to commit themselves to the modernization of civil security and the preservation of the French relief model. Nearly 80% of firefighters are volunteers: without them, the French rescue model will not be able to survive; Without them, we would not have shown the same resilience in the face of covid-19 – let's not forget that they were, alongside caregivers, in the front line. A true third internal security force, firefighters represent an indelible response to help our citizens face natural and technological, health and industrial risks. We must preserve this model that promotes security and response to emergency on the basis of a fraternal bond. Let us therefore welcome the unwavering commitment to serving the nation of the 250,000 firefighters and the 30,000 young firefighters. Yet, the actors in our civil security model are heavily constrained in the performance of their missions. Operational demands for personal emergency relief increased by 26% between 2011 and 2017. In 2019, France's firefighters carried out almost 5 million operations, an intervention every 6.5 seconds. In addition to this, the stagnation or even the decrease in voluntary recruitment can be explained by many reasons: the decline in associative involvement, the strong reluctance of employers to release employees during their working hours or the difficulties of recruitment. In addition, the duration of appointments is becoming shorter. If the training period is taken into account, it is feared that the situation will soon become worrying. The increasing insecurity of interventions is also a matter of concern. Physical or verbal assaults on firefighters have increased by 213 per cent in 10 years. The plan to prevent and combat attacks against firefighters, launched last summer by Minister Gérald Darmanin, was an essential step in this regard. The bill to consolidate our civil safety model and to enhance the volunteerism of firefighters tends to remedy these problems. Tabled last summer by the La République group on the move, it was co-signed by more than 500 deputies from all sides. It is the result of a trans-party dialogue and brings us all together, as the stakes are important. The La République en marche Group welcomes this bill which adapts our SIDS to the challenges of contemporary society. While relief missions are cross-cutting and common to many actors in the field, SIDS has gradually concentrated on the personal relief services, which account for 84 per cent of the response. In these circumstances, three main issues need to be addressed: the integration of the concept of emergency care into SIDS missions, the definition of out-of-court deficiency and the establishment of common platforms for the regulation of emergency calls. These three points have been constantly monitored to ensure that all actors involved in emergency relief can play their role to the best of their abilities. Contrary to what has been heard, this text does not remove medical regulation and does not diminish the role of health professionals, but aims to strengthen synergies between health and civil safety actors. It is not a text for one to the detriment of the other, it is a text in favour of our model of civil security in the service of the French. Our group has tabled amendments to raise the ambition of this bill even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u30	Please conclude, Mrs. Tiegna.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u31	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We owe it to those who commit themselves, at the risk of their lives, to the service of the nation. We owe it to those who give without counting and who make our collective pride. Finally, I would like to thank the firefighters of France in general and those of the Lot in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u32	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u33	France has a very specific civil security model of which we are particularly proud. It ensures throughout the country the presence of firefighters with our fellow citizens. The latter are massively attached to them, but do not always measure the nature of their commitments and the extent – including numbers – of volunteering, which determines the very sustainability of the model. This model, France stands for it because it is in its DNA and it defends it against a European technocracy that places serious threats on it. If we want to secure its future, we must politically affirm its usefulness and effectiveness and finally close the debates which instill doubts as to its sustainability. We're counting on you, Minister, to go...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u34	Manifest?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u35	... at the end of this ambition as quickly as possible. This model, if we want to make it last, obviously it needs to be adapted and modernised to enable it to meet the societal and human realities of our time. It is, I think, the main pretension of the bill by Mr Fabien Matras that we are proud to defend with him and with Members of Parliament from all walks of life who have been committed to meeting the long-standing expectations expressed by our firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u37	Before this legislature, Members of Parliament, some of whom are present today, worked on this major subject and steps were taken. In recent years, the Republican Group has made a significant contribution to this reflection, notably through a bill. It didn't succeed, but whatever it is, we have to move forward. To mark our unwavering support and gratitude to firefighters, we immediately endorsed the approach that inspired this text and participated in its drafting. I welcome the spirit that allowed us to be so numerous in signing it and to apply to many of its articles the procedure of legislation in committee fifteen days ago. We still need to discuss key points for the turn we want to take. On volunteering, a difficult balance between the legal environment I mentioned and the pressing need to reinforce and recognize commitment was found. Those who choose to give their time and energy and take risks to secure the lives and property of others deserve signs and evidence. We are in favour of what is contained in this text and of the final compromises resulting from the discussion between the meetings in committee and our debates in open session, particularly with regard to the allocation of housing. With regard to the increase and strengthening of sanctions against the perpetrators of acts of violence against firefighters, it goes without saying that we are fully in line with the proposals of this text and call for the strictest possible application of the new provisions as soon as they enter into force. It is more than urgent that our security forces enjoy the same protections as law enforcement forces, with which they most often intervene. During the hearings, many of us shared the concerns of our firefighters in the face of the rising violence. They can count on our firmness and unwavering support. As for the single issue, it has almost exclusively occupied our debates in recent weeks. I say here that the compromises we achieve through this text are satisfactory: we support them and we will support them. They clearly pave the way for a change in the way emergency calls are managed, while at the same time being flexible, depending on the specific territorial circumstances and the local will of the actors, without being mandatory – this is the case. We understand that there is no need to push, exclude, or coerce, but the only concern that needs to be addressed is the readability of our system for the user citizen, on the one hand, and the responsiveness of services in a sense of proximity, on the other. We are very attached to the departmental level and have stressed this very much in the course of the discussions. The text puts it forward through the proposal for experimentation. This guarantee makes it possible to look calmly at the future of our SIDS. As you will understand, we are in favour of this bill and will vote in favour of all its provisions, to which we have contributed our best. However, much remains to be done, whether it is the financing of SIDS, a major issue for which the departmental councils will have to meet, or the stabilisation of the Franco-European legal context after the Matzak judgment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] Let us not stop on the way and make the flame of this consensus burn again to resolve these other issues in the wake. This is the best service we can provide to the French, wherever they live, and to our firefighters, who deserve it amply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u38	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u39	In a statement of 6 October 2017, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, affirmed his will to strengthen the French model of civil security. According to him, this model is "a unique model of its kind that constitutes a reference and the first public service of proximity, with a territorial network that must be preserved." In line with this ambition, this bill aims to consolidate the French model of civil security, to modernise fire and rescue services, to improve the status of a volunteer firefighter and to protect civil security actors for the future. I would like once again to congratulate our rapporteur, Fabien Matras, on his excellent work. It is to him that we owe the numerous hearings of the civil security actors who informed us about the various issues to be taken into account, and I thank him for the way in which he conducted our work in committee. This bill, in fact, was very much expected. Fire and rescue services needed to be modernized through concrete measures, and that was what it was doing. However, it is regrettable that the departmentalization decided by the Act of 3 May 1996 remains incomplete, since there are still no fewer than 1204 managing authorities. Above all, however, the specific character of our civil security model had to be reinforced. Indeed, this system is based on about 250,000 firefighters, of whom nearly 200000 are volunteers. However, there has been a 7% decrease in the number of volunteer firefighters over the past 15 years. It was therefore important to encourage their commitment by improving their status. This text, which is the subject of a broad consensus, brings us together more than it divides us – we were able to verify it in the committee of laws. We have heard the concerns raised by some and have accordingly amended article 2 on relief and emergency care operations by referring to a decree in the Council of State. We will promote and multiply the common SDIS-SAMU platforms. Above all, we have decided on an experiment to establish a single emergency call number in a defence and security zone for a period of three years. We have further strengthened the bonuses for volunteer firefighters at the end of their activity. Among the amendments adopted in committee and defended by the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I would like to mention two. The first aims to ensure, as part of the training of volunteer firefighters, the implementation of the citizen engagement account, which existed since 2017 but could not be activated in the absence of a fund-raising agency. The second complements the definition of volunteer firefighters established in the law of 20 July 2011, known as the Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier law, specifying that it is a "citizen engagement, freely decided and consented". Perhaps we need to go even further by supplementing the scheme, which aims to prevent the voluntary firefighter's activity from becoming an activity of workers and the application of the so-called 2003 European Directive on the organisation of working time. We also need to look at other aspects, such as the allocation of social housing to volunteer firefighters. The aim of an amendment by our group is to include firefighters' activities as part of the criteria for allocating social housing, so that they can move closer to their fire and rescue centres within a short period of time. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to conclude by stressing that, for the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, this text, which has been the subject of a genuine and broad consensus among all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, is coherent, innovative and commensurate with the objectives that had been set. We are, of course, very in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u40	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u41	Guaranteeing the protection of people and property: this is a commitment at the heart of our republican pact, because it is a promise made to everyone throughout the national territory. This requirement obliges us to ask ourselves about our model of civil security, which must evolve in order to remain effective and maintain the recognition that our fellow citizens give to it. In this respect, I also want to thank our colleague Fabien Matras for the work he has done and to tell him that the Socialist and related group is fully committed to the objective. Let me begin by reminding you that if, in some places, firefighters in intervention are sometimes stoned, they are loved and protected in other places, simply because they represent the last visible trace of the public service. When the gendarmerie brigade has left, when the perception has been transferred, when the motto of the Republic has faded from the pediment of the school which has closed, it remains the barracks with its women and men in uniform, there remains this Republic which, by its model of civil security, protects, helps, assists, preserves and heals. These rescue forces are on all fronts and we must pay tribute to those who must know how to do everything: in my home, in Ardèche, the forest still burns too often, the radiological risk is a reality, the cevenol episodes bring the rivers out of bed, the rate of road accidents is higher than anywhere else, the nature sports in perilous environments require complex interventions and, in November 2019, the earth even trembled. On all these fronts, the rescue forces have been operational: I thank them for that. I am not talking to you about their involvement in the pandemic, which is all too often ignored: yet many firefighters have gone far beyond their missions to ensure the transport of patients, vaccination, interventions in EHPAD and many other initiatives that confirm their propensity to engage when the situation so requires. So what's the finding? Everywhere, there is an increase in the number of interventions for emergency aid to people, which has been stressed by several speakers. At the same time, voluntary engagement is a step forward or even a step backwards in some sectors. Second, insecurity is increasing for relief forces and is no longer confined to urban or peri-urban areas. Finally, the very nature of relief has changed considerably, with the men of fire leaving room for the men of assistance to the person. They have trained to provide care and their technical skills have never ceased to progress. This bill is therefore an exercise of balance which consists of recognizing relief for what they have become, confirming the place of the health authorities, without which there is no regulation and effective treatment of emergencies, but also to improve the ambulatory response, for too long suspended from a reform of the pre-hospital emergency, often promised but never committed. The proposed law therefore provides for a better distribution of flows, a definition of outpatient deficiency and a better articulation of civil safety and health professionals. It is also trying to pave the way for the principle of a single number. While there is a need to reduce the number of emergency calls, the real issue is not so much the single number as the organization that is at work behind it. We are committed to a health response from the first time we have received a prize: assistants and medical regulators have demonstrated their effectiveness and cannot give way to mere call centre operators. As everyone knows, our rather new safety model is based on valuable cooperation between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. It is therefore necessary to foster new commitments and to retain those already carrying out those missions. In this regard, I would like to welcome the significant progress made in the areas of pensions and social protection for volunteers, as well as the provisions concerning their employers, but also in favour of injured or deceased firefighters on duty. All these points which will be discussed will not make it possible to exhaust the subject. The improvement of our civil security model requires an update on the issue of ISDS funding, which has an increasing burden on departments and communities. Maintaining a public service that you will allow me to qualify as vital is a construction site that never ends. This bill contributes to the improvement of relief. It is above all the testimony of the gratitude due to these women and men who engage with dedication and professionalism. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] All the Members of my group have agreed to co-sign your bill, dear Fabien Matras, thus providing clear support for a cause that brings us together and an infinite gratitude to all the firefighters in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u42	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u43	Save or perish: it is at this price that our 250,000 firefighters and our 30,000 young firefighters act. Their dedication to us is flawless and every moment. I would like to thank them all for their commitment and, let us say, their self-denial. [[Applause on various benches]] Today, I am thinking especially of the firefighters of the Hérault, whose action is remarkable; I have a particularly moved thought for Jérémy Beier, who died at fire on August 10, 2016 in the middle of the garrigue in Gabian, north of Béziers and for David, Lucas and Didier who accompanied him that day and who tirelessly pursue their mission. Since 1 January, the Hérault firefighters have participated in more than 26700 interventions; Unrelentingly, they're next to the Héraultese. Last week alone, they intervened almost 1,400 times – an intervention every seven minutes – including 945 emergency relief and assistance operations. In this period of health crisis, they are more than ever an indispensable link in the territories, in particular through their commitment to the vaccination campaign, which would not be as effective without them. Take the example of the Béziers vaccination centre: if it is a communal centre, the perfect collaboration between the city and firefighters allows, almost since the beginning of the vaccination campaign, to vaccinate seven days a week, including public holidays. Because firefighters are constantly adapting to meet vital needs or emergencies, we too, as legislators, need to change their situation – that of professionals like volunteers. I therefore thank Fabien Matras, not to mention Pierre Morel-À-L' Huissier, for this bill drafted in conjunction with the FNSP, but also with many deputies from all sides. Among the necessary developments are the consolidation of our civil security model with, in particular, the clarification of the missions of firefighters and their scope of action; modernising the operation of fire and rescue services; Without forgetting, in Title III of the proposal for a law, the need to strengthen commitment and volunteering by granting pension subsidies, facilitating changes or strengthening the social protection of volunteers. I have also proposed that volunteer firefighters should be given priority in the allocation of social housing, and that they should be entitled to an exceptional premium in the form of hourly allowances. I cannot, of course, ignore the proposal for a three-year experiment of the single number 112 – an experiment proposed at a time when the limits of our system of assistance to people are being felt. At the height of the crisis of the covid -19, some calls were put on hold, for a period of sometimes up to 45 minutes: this is not acceptable for an emergency. I would remind you that in case of cardiac arrest, the waiting time must not exceed 30 seconds: we are far from it! By pooling all the actors, the 112 will help to point each one according to their needs: simple care or emergency. Experimenting with this device is a good thing. Finally, I cannot conclude my speech without mentioning the attacks on firefighters: spitting, insults, guets-apens, death threats and assaults are unfortunately common in some neighbourhoods. Let's make it clear that the uniform, whatever it is, has become a target. By targeting the firefighters who make the values and principles of our civilization based on solidarity and mutual assistance live on a daily basis, it is France as a whole that we aim for and reach. This situation is all the more unbearable because beyond the life of our firefighters, it is also the life of the victim being taken care of that is put in danger. And while strengthening operational protocols in each department allows for better coordination between police, gendarmes and firefighters, if the firefighters' complaints are facilitated, much remains to be done. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group and on a few other benches]] I hope, therefore, that my amendment, which is widely defended on all benches, concerning the possibility for a firefighter to file a complaint or testify anonymously, will be considered and adopted at the sitting. In the face of acts of aggression, everything must be put in place to protect those who serve France. And the criminal response to those who attack them must be exemplary. Violence is never a fatality. It is our duty to respond to them with swift, firm, expected sanctions that are commensurate with the gravity of the acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u44	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u45	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill. I would remind you that Articles 5 to 7, 13, 14, 17, 19, 36 and 41 are subject to the procedure of legislation in committee. Consequently, these articles will give rise to a general vote after the discussion, under ordinary law, of the other articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u46	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u47	Strengthening our civil security model is a necessity, as we have witnessed in recent years, sometimes powerless, a deterioration in the conditions for carrying out the missions of our firefighters. We must reassure and protect these men and women, both volunteers and professionals, who honour the motto "Courage and dedication". In order to maintain their ability to respond, relief services must be modernized by providing them with the necessary means to enable them to help and help our fellow citizens in distress. In my capacity as former mayor, I remember the decisive action of firefighters during the Lothar storm of 1999: the damage in the forest and in the city had been considerable in the north of Alsace. We were in full departmentalization, pursuant to the Act of 3 May 1996 on the development of volunteerism in fire brigades. This was not easy, because the municipalities that had devoted a lot of resources to their rescue centre continued to provide significant funding for SIDS, while others were receiving new services without significant additional costs. Today, of course, the context is completely different and we can be proud to have 79% more volunteer firefighters, as well as many sections of young firefighters. Firefighters are increasingly solicited, their missions are often dangerous and it is unbearable to see that they can sometimes be pebbled and targeted. Then – as you mentioned, Minister – the decree on volunteer firefighters represents a risk in that it would make it impossible to reconcile voluntary and professional engagement. In order to save the French model, the malaise generated by the European Directive 2003/ 88/EC on certain aspects of the organisation of working time must therefore be eliminated. Article 1 defines relief operations. I would like to take this opportunity to stress in my turn the wide-ranging work of parliamentary consultation carried out as a result of the mission of reflection to promote volunteerism among firefighters. This bill is very much expected by our firefighters: let us not disappoint them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u48	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u49	I commend the rapporteur, Fabien Matras, for the work he has done. This text gathers us around these soldiers of life and urgency, the firefighters, whom we must protect because they come to our rescue. The pebbles they are sometimes subjected to are completely unacceptable. Let me briefly add a number of comments. First of all, I want to welcome the preservation of this French exception: 80% of the volunteer firefighters, an exemplary territorial grid, a voluntary citizen engagement. I also mean our gratitude for this republican commitment. Secondly, this text is very well received locally, provided that the provisions contained in it are maintained during the public discussion – I am thinking of emergency care and relief, common platforms with the experimentation of a single call number or the improvement of retirement quarters. Fourth, it is in the division of labour that the text proposes a real change: it redefines emergency care and relief, with the aim of guaranteeing the vital gesture. No actor will be forgotten, including, I think, private paramedics. In conclusion, I will highlight a fundamental problem: the difficulties we encounter with firefighters find their cause in medical desertification, the magnitude of which forces us to react – to name but one example, the Bresse had forty-five doctors in 2018, but only thirty; the desperate communes turn to their mayor to find, finally, a general practitioner who is retiring. We must obviously vote on the bill, but also take into account the proposals that the Socialist and related groups have submitted in the medical field – this is one of the major issues in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u50	I call Mr Remy Rebeyrotte to speak on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u51	Article 2 is intended to replace, among the tasks of the fire and rescue services (SIS), the concept of emergency relief with that of emergency relief and emergency care, in order to adapt the right to practice. It is thus specified that the mission of SIS is to provide emergency relief and care to persons, to make them safe, and to ensure their conditioning and evacuation when they are victims of accidents, disasters or disasters, and when they show signs of vital or functional distress justifying the urgency to act. This article has been reworked in committee, in order to provide for the arrangements for training firefighters in emergency care which they have to provide – for its part, the list of emergency care which may be carried out by firefighters who do not belong to the SIS health and relief service is referred to a decree in the Council of State. As for Article 2a, it allows for the inclusion in the public health code that the fire doctor responsible for monitoring a person's state of health may access his or her shared medical file under certain conditions. In the absence of a trusted third party and in the event of a life-saving prognosis, it may be accessed without prior authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u52	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u53	As Hervé Saulignac pointed out, the missions of the firefighters have evolved sharply towards the rescue of the person. Their commitment must ask us about our model of civil security: we must change it if it is to remain effective and retain the full recognition of our citizens. This is the purpose of Article 2: it complements the definition of SIS missions, adding to the concept of emergency relief that of emergency care – the latter including relief to persons who present risks of life-threatening distress or signs of functional distress justifying the urgency to act. The article therefore extends the scope of the SIS while taking note of their main activity, which resides in the relief of the person. This extension raises the question of articulation with other emergency services providing care to the person, such as the UAS or the SMUR, a mobile emergency and resuscitation structure. The Socialist and Related Group will propose amendments aimed at better transposing the reality of SIS missions into the law, and at clarifying their competence in the field of emergency care and relief. We will also propose to explicitly mention the participation of SIS in emergency medical aid (EMA).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u54	I have before me five amendments, Nos 633, 53, 300, 320 and 455, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 53, 300 and 320 are identical. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 633.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u55	He proposed a new wording of Article 2 in order to define clearly what the terms "accident", "disaster" and "disaster" correspond to in Article L. 1424-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities. It is essential that purely medical pathologies are not assimilated to accidents for their sudden character alone: this could cause tensions between SIS and the UAS when determining who is responsible for the corresponding tasks. Missions of a purely medical nature must remain attached to the UAS. We also propose to use the concept of "leading mission" to better distinguish between, on the one hand, the specific missions of the SIS and, on the other hand, the missions to which SIS co-operates with other services. Finally, our amendment reaffirms the competence of the crisis management of firefighters, which has placed them at the heart of the fight against covid-19. Mr President, I would also like to introduce the withdrawal amendment No. 634: he proposes to redefine only the term accident.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u56	Amendment No 53 by Mr Xavier Batut is being defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u57	It aims to better define the concept of emergency relief and care, in order to better take account of the reality of SIS missions. In my turn, I would like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteur and his predecessors, in particular Pierre Morel -À- L'Huissier, as well as to the collective work that brings us together this evening in a soothing atmosphere – this is not always the case, as we saw last week, among others. I also very sincerely welcome the French model which has been established over the centuries, and which must be preserved – this is the object of our work. This model unites professionals, volunteers and often families, whole villages, communes with generations and lines of volunteer or professional firefighters; Our territories thus establish bonds of affection and admiration with their firefighters. The opportunity is given to me to tell them, without angelism and without playing on the only sensitive rope, that we love them, that we are attached to their work and that we listen with interest to their concerns, which manifest themselves on a daily basis: operational demands that are constantly increasing, insecurity that sometimes increases in certain territories – but not in all –, issues of organization, engagement, recruitment and crisis of vocations. We must also value the 28,000 young firefighters, who are our future. It is our responsibility to address all these issues; the text will certainly not exhaust the subject, but it brings a masterstone to a collective building that we build together and, for once, in a trans-partisan way. Firefighters not only bring us together on the day of the Holy Barbe; These men of fire and action are there to watch over us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u58	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 320.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u59	Similar to the previous ones, it was written in connection with the FNSPF. The aim is to rewrite article L. 1424-2 of the General Code of Territorial Authorities, which defines the activities of SIS, in order to better transpose into law the reality of their missions, and to clarify the respective competences of SIS and firefighters in emergency relief and emergency care. Finally, this amendment explicitly mentions the participation of SIS in urgent medical aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u60	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 455.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u61	As a result of our discussions with the FNSPF, we have endeavoured to further clarify the missions of the fire and rescue services, by translating as closely as possible the reality of their interventions – they are at the forefront of all crises, whatever their nature, to which our society is confronted. Emergency relief has thus become the core of their profession, or in any case represents an important part of their interventions. Our work has highlighted organizational problems that we have to deal with and that we probably need to look more closely at. It also appears that the means are sometimes lacking – I am thinking in particular of those that should be granted to the UAS: this deficiency is part of the weakening of the public hospital, whose resources are constantly being compressed. We therefore believe that there is a need to further clarify the tasks of SIS, including urgent medical assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u62	Mr Fabien Matras, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u63	These amendments propose several additions: a definition of the terms "accident", "disaster" and "disaster" to exclude purely medical pathologies; the mention of the participation of SIS in urgent medical aid; and the free disposal of own resources in personnel, equipment and real estate, for which they provide management, direction, activation and coordination. The definition of the proposed terms is intended to avoid tensions between the UAS and the SIS by clearly distinguishing their respective missions. In my view, Articles L. 1424-2 and L. 1424-42 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities are already sufficiently clear; I also refer you to section 3 of the bill, which further clarifies the coordination arrangements between SIS, ambulance workers and the UAS. In addition, the mention of urgent medical assistance among the SIS missions is satisfied by Article L. 6311-1 of the Public Health Code, as proposed by the Commission to amend it in Article 4 of the proposed law: "Emergency medical assistance shall, if necessary with the assistance of the fire and rescue services, in the course of their relief operations, be aimed at ensuring that the sick, injured and parturient, wherever they are located, receive emergency care appropriate to their condition. » Finally, the reference to own resources is satisfied; Article 3 also reinforces it, since, when requested for interventions not directly related to the performance of their tasks, SIS may defer or refuse their engagement, in order to maintain operational readiness for interventions within their missions. Since these amendments are satisfied, I request that they be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u64	The Minister for the Interior has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u65	I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u66	Amendment No 514 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u67	I do not see how this amendment improves drafting. He is, in my view, satisfied in both aspects by Article L. 1424-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, as amended by Article 2 of the bill. It retains the function of prevention, protection and firefighting, and refers to relief and emergency care. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u69	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u70	I have before me five amendments, Nos 670, 381, 286, 283 and 637, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 283 and 637 are identical. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 670.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u71	The aim is to introduce editorial changes aimed at making the consolidated article more readable, and to adjust the vocational training scheme to the emergency care acts to be defined by joint decree of the Ministers responsible for civil safety and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u72	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u73	It aims to create an additional mission for fire and rescue personnel. In the absence of sufficient comprehensive training of caregivers, it is risky to assign responsibility for emergency care to SIS. They carry out very effectively first aid gestures, for which they have received adequate training; They sometimes use various automatic devices, but they do not provide proper care: the care involves a diagnostic procedure performed by a health professional, and sometimes involves the administration of medicines, which is authorized only to doctors or nurses under the responsibility of a doctor. In order to use the appropriate terms, we propose to replace the word "care" with the word "actions", and to recall the importance of medical supervision for a truly caring activity. On the other hand, we fully agree with the rest of Article 2, which is excellently drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u74	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u75	Amendment No 286 by Mrs Sereine Mauborgne is intended to replace, in Article 2, paragraph 3, with the word "care", the word "actions" and amendment No 283, which I also defend in advance, in order to replace the word "care" with the word "acts". In order to clarify the distinction between emergency services and emergency medical assistance, it is proposed to replace the concept of emergency care with that of emergency action in fire and rescue service missions and to specify that the mission of emergency relief and emergency action is to provide the most appropriate emergency response for persons in distress. In fact, this text assigns SIDS new roles involving health competence when they do not benefit from health training or practice in the health sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u76	Amendment No 283 by Mrs Sereine Mauborgne is therefore being defended. Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 637.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u77	I, too, propose replacing the word "care" with the word "acts". The act is well defined for civil protection professionals, as is the care for healthcare professionals. It is also well defined in the Code of Public Health as regards emergency care, whereas it is not defined in the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities. This is, therefore, a sort of editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u78	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u79	The committee is against all of these amendments – except for the first one, which I have defended – because the firefighters in operation make 80% of the aid to the person and that, of that percentage, a significant number of interventions already involve care. It would be a step backwards not to recognize what firefighters are already doing. I would add that, as it is written, the article comes from a balance and that the actions of care will be the subject of a joint Order-in-Council between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, which will define the actions that can be taken. Some will probably be carried out without the advice of a doctor: I think, for example, of the blood pressure gain or the blood glucose measurement, acts which are already carried out by the firefighters. Others will be able to do so with the agreement of the medical regulator, in which case it will be possible to consider collectively the possibility for firefighters to go further. For example, giving ventolin to a person who is having an asthma attack, under the authority of a regulator doctor, can be a relevant step forward, such as placing an electrocardiogram and then sending it to the regulator doctor so that he can interpret it and differentiate an anxiety attack and cardiac arrest – the emergency doctors, whom I have heard about it for a few days, are very attached to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u80	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u81	The same opinion was in favour of the rapporteur's amendment and opposed to all the others. The rapporteur has explained the principle which guides us above all else: pragmatism. Firefighters know their profession, they are trained and already do these gestures in a spirit of common sense. Secondly, I repeat that we are in no way calling into question medical supervision, in particular the work of regulating the UAS. Finally, as the rapporteur has said, I will co-sign a decree with the Minister for Solidarity and Health, who will specify what is allowed and under what conditions and what is not. Amendments Nos 381 et seq. cannot therefore be accepted, since Amendment No 670 by the rapporteur is the most consistent with the philosophy of this text, in accordance with the common position of the two ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u82	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Before giving the floor to Mrs Caroline Fiat, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that 600 amendments have been tabled on this text and that all the groups have asked me to rationalise the statements as long as there is consensus. When there is agreement, let us try not to prolong the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u83	It's pedagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u84	You have the floor, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u85	Since I have tabled only two amendments out of 600, I will be careful not to take the floor too much. I am pleased to say that I agree very exceptionally with the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u86	We'll remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u87	Giving oxygen to a person is a medical gesture; Waiting for a doctor to tell the firefighters to do this could prevent saving a life, which would probably be inconsistent. That is why I will not vote for these amendments. I'll finish this, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u88	I have before me two amendments, Nos 513 and 784 corrected, which may be subject to a joint debate. Amendment No 513 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended. What about Amendment No 784 as corrected?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u89	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u90	Amendment No 634 by Mr Paul-André Colombani is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u91	Amendment No 511 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u92	On Article 2, I have before me a request for a public vote by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 109 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u93	Disadvantaged, for the reasons mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u94	We come to the vote on Rule 2. I invite everyone to return to their place... Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u95	Since the regulation imposes a waiting period between the announcement of the election and its holding, I take the opportunity to question the Government: when will the law enforcement decree, which has been expected for many months, be published?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u96	Maybe wait until the text is adopted! The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u97	That's what I was going to say, Mr. President. We will wait until the law is enacted, thus respecting parliamentary power. The decree, however, is almost entirely drafted. A few weeks will be enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u98	Mr. Aubert's impatience moves you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u99	[[Smile]] She's proverbial!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u100	We reached the five regulatory minutes thanks to Mr. Aubert. I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u101	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 93 Number of votes cast 91 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 91 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u102	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u103	Let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for having made it clear in the new wording of Article 2 that firefighters are not health professionals. I will stand together for Amendment No 170 and the following amendment, No 588, both tabled by Mrs Bergé. The aim is to provide medical follow-up and preventive medicine for SIDS personnel at their workplace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u104	Amendment No 588 by Mrs Aurore Bergé is therefore being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u105	I am against Amendment No 170, because doctors should be entitled to work medicine. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendment No 588.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u107	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u108	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor in support of Amendment No 648.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u109	It aims to provide fire and rescue services with the opportunity to use telemedicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u110	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 198 and 219. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u111	In order to best support rescued victims, this amendment proposes to allow, under certain conditions, fire and rescue services to access their medical data.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u112	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u113	It aims to frame this possibility in order to reduce it to the strictest necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u115	I propose that these amendments be withdrawn, because they are satisfied with Article 2 bis of the bill. Otherwise, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u117	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u118	Amendment No 613 by Mrs Alexandra Louis is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u119	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 199, 220, 299 and 326. Amendment No 199 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u120	The aim of this consistency amendment is to transpose to fire and rescue services and firefighters the provisions of the Public Health Code concerning the supply of medicines and medical devices applicable to military health services and to units for the training and intervention of civil security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u121	Mr Gosselin's amendment No 299 is being defended. I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u122	I would just like to add to Mr Breton's proposal something that is not a detail, since it is a matter of allowing the medicines in question to be given free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u124	I have already answered this question in part. The concept of emergency care is contained in Article 2. Some of the actions to be covered by the decree will be carried out on medical prescription and firefighters will be able to deliver drugs such as ventolin and paracetamol.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u125	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 284 and 638, to delete Article 2a. Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 284.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u126	The aim of this amendment is to delete an article adopted in committee on the initiative of Mr Bouyx and a number of our colleagues, which makes it possible to open the shared medical file in the event of a vital emergency, which is not of extreme consistency: when a patient has an urgent need for care, the urgency is not to open the medical file, but to treat the patient. On the other hand, it does not define with sufficient precision the person of trust to be reached, who is not necessarily the person who accompanies the patient when he or she needs care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u127	Mr Thomas Mesnier's amendment No 638 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u128	Unfavorable notice: this provision may constitute an added value in some interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u129	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 669 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u130	It's editorial, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u131	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 467.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u132	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u133	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 321.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u134	The aim of this amendment is to extend to fire and rescue services and their health and medical relief services the provisions of the Public Health Code on cooperation between health professionals, which are currently applicable to the military health service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u135	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u136	It does not seem to me desirable to provide for rules for health and medical relief services which derogate from cooperation protocols. As patients treated with these services are patients like others, there is no justification for the protocols not to comply with the rules of common law. It's in the interest of the patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u137	Two speakers are inscribed on rule 3. Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u138	We begin our examination of section 3 of the bill, which provides details on non-fire and rescue service interventions and on out-of-court deficiencies. It thus aims at better defining in the general code of territorial authorities the division of competences between SIDS and the UAS and the responsibilities which are generally incumbent on firefighters in the performance of their duties. Upon its consideration in committee, the bill provided for the possibility for SIDS to defer or refuse interventions that are not directly related to their missions. The text thus responds to a request from our firefighters to be discharged from operations that exceed their powers, the responsibility of which must be referred to the UAS. It is an essential device when we know how much our firefighters are called upon by a multitude of missions which, in principle, do not concern them. For any burden borne by SIDS in the exercise of tasks beyond their scope, the text will also make it possible to impose on beneficiaries or applicants of such intervention to participate at the expense of the latter, which is an essential measure for regulating these public services so much sought. Finally, the examination in committee made it possible to make adjustments by eliminating the possibility of requalifying ex post out-patient deficiencies. The new definition of these out-of-court deficiencies allowed by the text will enhance the legal certainty of the operations conducted by firefighters in the service of the stability and continuity of their missions as representatives of the nation. In contact with the firefighters of Meurthe-et-Moselle, we agree, like all members of our group, with all the measures proposed by this article. We are confident that they will contribute to improving the professional lives of our firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u139	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u140	Ambulance deficiencies must be defined strictly in order to remove all the ambiguities that have too often existed and to render an arbitration on their consideration. It is good that Article 3 takes this into account. The inclusion of these deficiencies in the hospital budget has all too often created tensions between state services and SIDS: it is absolutely necessary to identify them in the budget of the RSA, the regional health agency, so that things are very clear. As the law does not have retroactive effect, once it is passed, it will be appropriate to assist SIDS that have engaged in litigation against SRAs to reach an amicable agreement or agreement with them. I have a number of reservations about sorting out the exits, because you never know, when you send a team, what kind of problems she's going to encounter. SIDS should not be prosecuted for non-assistance to persons at risk because a commitment would have been minimized or misappreciated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u141	I have before me two amendments, No 221 by Mr Xavier Breton and 194 by Mr Dino Cinieri, which can be discussed together. They're being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u142	You are proposing a new definition of ambulatory deficiency, but the one in the text has been considered at length. We spent a lot of time there with the minister and the ministries concerned, as well as with all the stakeholders concerned, before reaching a balanced solution. It is not desirable at this stage to reach a definition that satisfies all actors. As for post-qualification, which I, too, originally proposed, the new definition makes it very complicated to implement: it is difficult to establish three hours after a private ambulance was not available at the time of the appeal. That is why we have removed this notion of requalification after the fact. I would point out, however, that in many departments, agreements already exist between the UAS and firefighters; They allow for the requalification after the fact of failure. Local intelligence makes them do it. I therefore call on the Government, in particular the Ministry of Health, to generalize such conventions. As for the possibility for the legal representative of the fire and rescue service to impose fines, even if I deplore with you the abusive calls, I fear that she will discourage some people from calling. My opinion will therefore be rather unfavorable, and I would suggest that you endorse the Government's amendments and my amendments, which contain some of your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u143	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u144	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u145	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u146	In view of the rapporteur's explanations, which I share the hope that this type of agreement will become more widespread, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u147	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 507.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u148	It is an amendment of precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u149	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 385.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u150	It is also an amendment of precision. The fire and rescue services will not only carry out rescue operations, since section 2 added emergency care. To speak of interventions, in compliance with Article L. 1424-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, therefore seems to me more appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u152	Unfavorable: I do the opposite analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u153	I have before me a series of amendments, Nos 411, 428, 459, 11, 12, 13, 46, 78, 83, 154, 169, 179, 187, 301, 322, 423, 510, 526, 590, 663, 516, 591, 608 and 739, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 411, 428 and 459 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 11 to 663 and 516 to 739. Amendment No 411 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 428.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u154	The aim of this amendment is to allow a posteriori requalification of the demands made, while recalling that fire and rescue services should not be considered as single operators of emergency care nor should they be counted as contributing to the permanence of care in the assessment of the health needs of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u155	Amendment No 459 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended, along with identical amendments No 11 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 12 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u156	The aim of this amendment is to provide a better framework for out-of-home care by defining it more precisely. The aim is both to upgrade the national tariff, to postpone departure on mission, and possibly to requalify ex post an intervention whose deficiency would not have been identified at the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u157	The identical amendments Nos 46 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 78 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, 83 by Mr Martial Saddier, 154 by Mr Christophe Naegelen, 169 by Mr Bernard Perrut, 179 by Mr Vincent Rolland, 187 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 301 by Mr Eric Ciotti and 322 by Mr Hervé Saulignac were defended. I call Mr Benoit Simian to support Amendment No. 423.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u158	It was written with the Association des départements de France. I would like to take this opportunity to endorse the words of my colleague Alain David, a member of Parliament like myself, who was President of SDIS, which is very valuable in this House, even if he is no longer – and I regret that – under the law on non-cumulation of mandates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u159	It was the time when we could combine, and intelligently!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u160	The purpose of this amendment is to regulate outpatient deficiency. We are all alerted about this in our territories and we see that relief is disrupted by abusive calls. It is therefore necessary to frame the situation, and this is what Article 3 does. The amendment, which responds to the wishes of the ADF, the Assembly of the French Departments, intends to formalise in this article the principle that structural deficiencies cannot be established by the absence of out-of-house custody. It is a question of spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u161	There are other former presidents of SDIS, starting with that of my department, Mr Bru, who is now in the Chamber with us. Identical amendments Nos 510 by Mr Robin Reda and 526 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup are being defended. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 590.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u162	At the same time, I will defend my amendment No 591. Ambulance deficiency is a serious problem, particularly in rural areas, because some SRAs have an accounting logic that does not take into account the nature of the population – in fact, the profile is not the same when the population is old or when the villages are isolated, with a different journey time. The fire and rescue services are in a way the adjustment variable of the system, and I think the rapporteur was right to introduce this possibility of requalifying the interventions a posteriori. Mr rapporteur, the conventions that you are talking about between the UAS and the SDIS do not really work, because some calls that correspond to simple health transport are sometimes presented as emergencies. If, therefore, the legislator does not protect these services, they will in fact be an adjustment variable. This is a very important point which we need to discuss in order to change the balance, which is now very unfavourable, especially for certain centres made up solely of volunteers and which, as in the Vaucluse, can have relatively few resources in comparison with other departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u163	Amendment No 663 by Mr Arnaud Viala is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u164	I can only agree with Mr. Aubert's remarks. The aim of this amendment is to allow, in the case of firefighters' intervention following an out-of-court shortage, to requalify this intervention a posteriori if it did not correspond to the original request. Otherwise, if the intervention was not urgent when it had been reported as such, the responsibility of the SIDS could be engaged. This flaw must therefore be corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u165	Amendment No 591 by Mr Julien Aubert has already been defended. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 608.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u166	According to the rapporteur, a posteriori requalification already works in many departments thanks to cartels. However, in those departments where there is no agreement, this is unfortunately reflected in transfers of operational costs and additional financial burdens, which are not compensated and which therefore weigh heavily on the SIDS budget. There is a problem here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u167	Amendment No 739 by Mr Pierre Morel - A- L'Hussier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u168	The problem of a posteriori requalification is also due to the positive definition of deficiency. As I was telling you, it seems difficult, with this definition, to see three hours later that a private ambulance was not available. On the other hand, with regard to the difficulties raised by Mr. Aubert in cases where the UAS considers that there is a deficiency and the SIDS that this is not the case – or the other way around – the fact that there is a definition of the deficiency will allow everyone to agree. If there were no private ambulances available, no one could dispute that there was a deficiency. We can also link to common platforms: all operators are on the same platform, so they won't be able to lie to each other. As far as structural deficiencies are concerned, I am quite divided. When I read your amendments, I first considered a favourable opinion; But in some territories, especially in rural areas, SIDS should not be prevented, if it has the will, from ensuring permanence in the place of private paramedics – perhaps not systematically, but at least on certain occasions. This could enable us to save some small relief centres, which, in terms of the volume of interventions, are now holding up only because they have to remedy certain shortcomings. We must be careful not to impose a provision that would be too general and which, in the end, could have side effects that we have not thought of. For these reasons, unfavorable opinion on all the amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u170	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u171	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u172	It is Mr.Véran who should come to talk about this matter instead of Mr.Darmanin, because the problem is that of the reimbursement rate, which accounts for about one third of the cost. For being president of the SDIS in my department for twenty-five years, I know the ratio is about one to three. That's not acceptable. For an SIDS such as the Marne, this represents almost EUR 1 million per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u173	It's the same in the Aisne!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u174	This is therefore even more important than the subsequent requalification – to which I am also in favour. In the text we are discussing, the outpatient deficiency is defined by the 15th, the UAS, which is therefore judge and party: this is what is wrong. We had a debate with the CHRU – the regional university hospital centre – in Reims that did not end, and the relationship between the number of outpatient deficiencies according to our conception, that of the SIDS, and that of the SAMU is of the order of one to two or three. It is therefore essential to vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u175	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u176	In some departments, there are no out-of-court companies, or they don't want to engage because it's unprofitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u177	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u178	We are therefore faced with enormous difficulties and delays in the intervention of the SIDS, which is often warned too late because the SAMU desperately seeks out available ambulances and, when it does not find them, engages the SIDS three quarters of an hour later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u179	Absolutely! And besides, we're being guided!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u180	I let you imagine the difficulties encountered by SIDS officers when they arrive in such conditions at the scene of the accident or intervention. To say that we are going to trust the ambulance system raises enormous difficulties in some departments. It is in fact more cost-effective for paramedics to do transport for chemotherapy and other care, which is regulated and to which they spend almost all their time, than to set up a guard to wait for a hypothetical exit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u181	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u182	This bill tends to highlight the excellent work of firefighters and SIDS, but this is no reason to oppose them to private paramedics, who are doing remarkable work, including with regard to emergencies. In the Creuse, for example, they provide all the transport connections with the SAMU, as we are sometimes one hour and a half away from the nearest SMUR car. Fortunately, therefore, there are paramedics who do not sleep at night, even when they transport chemotherapy during the day, to make the junctions of SMUR at night.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u183	We never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u184	The models are not opposed: they complement each other. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, Monsieur de Courson, a transport is paid 90 euros, while an outpatient deficiency is paid 115 euros to the SIDS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u185	Have you ever presided over an SIDS, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u186	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So there is still an economic model. There are in this territory people fighting and paramedics working.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u187	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u188	Mr rapporteur, we understand your argument. We do not oppose firefighters or paramedics at all. The real question is the one asked by Charles de Courson, namely that of the financing of outpatient deficiencies by the Ministry of Health and the RHAs. It's a real problem...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Alain David also applauds]] ... and we sometimes find it extremely difficult for paramedics to agree to mobilize drivers and vehicles for hours to provide these guards, which is not the case in other situations. By tabling these amendments, we wanted to stimulate this debate on the inclusion of SIDS in this cover scheme. There is no controversial will here: let us not let this idea settle down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u191	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u192	First of all, no one opposes anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u194	The idea of this bill is not to oppose whites to reds, paramedics to firefighters or firefighters to doctors. That is not how we will solve the problems. Moreover, we encounter these rich problems only where there are many public services or many people who contribute to public service. In poorer or rural areas, it is clear that it is more a matter of managing difficulty or absence. In some places, firefighters are particularly present and active, and in others, paramedics. I don't think anyone here wants to oppose each other. On the other hand, after defining the deficiency, as we are doing usefully today thanks to the rapporteur and to all of you, which, each of you will agree, is not obvious, we must now see how to improve. I do not know the amounts in effect in Mr. de Courson's department, and the amounts that he is making seem a little excessive to me, perhaps because he has not been presiding over his SIDS for some time, but since he is working well on his files, I am not questioning the substance of what he describes for his department. What is certain, however, is that this guard must be revalued.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u195	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u196	On this issue – which is not legislative, but regulatory – we are working with the Minister of Solidarity and Health to upgrade this guard so that it can be better reimbursed to SIDS. Perhaps this will not cover the amounts you are referring to, honourable Member, but it must be done. Again, we must not oppose each other, and no one wishes to do so. The question of revalorisation is obvious, but arises first of all that of the definition of deficiency. I am not sure that the vote on one amendment, rather than on another, is bringing more water to the mill of the bill advocated by the rapporteur, but I agree to go back to this point, perhaps in the framework of the PLFSS, the bill on the financing of social security, or on the occasion of questions arising from this bill. Within the Government, I am working very well with Minister Veran on this crucial and complicated issue that we have been talking about for years, Mr. de Courson. Imagine that you've been presuming an SIDS for twenty-five years and that we still haven't solved part of the problem! This is quite normal, because there are plenty of financing and competition problems. Still, we are working to be able to answer you about what the Government intends to do in terms of revalorization and reimbursement to SIDS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u197	That's regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u198	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u199	I would like to say to my young colleague that I have absolutely no objection to each other. Indeed, the other problem, if you are familiar with the situation of private paramedics, with whom I have spoken at length, is that they eat their shirts, especially on nights and weekends, and that the reimbursement rate that social security applies to them is absolutely not attractive to them. These two sub-tariffs result in this situation in which SIDS are widely solicited at fixed prices, of memory, at 135 euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u200	124!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u201	...124 euros, therefore, for a cost price of around 350 or 400 euros. Other colleagues who have been presidents or board members of SDIS can attest that the cost price has nothing to do with this amount of 124 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u202	Absolutely! You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u203	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u204	No one, of course, wants to oppose anyone. For having been an ambulance driver in the last century, I recall that there is a difference between SDIS and private ambulances: as the firefighters leave the barracks together, an ambulance driver, when called for an SAMU emergency, goes up into the ambulance and picks up his colleague from his home, where he does not arrive immediately, so that the people to be transported wonder why we arrive a little late and that it is necessary, beyond the stress of the patient, to explain this delay, which is always a little difficult. Mr. Minister of the Interior, I am throwing a bottle at the sea: I tabled a bill some time ago because the paramedics, who depend on the Ministry of Transport, would like to depend on the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u205	Why not the Home Office?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u206	I don't know! In any case, this bill exists, I have tabled it. During the crisis of the covid, the paramedics were not entitled to anything, and they were particularly desolate. I'm throwing a bottle at the sea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u207	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u208	Let me give you a terminological clarification. I think it is important to pay tribute to the work of the paramedics, and I fear that the term "deficiency" has given rise to a quiproquo. In my mouth, it is not at all pejorative, especially since the outpatient deficiency is not attributable to the paramedics. If private means are unavailable at some point, it is not because ambulance workers refuse to work or work badly: it is completely independent of their will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u209	I have before me two identical amendments No 515 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and No 738 by Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, which are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u210	They're happy. Therefore, I ask for their withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u212	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u213	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 468.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u214	It is intended to regulate the power of the SDIS Boards to charge relief users a fee. This fee application must be able to be assessed according to the needs and financial means available to all public administrations; Its amount must therefore be determined upstream by a benchmark drawn up by the Directorate-General for Budget and the Directorate-General for Public Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u216	Unfavorable. I think it's good to let local intelligence solve these kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u217	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 589, 652, 668, 729, 609, 755 and 370, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 589, 652, 668 and 729 are identical. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 589.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u218	He's almost editorial, Mr. Chairman, but I'm going to introduce him, because the subject he's talking about is both important and complex. Let us say that this amendment provides all the clarifications desired by the authors of the other amendments, with the possible exception of the rapporteur. Ambulance deficiencies are requested from fire and rescue services by the UAS, not by the UAS Medical Regulatory Service. On the other hand, fire and rescue vehicles in operation can access and use the road infrastructure free of charge – everyone will understand it. This amendment therefore seems to me to clarify the wording adopted in committee, which had already made it possible to define the out-of-court shortage and to ensure that the means of fire and rescue services were put to rest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u219	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 652.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u220	It is identical to that of the Minister. I wanted to add that he is taking over a provision that had already been defended by our colleague Ciotti in the context of the discussion of the 2018 Finance Bill. I would like to welcome the rapporteur's fair play, who agreed to discuss this amendment before the sitting, which allowed us to table it in the same terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u221	The identical amendments No 668 by the rapporteur and No 729 by Mr Remy Rebeyrotte are being defended. I call Mr Benoit Simian to support Amendment No. 609.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u222	Indeed, we had already addressed this issue in the context of the 2018 Finance Bill. Like the Minister's amendment, the purpose of this amendment is to provide fire and rescue services for the payment of tolls on motorways. It will be engraved in the law, which seems to me to be in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u223	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to support Amendment No. 755.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u224	I had tabled it in committee, and I was told that he was satisfied with the proposal made by Eric Ciotti in the context of the 2018 Finance Bill. Nevertheless, the decree in the Council of State which was to be adopted in order to lay down the procedures for its implementation has not yet been published. Do you know what's going on?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u225	Amendment No 370 by Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u226	Favourable to identical amendments Nos 589, 652, 668 and 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u228	Some of the amendments are identical. Mr Viala, if I have tabled this amendment, it is not in facet with the Members: I am obviously raising the challenge! In addition, you had in fact adopted this provision within the framework of the 2018 Finance Act, but you are right, Mr Morel -À-L'Huissier, the decree, which was to be issued by the ministry responsible for transport, has still not been published. Three years is a relatively long time for the drafting of a decree, and I would therefore like to appeal to my colleague minister responsible for transport – who was not at the time – to ask him to accompany the rapporteur's bill if it were to be adopted. If I express an opinion against Amendments Nos 609, 755 and 370, then it is not because I am opposed to it on principle, but simply because the adoption of the Government's one would allow the pledge to be automatically lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u229	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u230	Minister, you state in the explanatory memorandum that your amendment is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u231	It adapts the drafting to the work of the Law Commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u232	But he's not! You are creating, and that is very well, a provision that did not exist in the committee's text: free access to road and motorway infrastructure for emergency vehicles in operation. This was already the case on motorways, thanks to agreements signed with the concessionaires, but it is good to generalise this provision, because there are not only licensed motorways.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u233	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 487 and 718. Amendment No 487 by Mr Maxime Minot is being defended. I call Mr Vatin to support Amendment No. 718.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u234	It seeks to delete the reference to "on medical prescription" in article 3, paragraph 5, in order to prevent firefighters from being subjected to financial ill-treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u236	We have verified that the original wording satisfies this request: even if the word "on medical prescription" is left, this will not be a problem for SIDS. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u238	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u239	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 722.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u240	This amendment, tabled by our colleague Naïma Moutchou, tends to remove the possibility of deferring the involvement of SIDS in consultation with the UAS. Indeed, it is an operational brake. It is therefore necessary to return to ordinary law: paragraph 3 already allows for the postponement of deficiencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u242	Favourable: the amendment even seems to me to be drafting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u244	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u245	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u246	Let me ask you a question. The functioning of the shortcomings was clarified, and we had found in committee a number of balances, which I understood should not be changed. But if Mrs Moutchou's amendment were adopted, the care of the patient requested by the UAS could be delayed, without even consultation. This seems to me contrary to the very tasks of the structure, which provide for the care of patients who need it. Could you enlighten me, Mr. Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u247	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u248	I would just like to make it clear that the LR Group will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u249	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u250	Mr Mesnier, I think it was a mistake: since this is an outpatient deficiency, we are no longer in the competence of firefighters. I therefore do not see why there should be consultation. It only makes sense for interventions falling within their competence, which in this case will not be the case. I do not think that the adoption of this amendment will upset the balance, and knowing the firefighters, they will continue to ensure the interventions if they are available. With regard to deficiencies, let us be careful: firefighters must be allowed to preserve their operational capabilities for emergencies that may occur in a territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u251	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u252	Amendment No 509 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u253	Amendment No 473 by Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u254	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. The submission of the SIDS and their partners' conventions to administrative jurisdiction prior to their signature is an excessive procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u256	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u257	On Article 3, I have before me a request for a public vote by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to support Amendment No. 731.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u258	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u259	Amendment No 475 by Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u260	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u262	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u263	Amendment No 471 by Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u264	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u266	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u267	Amendment No 371 by Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u268	I put Rule 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u269	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 86 Number of votes cast 83 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 83 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u270	It's not always like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u271	We've had more tense sessions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u272	I have before me three amendments, Nos 505, 55 and 323, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 55 and 323 are identical. Amendment No 505 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended. Amendment No 55 by Mr Xavier Batut is being defended. I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u273	It is intended to replace the reference to "municipal and departmental arrangements" with a reference to "local, departmental or territorial services". All must now be integrated into the mission of providing urgent medical assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u274	I have before me 16 amendments, Nos 14, 79, 104, 106, 123, 136, 148, 182, 188, 302, 424, 506, 527, 592, 122 and 222, which can be discussed jointly. The first fourteen are identical; The same applies to the last two. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u275	It is intended to replace the name SDIS with SDP, for departmental fire department services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u276	Amendments Nos 79 by Marie-Christine Dalloz, 104 by Émilie Bonnivard, 106 by Martial Saddier, 123 by Dino Cinieri, 136 by Vincent Descoeur, 148 by Jean-Pierre Vigier, 182 by Vincent Rolland, 188 by Véronique Louwagie, 302 by Éric Ciotti, 424 by Benoit Simian, 506 by Robin Reda, 527 by Josiane Corneloup and 592 by Julien Aubert were defended. In the joint debate, we come to two other identical amendments. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u277	This is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u278	Amendment No 222 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u279	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u281	The Government was opposed to changing the current name. On the one hand, the first concerned are attached to being designated as firefighters rather than firefighters – the Federation itself is not in favour of a name change. On the other hand, imagine the tens of millions of euros that should be spent on changing the logos of vehicles, letter papers... I am not sure that this is a most useful public expenditure. Let us say that this unfavorable opinion has nothing to do with ideology and is probably a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u282	The rapporteur's amendment No 658 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u283	I have before me nine identical amendments, Nos 2, 42, 177, 195, 223, 251, 502, 518 and 740. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u284	This is an amendment of drafting precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u285	Amendments Nos 42 by Mr Martial Saddier, 177 by Mr Vincent Rolland, 195 by Mr Pierre Cordier and 223 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended. Mr Jean-Marie Fiévet has the floor to support Amendment No 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u286	It is intended to clarify that the prefectural competence in the direction of operations must cover all types of crises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u287	Amendments Nos 502 by Mr Robin Reda and 518 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended. Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier, to support Amendment No. 740.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u288	The addition of the terms "of whatever nature" allows the prefect to manage all kinds of crises. It seems to me important to make that point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u290	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u291	Unfavorable opinion. I understand what is behind these amendments, but I believe that health crises are covered by the current wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u292	Identical amendments Nos 89 by Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara and 410 by Mrs Lise Magnier are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u293	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 474.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u294	[[Smiles and applause on various benches]] He's being defended, Mr. President. This time, you did say my name!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u295	In your turn, you will try to pronounce the name of a commune from my home: Boueilh-Boueilho-Lasque. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u296	Unfavorable. A feedback from the State representative is already foreseen, in particular concerning the ORSEC plans – organisation of the civil security response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u298	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u299	Is the amendment retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u300	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u301	We come to a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 8. I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 246, 568 and 661. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 246.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u302	This amendment by my colleague Julien Dive aims to create in all the municipal councils of France, like the correspondent defence that already exists, the function of correspondent fire and rescue, in order to make the link between the elected municipal representatives, first representatives of the population, and the fire and rescue services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u303	Amendments Nos 568 by Mr Eric Pauget and 661 by Mr Arnaud Viala are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u304	I don't have a problem with the idea. The committee has not voted on these amendments, but on a personal basis, I give an opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u306	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u307	Mr Jean-Marie Fiévet has the floor to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u308	French firefighters are one of the best relief services for the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u309	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u310	They intervene at all times, at all times, all year round: they always respond present. They respond present to intervene on missions of a vital nature, traffic accidents, lights... They are the first responders during natural disasters, forest fires, earthquakes, floods, and of course, during pandemics. However, there is no General Secretariat for Civil Security under the Prime Minister's authority. My amendment aims to create a general secretariat for civil security, in order to enable it to be at the heart of crisis management at interministerial level so that the expertise of relief services can benefit from the greatest number of adversity situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u311	[[Smile]] Is this an amendment suggested by Matignon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u312	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u313	I wonder about the relationship between a possible General Secretariat for Civil Security and the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management, but let me let the Government decide on the substance of the question. The rapporteur would, however, give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u314	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u315	[[Smile]] [[Smile]] I represent the entire Government before you at this moment; I will therefore give a very objective opinion by telling you that all this is now very well under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. I could turn to the government commissioners and ask the Director General of Civil Security and Crisis Management whether he is happy to be with the Minister of the Interior. He's showing me that he is. There! These two substantive arguments do not really support the amendment. However, the French model works well, with a Directorate-General doing important work, especially since in the case of SIDS, we share very much the responsibility with the local authorities which are the departments. I'm not sure this organization should be burdened. Moreover, the Ministry of the Interior cannot only be the Ministry of Security or the Police. By definition, it deals with protections, in the sense of the police and gendarmerie of course, but also in the sense of civil security. I want to say, but I am not objective, that the Ministry of the Interior even tends to be a little too much the Ministry of Security. By managing civil security, elections, prefectures, he does not understand public policies from the police and gendarmerie alone. Although the police and gendarmerie are important administrations, they do not sum up the Ministry of the Interior. For all these reasons, especially for the first, I can only give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u316	The rapporteur's amendment No 571 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u317	The rapporteur's amendment No 546 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u318	Amendment No 470 by Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u319	Unfavorable opinion. It seems to me that it creates a fairly high degree of legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u321	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u322	Amendments Nos 547 and 548 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u323	I have before me four amendments, Nos 380, 224, 741 and 114, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 224 and 741 are identical. Amendment No 380 by Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne is being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 224.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u324	It aims to preserve the mention in the law of the health and medical relief service, indispensable to mark the role of SIS in relief and emergency care for people. It also specifies the organisation of the SDIS and the distinction with the departmental body.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u325	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier, to support Amendment No. 741.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u326	While maintaining the abolition of the categories of rescue centres, this amendment aims to clarify the various possible SDIS organisations and to preserve the distinction with the departmental body. This makes it possible to take better account of certain territorial disparities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u327	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 114.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u328	The aim is to clarify the various possible SDIS organisations and to preserve the distinction with the departmental body in order to better take into account territorial disparities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u329	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u330	Unfavorable opinion. Article 12 as drafted avoids too much management in silo of fire and rescue services. I fear that these amendments will lead us back to a logic that we are trying to avoid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u332	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u333	Amendment No 196 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u334	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 327.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u335	I am fully aware that it does not concern all the territories, but we would demonstrate, by adopting it, our ability to adapt to certain rural realities. You mentioned, Mr. Minister, the need to be pragmatic. This amendment is, I believe, with the seal of pragmatism. What's his object? We start from the observation that in rural areas there are small barracks, difficult to arm, which no longer have as many volunteers as a few years ago, but whose closure is very delicate and complex to implement: everyone can understand that the mayors want to preserve their barracks even when they no longer welcome many volunteers. Similarly, it can be difficult to ask the few remaining volunteers to join the nearby barracks – their history does not always allow them to envisage a common life. The amendment simply seeks to open up the possibility of setting up rescue centres made up of several existing barracks. Access to this request, which has been the subject of reflection in several SIDS, would solve many difficulties. Once again, the adoption of this amendment would be proof of our pragmatism, particularly in the service of the rural environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u336	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u337	I share your desire to preserve the rural environment. It is true that firefighters often represent the last public service in these areas and that every effort must be made to maintain these barracks. After analysing your amendment, which you told me was of great importance to you, we believe that the proposed provision falls rather within the regulatory area. I will allow the Government to respond on the merits, but I am sending a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u339	I agree with the rapporteur's opinion: on the substance, one can only agree that it is probably at local level that the best answer can be given. However, the proposed measure falls fully within the regulatory area, as has been confirmed several times by the Constitutional Council in its jurisprudence, notably in its decisions in 2007, 2017 and 2018. We could perhaps usefully work together to facilitate and accompany the establishment of fire and rescue centres – it is obviously not a matter of blocking things – but I do not wish to include such a provision in the law, because it would certainly be censored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u340	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u341	I fully support this amendment, of which I am a co-signatory. This proposal is the result of an undeniable reality in rural areas, where SIDS find it very difficult to bring together fire and rescue centres. Sometimes the solution we are proposing would be very welcome. However, when we suggest applying it, we are not told that such a decision falls within the regulatory area, but simply that it is impossible. I therefore want to make sure that the regulatory power is able to deal with this situation, that a solution exists and that it will make it possible to advance a system that must certainly evolve, but also take into account the local contingencies and the willingness of some volunteer firefighters to keep their place in this system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u342	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u343	In my opinion, I do not want to give the impression that we are not aware of the need to regroup certain barracks, nor of the difficulties that you refer to. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind Mr Bernalicis that, of the 40 000 or so professional firefighters in France, 43% are also volunteers, often in rural areas: they do not just work overtime, even if this may not be the case in your department. They also volunteer in the small barracks – sorry to call them that – rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u344	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u345	The question is therefore neither that of overtime nor that of the establishment of a reserve army of fire capitalism. To return to your question, Mrs Untermaier, I undertake to issue a ministerial instruction in order to make it clear to the services concerned that they can seize the regulatory weapons available for clustering and are even encouraged by the Government. You will be consulted and sent a copy of this document. If I am reluctant, you will easily understand, to include in the law a provision that is clearly within the regulatory field, I have understood your intention and the reality of your finding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u346	All right! Withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u347	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u348	Your answer is quite satisfactory, minister. Simply put, you will understand that if this amendment is tabled in the House even if it is not in the legislative field, it is precisely because the regulatory framework has never changed, even though this request was made by others before me. I assume that your word is worth more than that of your predecessors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u349	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u350	...and you will follow up on the commitment you have just made. In advance, be sure that many firefighters working in rural areas will be very grateful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u351	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u352	The minister has the floor, no doubt to defend his predecessors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u353	I simply point out to Mr. Saulignac that he takes a risk through his statement, even if his confidence honors me! I pledge that this instruction will be written before the Senate's consideration of the text and that it will be forwarded to you. I am sure that your honourable senators will be able to remind me of the promise I make to you, if my statement is not in line with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u354	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 544.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u355	This is an editorial amendment, developed with the Aisne SDIS, which members explained to me that the notion of "sub-directory" could be a source of confusion in their organization and that they would therefore prefer the notion of "pole".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u357	Disadvantaged: The previous articles are aimed precisely at reorganizing services by creating sub-directorates to replace the old poles. Those concerned will therefore have to do so. I do not think it is appropriate to give special treatment to health and medical services, which may not take it very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u358	Amendment No 787 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u359	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 124 and 201. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u360	It is intended to explicitly provide for the presence of the Chief Fire and Rescue Medical Officer on the Board of Directors and on the Administrative and Technical Committee of the SDIS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u361	Mr Arnaud Viala's amendment No. 201 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u362	It is the same as the one I made in committee: your request seems to me to be satisfied, as the Chief Medical Officer is already present in these proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u363	Identical amendments Nos 105 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 635 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u364	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 645.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u365	I propose to delete Article 16 in favour of my Amendment No 675 to Article 39, which will mention both the reference mix and the reference safety. I would point out, however, that these functions will continue to be carried out by two different persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u366	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 624, 724 and 730. The identical amendments No 624 by Mr Vincent Bru and Mr 724 by the rapporteur are being defended. Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 730.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u367	It aims to clarify the possibilities offered to fire and rescue services to recruit and manage officials of the territorial civil service who are not part of the professional fire department. It also provides for a measure derogating from the ordinary law of the territorial civil service so that such agents, like professional firefighters, are appointed jointly by the competent authority of the State and by the Chairman of the Administrative Board to the functional jobs of fire and rescue services. Finally, it seeks to clarify the modalities for the recruitment and management of volunteer firefighters in local fire and rescue services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u368	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u369	Favourable. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done by the administrative, technical and specialized personnel (PATS) in the SIDS: if we often talk about firefighters, we must not forget all the technical agents that allow the services to turn. Bravo and thank you to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u371	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] Same opinion. I would like to join the thanks extended by the rapporteur to all administrative, technical and specialised staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u372	Amendments Nos 678 and 680 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u373	Amendments Nos 681 corrected, 682, 683, 684, 685 and 686 corrected by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u374	Amendment No 453 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u375	I understand the idea behind the amendment: a balance should indeed be restored with the private sector. In substance, however, it is not for private employers to reward volunteers financially, and the proposed measure would create inequality vis-à-vis public sector employees. In addition, it does not appear to be necessarily well organized and could lead to abuse: some employers could take advantage of the premium payment to pay part of the salaries of volunteer firefighters without paying contributions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u376	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 607, 688 and 778. On these amendments, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 607.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u377	This amendment is important. I know that identical amendments have been tabled by the rapporteur and by Mr Jolivet, and I imagine that a very large part of the House is in favour of them. It enables the Government to fulfil a promise made by the President of the Republic. Its purpose is to create a new honorary mention entitled "Death for the service of the Republic" for the benefit of military personnel or public officials belonging to bodies or entities usually exposed to dangerous situations, such as police officers, professional or voluntary firefighters, customs or prison officers and rescuers at sea. Persons who have died during the performance of their duties in exceptional circumstances or by performing acts of particular bravery, in particular in order to save lives, or in situations of particular danger or risk, shall be entitled to this mention. The amendment also opens the possibility for the Prime Minister to assign the benefit of this mention to other categories of persons, when an exposure to danger or an exceptional situation concerning them justifies it. In particular, this will allow the Prime Minister to honour the health system personnel who died during the covid -19 pandemic. In response to a strong social demand, this new mechanism makes it possible to recognize symbolically the dedication of some of our fellow citizens engaged in the service of the Republic at the risk of their lives, by returning to the other references provided for in the Code of Military Pensions for Disability and War Victims, "Death for France" and "Death for the Service of the Nation", their own meaning. It will apply to deaths that occurred as of March 21, 2016, the effective date of the decree listing the exceptional circumstances eligible for the mention "Death for the Service of the Nation", and will therefore benefit all those who have unfortunately been affected by the covid -19, without exception. This fulfils the objective of bringing the various honours into line with each other and of clarifying the conditions for the potential opening of the rights attached to the different pupil's statutes. This mention is accompanied by the creation of a new status as a "pupil of the Republic" for orphans of deceased persons and beneficiaries of the mention "Death for the service of the Republic". It provides them, up to and including the age of 21, with the protection and material and moral support of the State for their education, under conditions similar to those granted to pupils of the Nation from a fiscal, social and educational point of view. On the tax side, the amendment amends in particular three articles of the General Tax Code to provide the pupils of the Republic with the same advantages as the pupils of the Nation in respect of transfer rights free of charge, donations and bequests as well as transfer taxes in case of succession opened by the death of the pupil's parent. A decree in the Council of State will make it possible to specify how this new Pupil Status of the Republic is to be applied, which cannot, of course, be combined with the existing arrangements. In particular, it will enable pupils of the Republic to benefit from easier access to national education grants under the same conditions as pupils of the Nation. Finally, the amendment amends the section of the Military Disability Pensions Code relating to the reference to "Death for the Service of the Nation", so as to limit it more clearly to cases of death as a result of the assault of a third party. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I know that this amendment, which has been desired by many groups, satisfies, on the occasion of the rapporteur's proposal for a law, a request repeatedly repeated by many of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u378	Perfect! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u379	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 688.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u380	I share the words of the Minister of the Interior. We can collectively be very proud of this article, which comes not to redress an injustice, but to fill a legal vacuum that has existed for decades. It will allow us to recognize the rights of children whose parents have lost their lives as part of a non-military commitment. I regret, moreover, that in the last few days more has been said about other sections of the bill than about it, in my view, much more important. Like the minister, I take advantage of the introduction of these amendments to have a thought for caregivers who died during the crisis of the Covid-19. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I would like to provide a clarification to reassure firefighters and their associations. This status will complement, and certainly not replace, the existing arrangements. I am thinking in particular of the work of the pupils, who have been taking care of orphans for almost a century. Associations will therefore be able to continue their work with children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u381	I call Mr Jolivet to support Amendment No. 778.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u382	I'd like to share my emotion with you. Our Assembly is indeed invited this evening to vote on an amendment tabled by the Government following resolution No. 2962, which we adopted unanimously here. Since that vote, the President of the Republic has adopted this resolution. It thus wished to bring to all the children concerned the recognition of the nation by creating a new status, that of pupil of the Republic. I cannot help but think of the drama behind this resolution, of which I had the honour of being the rapporteur, to these four children, Christiane, Anouchka, Logan and Dylan, orphans of their mother. She herself widowed, she was a caregiver at Châteauroux Hospital and died from her commitment against the covid-19. It was for them that I had written this resolution. The Government has decided to extend the benefit of this new status to the children of other parents who have died as a result of their exceptional commitment. Up to the age of 21, they will be able to benefit from state support similar to that granted to the pupils of the nation. This amendment also creates the mention "Death for the service of the Republic", act of just recognition of the commitment of exception. I want to tell you today that I am proud to be a legislator, because this amendment invites us, through actions, to give substance to fraternity. I therefore invite you to vote unanimously, as a year ago: the children of those who died for the service of the Republic need you. I would like to associate all the group presidents, as well as some colleagues, in particular Gilles Le Gendre, who had agreed to defend this resolution with me, Philippe Gosselin, Jean-Paul Dufrègne, and finally Fabien Matras, our rapporteur. [[Applause on many benches]] On your behalf, I acknowledge the Prime Minister's success in bringing about the unanimous will of our Assembly and thank the President of the Republic for having been the guarantor of one of the pillars of the Republic: fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u383	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u384	I thank Mr Jolivet for defending this amendment and also for quoting me. As I recall with emotion, as early as April 2020, with some 90 colleagues from all political backgrounds and from every bench, we tabled a bill along the same lines, that of recognition of the dead and their children, the pupils. It was referred to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u385	We are meeting tonight, MPs from all walks of life, so that this recognition can finally be given to all the personnel who die under special conditions, linked to the covid-19 but not only, and to protect their children through the Pupil status not of the Nation, but of the Republic. I will repeat an expression that may seem dated: "They have rights over us. It dates back to the First World War, since the mention "Death for France" and the Pupil status of the Nation date back to that time. [[Applause on several benches of the LR group, as well as on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] If they have rights over us, we have a duty to be unanimous this evening in order to welcome their commitment and thus demonstrate, in a very concrete way, the recognition not only of parliamentarians – it is no doubt, but it is very secondary – but also, more broadly and emotionally, of the nation. Words make sense: tonight, here, we are a nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u386	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u387	Of course, we agree with the content of these amendments – as we agreed with the content of the original article – and with the comments of our colleagues. We will vote on these amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, I would like to point out that in view of the atmosphere in which these discussions are taking place, the content of this article and the additions proposed by the Government on behalf of the President of the Republic, it would have been useful for all the groups to co-sign an identical amendment. That would have been a strong signal. I say it with simplicity, it would have been a good practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u388	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u389	That would have been too much to ask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u390	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u391	We will, of course, also vote on these amendments. I agree with Mr Viala, although perhaps our unanimous vote will make up for this omission. I just want to point out that this amendment opens up the possibility for the Prime Minister to assign the benefit of this mention to other categories of people in exceptional circumstances. I am thinking of certain categories that are not mentioned in this amendment, in particular teachers who may have lost their lives in the context of a terrorist act. I would like this amendment and this paragraph to allow, in some cases, this honour to be given to our officials who have lost their lives in tragic circumstances in serving the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u392	I am sure that those who have not had the opportunity to speak fully associate themselves with all the words that have been spoken – they have been spoken by our assembled assembly. I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 607, 688 and 778.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u393	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 78 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 78 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u394	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-26-O1286.u395	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law on civil security and firefighters. The meeting is adjourned.
