ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to relations with local and regional authorities (No 4524, Annex 35; 4525, Volume VI) and to the financial assistance account Advances to local and regional authorities (No 4524, Annex 35). Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u3	The appropriations of the Mission Relations with local authorities, or RCT, are part of a much larger whole, consisting of financial transfers from the State to local authorities. They will amount to more than EUR 105.5 billion in 2022, up 1.3 billion from 2021. This considerable amount corresponds mainly to the tax transferred, for EUR 41 billion, and to the financial assistance, for EUR 53 billion. With the RCT mission, the State pursues four key objectives: to support local investment, to strengthen vertical equalization, to compensate for the costs transferred within the framework of decentralization and to demonstrate national solidarity towards fragile communities. As in 2021, the RCT mission's appropriations will benefit from a significant increase in 2022, as commitment authorisations (EA) will be increased to €4.6 billion, up by almost 10%, and payment appropriations (CP) increase by 8.1% to €4.2 billion. The €400 million increase in commitment authorisations in 2022 corresponds to five new measures. First of all, an additional €337 million is being opened under the DSIL, the local investment support allocation, which will reach €907 million. These additional appropriations will be used, inter alia, to finance the green recovery and transition contracts and the programmes to revitalize the centralities of small and medium-sized towns, requested by all the elected representatives of France. Second new measure: the biodiversity allocation, which has been helping communities to bear the burden of protecting natural areas since 2019, has doubled its appropriations to €20 million, covering an additional 2000 municipalities. Individual responsibilities are still modest, but this is in the right direction. Third measure: €20 million is also planned to support the Seine-Saint-Denis investments in the framework of the agreement signed with the State for the recentralisation of the RSA. This agreement gives flexibility to a department that cumulates frailties, and demonstrates that the state is there to support communities. Fourth measure: an exceptional allocation of €52 million for the departments. Finally, the allocation of solidarity to communities facing climate hazards will be abounded by 66 million euros and complemented by a fund to rebuild the Alpes-Maritimes of 150 million euros, in accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic to the elected representatives of the communities hit by storm Alex in 2020. A total of €2.3 billion is spent on investment, €2.1 billion on compensation and over €150 million on specific aid. As regards payment appropriations, the increase is linked to the electoral cycle and the maturity of the investment allocations, but above all to the EUR 276 million entered for the exceptional DSIL, whose commitment authorisations are entirely consumed to date and which has played its full role in the recovery, which is to be welcomed. There are four items related to this mission. Article 45 deals with the allocation of investment support to departments, or DSIDs, divided into two parts, the former being divided between departments by regional prefects according to a logic of calls for projects, the other being paid directly to the department's operating section. The proposed amendment is to align the allocation of the second fraction with the first. This is a good thing, because it will give more clarity and simplicity to the award procedure and will allow the same leverage effect at the departmental level as that generated by the allocations of the communal block. With Article 46, a fourth part of the allocation for the protection of biodiversity will be created for the benefit of rural communes located in a regional natural park and the scope of the Natura 2000 fraction will be extended, thus contributing to the greening of State assistance to communities. The distribution of the DGF, or overall operating allocation, which is the subject of Article 47, is characterised this year by an increase in equalisation even greater than in 2021, with an additional EUR 230 million. The catch-up of the DACOM, the development of the overseas communes and territorial districts, is continuing at a very steady pace. The equalization of municipalities has reached a historic level: 43.7% of the DGF of municipalities aims to reduce inequalities between territories. I would also point out that the DGF has been stabilized since 2018 and that the reductions applied to adjustment variables have never been so low: 50 million euros only in 2022 compared to almost ten times more in 2017. Finally, the DGF, it should be noted that Article 47 provides for the further revision of the financial indicators initiated last year, in compliance with the work of the Local Finance Committee, with the aim of ensuring stability of the allocations by 2022. An equalization of the regions will finally come about with this finance bill. Finally, Article 48, created an exceptional allocation to compensate the departments for the decrease in 2022 following the reform of production taxes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since the beginning of this quinquennium, we have endeavoured – and this will be my conclusion – to give territorial communities stability and visibility on their finances, by stabilizing operating endowments, by providing the necessary resources for the investment of communities that have continued to invest despite the crisis and by strengthening solidarity between communities. Overall, despite the crisis and whatever indicators are considered – self-financing capacity, revenue, cash flow or investment – communities are in a better financial position in 2021 than in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u4	I call Mrs Emilie Guerel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u5	I will not go back to the appropriations for the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, which were presented by the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Community Relations and by the Special Rapporteur, and which illustrate the fact that the support given to local communities by our majority has been constant throughout the legislature. While the recovery plan is at the height of its deployment, I have chosen this year to work on the springs of its territorial decline. The recovery plan presented to the Council of Ministers on 3 September 2020 is unprecedented in its scale and ambitions. First of all, it is part of a European framework for which France and the President of the Republic have worked: these are the 750 billion euros of the Next Generation EU plan, of which 40 billion have been allocated to France. With this momentum, the Government has been able to build a €100 billion plan, to which three priorities have been assigned: ecology, competitiveness and territorial cohesion. The latter were at the heart of the roll-out of the recovery plan: on 28 September, the Prime Minister signed a partnership agreement with the regional presidents and on 23 October a circular on the territorial implementation of the plan was issued. It was based on a specific comitology, including regional steering and monitoring committees and departmental committees of the recovery plan. As close as possible to the territories, the sub-prefects for recovery have also been involved, who have not had the easy task in the face of the scale of the scheme, but who have played a role of animation and information indispensable for the proper dissemination of the plan in our territories and for its appropriation by the various actors concerned. We see it on the ground every day and the French are not mistaken: the results are visible and immediate. To date, €48 billion has already been committed, with the goal of reaching €70 billion by the end of the year. I would like to point out that these results are visible in all the territories of metropolis or overseas and that no territory has been forgotten. The recovery plan has not been deployed to the detriment of small communities or those most in difficulty: nearly 2 billion euros have been allocated to the neighbourhoods of the city's policy and 8 billion euros to the rural areas. Moreover, the results are immediately visible on activity, which is expected to return from the end of the year to the pre-crisis level: growth has thus been revised upwards and is expected to reach 6.3% by 2021. In addition, to boost local investment, the plan relied on massive support for local authorities. In total, all state support to local authorities, operating and investing in any form, has reached around €4 billion, of which almost €2.5 billion is for local investment, the leverage of which is crucial to the success of the plan. I will highlight four exceptional schemes that have been implemented: for the municipal block, the exceptional DSIL of €950 million and the thermal renovation of €650 million; for the departments, the DSID thermal renovation of 300 million euros; for the regions, a regional investment allocation (RDI) of EUR 600 million; Finally, the basis for the territorialisation of the recovery plan, a proven tool in the management of relations between the State and local and regional authorities: contracting. The recovery plan and the ongoing renewal of the contracts for the State-region plan (CPER) for the period 2021-2027 provide an opportunity to recast the contractual policy on two levels: with these CPERs and the convergence and transformation contracts for the overseas, and with the contracts for the revival and ecological transition, or CRTE. It is also an opportunity to adapt these tools to the challenges of the health crisis we face. The hearings that I conducted provided an opportunity to take stock of the deployment of the TENs, which appear to be very useful tools for implementing the land projects at the level of the basin of life, since the 843 perimeters of the TENs developed are based at least on the intercommunal scale. To date, approximately 300 contracts and 500 protocols have been signed. I am pleased that an additional €337 million has been mobilised by this finance bill in the DS1L to support their deployment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The successful territorial declination of the recovery plan has once again highlighted the challenge for local and regional authorities to be sufficiently equipped or accompanied to take advantage of the various mechanisms proposed. The rise in the powers of local and regional authorities in this area is a recurrent demand and I take this opportunity to support and relay it to this forum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u6	We come to the expression of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u7	What is the record of the five years that have passed for the local authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u8	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u9	This judgment belongs to you, Mr. Special Rapporteur! If we simply look at the amounts of FMD, we might be tempted to conclude that there is relative stability. This allocation, which amounted to €27 billion in the PLF, or draft finance law, for 2018, is set at €26.78 billion for next year. Do we have to settle for it? Enjoying it? Let us turn to the EUR 4.2 billion in payment appropriations that this mission concentrates on Relations with local and regional authorities. In addressing the review of this mission, we all know that we have only a very partial view of the relationship between the state and communities. These are special relationships that – I speak as a local elected official – are not marked by lasting trust, which I regret. Behind the figures in this budget 2022, the elected representatives and their associations try to convey to you their desires, their dismay and their concern. First of all, the association Régions de France denounces the reduction of almost 50 million euros in the envelope of the regions, to which our Libertés et territoires group is of course opposed. Indeed, you note the decrease in the regional shares of the compensation for the reform of the trade tax and the so-called square allocation, for 25 million each. This decline reflects a lack of confidence, a fear of the regional level, even though the regions are on the front line of the recovery plan. The Brittany region, for example, was heavily tapped and mobilised €680 million for investment in 2021. This is still costing us EUR 8 million, which is not nothing in our budget. Regions of France estimates that since 2017, between reductions in allocations and abolitions of compensations, the budget of the regions has been cut by €850 million. However, the regions are essential partners for the economy and the overall articulation of our country – partners whose state cannot do without it. Would he be wary of it? Go and find out! The second point concerns the reforms that this mission includes. It has positive elements. I am thinking in particular of the revision of the financial indicators according to the recommendations of the Local Finance Committee (CFL). However, we need to be vigilant as its implementation can lead to the allocation of eligibility to the allocations of certain municipalities. If necessary, changes will have to be made along the way. The reform seems to you to be engraved in the marble at the expense of the temporary nature recommended by the CFL. It is time to assess the impacts of the measures deployed. The Libertés et Territoires Group also welcomes the doubling of the biodiversity allocation towards greening state budget support. We talked about it in committee. Other reforms seem more risky, in particular that of regional equalization which you propose by amendment, at the last minute and without impact assessment. Some regions alert us to the circumvention of the 2020 agreement with the state. In principle, the regions had to agree on equalization, after which the Government had pledged to validate the agreement. This does not seem to be the case since the Government has worked alone, without Regions of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u10	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u11	In any case, that is what Regions of France says.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u12	We have to make it clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u13	I'm here to carry his message! As you know, the truth is born of contradiction. Our final grievance is the loss of community autonomy. If the state recognizes the fiscal power of the communities, the very idea of fiscal autonomy is rejected as a whole by the budget rapporteur and the Minister of Public Accounts. As for financial autonomy, it is a reality that is about to disappear. The removal of the housing tax, the reduction of production taxes: all your choices have permanently eroded this autonomy while it materializes the link between local citizens and communities. The transfer of VAT shares is not enough. It leaves no freedom to local elected officials because it is unable to adjust the rate of this national tax. Our group is calling for profound reform to ensure full freedom of choice for communities. This budget 2022 goes in the opposite direction, but it has been so for a long time, and you are not the first to do so. I take one last example: Article 45 attached which modifies the DSID and leads to the concentration of all attribution powers in the hands of the regional prefect alone to the detriment of the chairmen of departmental councils. Again, this reflects the verticality of your public policies. In conclusion, this quinquennium will have contributed to a loss of financial autonomy for local communities, the erosion of their meagre fiscal power, their underperfusion by means of endowments and, ultimately, the breakdown of the link between the local taxpayer and the elected representatives of the communities. We agree, it's a movement that started long before you, and that somewhere ends, but we see inflection in the other direction. That is precisely what we are advocating for. Our group will therefore vote against the appropriations for this mission which do not in any way reflect the needs of the communities, at least not those who have spoken. In our view, there is a real method problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u14	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u15	Today and for the last time in this Parliament, we are looking at the mission of Relations with Territorial Communities. Before mentioning the Mission's appropriations and related items, I would like to take stock of your quinquennium in this area. Under the previous legislature, some know that I had led a mission, at the request of the Prime Minister, on a redesign of the DGF, noting tools and mechanisms which, following successive partial reforms, generated inequalities and inconsistencies overall. This situation was exacerbated by the contribution to the recovery of public finances and by the freezing of the DGF envelope and the implementation of the capping of the lump sum allocation. I regret, as I said at the time, that the reform of the DGF was abandoned after having been included in a finance bill. At that time, political courage was lacking. What a waste! I regret to note that at the end of this mandate this Government also lacked political courage and made the choice to abandon any reform of the DGF with the consequences that I will develop earlier. Above all, I regret that you chose to remove the housing tax and some of the so-called production taxes, drastically reducing the tax autonomy of the communities. The removal of the housing tax will first benefit the most affluent households and will have no impact on the 5 million households not subject to it. Beyond that, this abolition raises a fundamental question: who should pay for the public service? This reform breaks the link between the taxpayer and local public services and makes them a mere consumer of local public services. As you know, not all public services are tariffable. This is the case with the use of the communal public space. This is also an additional blow to the financial and fiscal autonomy of the communities, which, for the most part, will be forced to compensate for the deficiencies of the correction coefficient over time by an increase in the property tax. In the end, to make tax gifts with the money of others, the President of the Republic will have only put local elected officials a little more in the front line. Of course, your local government policy was not only negative, and honesty obliges me to commend the effort made on the investment support allocations that have made significant progress during this quinquennium and that I hope will be sustainable. You have also maintained the increase in the equalization allocations of urban solidarity and cohesion (SSU) and the allocation of rural solidarity (SSR), without, however, changing the funding. It is the communities themselves that pay for the increase in equalization. I also welcome, in spite of our differences, the quality of the work and the exchanges that we have had with our rapporteurs and the Government on these issues, and I know that you share, without all the solutions, a number of observations. I come to the exercise of the finance bill for 2022. I welcomed the effort made on local investment support allocations, but it seems to me that a better division between the provision of equipment in rural areas (DETR) and the DSIL is necessary in order to allow equal access, in particular to rural municipalities, to this support. I have also proposed, together with our colleague François Jolivet, measures on eligibility for DETR on the one hand, and on the process of selecting dossiers on the other. We must ensure a fair distribution of the envelope between the projects that are submitted and those that are not submitted to the DETR Committee. We must also harmonize, except by law at least by circular, the dates and deadlines for filing subsidy files in order to give visibility to local elected officials. I would also like to come back to the issue of financing the constraints within the DGF through the mechanism of capping the lump sum allocation. We reach the end of the process while the "richest" municipalities are now in negative DGF and protected from this craving. From next year onwards, the City of Paris will be added, and the contribution of EUR 25 million will be deferred to the other municipalities. Many beneficiaries of the DSU and DSR target ex-fractions are now self-financing their own equalization, sometimes zero-sum. The spring is not far from the point of rupture and we must take the collective commitment of a new device for 2023. Finally, a word to raise the question of the financial indicators used for equalization allocations in particular. They need to be updated, as a result of the change in the pool of resources of the communities, but this must be transitional before a recast allows an appreciation of the real wealth of the territories. We know that, and the case of Nanterre and Gennevilliers had motivated the ceilings of the National Fund for the Equalization of Intercommunal and Communal Resources (FPIC) and the Solidarity Fund of the Communes of the Ile-de-France region (FSRIF). A municipality can have high tax potential and a very poor population. The tax effort cannot be decorated with the value of the bases and per capita income. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] I hope that we can take a date, regardless of the deadlines for next spring, so that these projects will be committed by the time of the 2023 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u16	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u17	After an unprecedented health crisis in which the State has relied, and even relied on the local authorities that have been the first medical cordons on the ground, we regret that the 2022 budget for local authorities does not allow the difficulties that have been accumulated for more than a year and a half to be wiped out. Evidence of this is such an illustrative example of your policy in this regard: as you extend the state of health emergency until July 31, 2022, by brandishing the threat of a possible epidemic recovery, you decide at the same time to put an end to community support for the purchase of masks. However, in view of this fact, your failure in the last regional and departmental elections in June sheds a little light on your inability to embody proximity and bring local democracy to life. In fact, again in 2022, despite the announcements and formulas on this subject, local elected officials are not fooled: the resources allocated to local authorities are still in real decline. With this last budget, you also reaffirm a form of oversight and control of local budgets by the state, in disregard of the financial autonomy of the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u18	It's a communist who tells you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u19	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u20	Take the example of DGF. It was announced stable in 2022, with 18.3 billion for the municipal block and 8.5 billion for the departments, or 26.8 billion euros in total. But in reality, with the commitment of more than 2.2 billion additional expenditure to deal with the crisis, with the stagnation of the scope and the amount of the DGF, your budget cannot hide that the level of the DGF for 2022 does not compensate for new expenses or revenue losses for more than a year. Worse, this amount of the DGF is also blind to the weight of inflation, which in reality results in a loss of DGF of EUR 1 billion compared to last year, as pointed out by the Chairman of the Committee on Local Finance. This decline over the last five years of the DGF is not the only attack you have brought against the autonomy of local communities. It is in addition to the reduction of the tax powers of the communities and the detrictness of their resources: first, the permanent elimination of 10 billion per year of revenues from the said taxes of production – contribution on the value added of enterprises (CVAE) and contribution on business land (CFE) – without dynamic compensation or to the nearest euro for the local authorities;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u21	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u22	...then the centralisation of the final electricity consumption tax and the nationalisation of its 2.3 billion revenues last year – this is probably not true as well; or the complete non-compensation of revenue losses for communities due to the health crisis in 2020; Finally, the loss of the housing tax, which represents more than € 21.6 billion for municipalities and intercommunalities, for which there is still no dynamic compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u23	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u24	This abolition benefits above all the most affluent – but it is probably not true too, Mr Special Rapporteur – and above all not those who did not pay for it. But this too is probably not true. Your local balance sheet, it's always more tax gifts that have weakened the finances of our communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u25	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u26	Since 2017, the share of tax with rate power in local government operating revenues has lost 8 points. Is that correct? Unfortunately, we fear that the worst is not behind us: what about the return of financial contracting with Cahors' contracts? It could indeed come back to the table and accelerate as soon as next year. Of course, this budget 2022 brings some improvements on important points, such as the increase in the amount allocated to DSIL to support local investment despite a lack of dangling. We also welcome the experiment in recentralizing the RSA at the request of the departmental councils. This recentralisation already introduced for the Seine-Saint-Denis department from 2022 onwards will allow the most exsangue departments to breathe, provided that the State does not collect in the pocket of the departments a share of the transfer rights for consideration (DMTO) as compensation. However, despite some positive points, we regret that after five years, your majority continues to weaken, budget after budget, our local democracy. Whether it is an expression of a lack of knowledge of local realities or a deliberate political will, this situation can only lead us to vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u27	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u28	Let us say from the outset that the appropriations for the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, which we are considering today, are receiving a significant increase of almost 10% in commitment authorisations, an increase of EUR 4.6 billion, and an increase of 8.10% in payment appropriations, an increase of EUR 4.4 billion. In the appropriations for this mission, it should be stressed that the total operating budget remains stable, as has already been said, with EUR 26.8 billion, of which EUR 18.3 billion for the municipal block and EUR 8.5 billion for the departments. It should be noted that the current amount of the DGF represents no less than 7% of the state budget. Above all, this stability and consolidation of the DGF follows a decrease of 11 billion euros from 2012 to 2017, during the previous parliamentary term. I can tell you easily because, at the time, I was mayor of a commune of 2000 inhabitants. In concrete terms, the majority of the time had asked the local authorities to participate in the correction of public accounts. The municipalities were able to meet this challenge when, I still remember, our endowments were reduced by 20 to 25%. I also remember how, under the penultimate legislature, in 2009, the territorial economic contribution (TEC) had replaced the business tax. At that time, our colleague Gilles Carrez, the then general rapporteur of the budget, had declared that "the protection of public finances had not been a guiding principle" for the design of this reform... Sweet euphemism! These reminders must lead us all, as we approach the Congress of Mayors, to a great deal of modesty when it comes to defending the interests of our local and regional authorities in general and our communes in particular. I would also like to mention in this connection our former colleague Christophe Bouillon, mayor of Barentin and president of the Association des petites villes de France (APVF), who, questioned on the 2022 budget, declared on 6 October last in an interview at La Gazette des communes: "The DGF has not fallen since 2017, it is a good thing. » As far as investments are concerned, I recall that last September, at the APVF Congress, the Prime Minister, on your proposal, Madam Minister, made a commitment for 2022 to increase the DSIL by 350 million euros for small cities to "come abound your contracts, the CRTEs and in particular all that concerns the revitalization of your city centres. This morning, it can be said that this commitment has been fulfilled. It is also important to welcome the support of local authorities in the face of the health crisis, which has made the impact of the crisis on local finances as limited as possible. The crisis cost local authorities €4 billion in 2020, or 1.7% of their budget. In total, 10 billion euros have been brought in to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u29	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u30	These appropriations are allocated as follows: 2.6 billion under the PLFR3, 2.2 billion under the PLFR4, 2.4 billion under the PLF 2021 and 2.9 billion under the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u32	As we look at this budget, it should be stressed that, although local public finances have lost 1.6 % of their revenue, the Court of Auditors has recently recalled that this deterioration is "less than anticipated" and that it remains limited in the light of the growth in national public accounts due to the health crisis. In addition, it should be recalled that local resources are expected to increase again for a very large majority of these communities thanks to the business property tax (CFE), VAT, property tax or transfer fees (DMTO), which are very dynamic in many departments – particularly in Brittany, a region I know well. Our local authorities therefore have a lot of assets in hand to get on the road to the necessary recovery in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u33	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u34	They benefit primarily from the aid provided by the France Relance plan and from a mobilisation by the State of 2.5 billion euros, including 950 million euros from exceptional DSIL for the financing of the ecological transition – to which the municipalities will take their full part –, 950 million euros for the thermal renovation of the municipal and departmental buildings and 600 million euros in support of the investments of the regions. Finally, over the five-year period, the municipalities and rural intercommunalities received more than EUR 5.2 billion in DETR compared with only EUR 3.5 billion in the previous term. [[Applause on the panel's benches]] The State, ladies and gentlemen, plays its role as the first partner of local authorities to support and leverage public investment, which generates growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u35	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u36	This last budget of the legislature is an opportunity to recall that the finances of local and regional authorities have undergone many upheavals over the past five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u37	Especially down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u38	And especially in Alsace, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u39	The most emblematic measure was the abolition of the housing tax, which deprived municipalities and departments of their main levers and, consequently, of a large part of their financial autonomy. Yet, for more than twenty months, these same communities have been at the forefront of mitigating the effects of the health crisis in their territory and preparing for recovery. It is in this context that the 2022 budget and the state's relations with local and regional authorities must be judged. Support for public investment in the PLF 2022 is important, although it must be even more ambitious in supporting the self-financing capacity of communities, which provide two-thirds of public investment. We noted the increase in the DSIL, while recalling that its distribution completely escapes the deliberation of local elected officials and remains in the hands of the prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u41	Let us also note that it will be partly recycled in the CRTE. Like the mayors of France, we also welcome the abandonment of the reform of the flat-rate taxation on network companies (IFER). The Government has taken the right decision not to reduce, for once, a tax resource for local communities. More generally, the PLF 2022 strengthens the government's control of local budgets without taking into account the pace of investment specific to local authorities. In this, he lacks breath and ambition. The tax cuts decided by the State since 2020 have resulted in a loss of control over local government revenues of more than €26 billion per year. The DGF is maintained with the freezing of endowments, but it also means that more than half of the communities in the communal block will continue to decline. In this context, local elected officials and their representative associations have told us of their expectations and demands. They want financial autonomy to be restored to communities; land development operations should be reintegrated into the VAT compensation fund (VATF) base in order to support economic recovery and the ecological transition; that the decline in government allocations be halted; and that our communities be accompanied in the aftermath of the crisis for a successful recovery. They also expressed their opposition to the financing of the recentralization of the AHR through a levy from the DMTO equalization fund. I cannot use this time without referring to the situation of the communities that have been closed to ski lifts – a subject that is well known to the Secretary of State for Rural Affairs. If compensation is provided, the departments are unfortunately completely excluded. As far as municipalities are concerned, the way in which the mechanism is calculated is quite unfavourable to them because of the failure to take into account certain losses such as state revenues and public service delegation fees, but also because of the comparison of 2020 revenues with the 2017-2019 revenue average and not with the 2019 revenue alone, which penalises communities that were on a positive dynamic in recent years. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, municipal authorities such as those responsible for rescue missions in ski areas, those responsible for the distribution of water or the management of car parks, are not treated. Finally, as a major contributor to the ICPF, these communities would welcome the government's relief by removing or reducing their contributions for many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u43	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u44	The review of the Mission's appropriations for Relations with Territorial Communities for 2022 allows us to assess the relationship between the state and communities over the past four years. Without pretending that everything has been simple in this area and that no disagreement has emerged, or even remains, between the state and the communities, it seems to me that some of these conflicts are, probably on both sides, part of a game of posture. I want to highlight several points here, before specifically referring to the RCT mission and related articles. This Parliament was first of all that of stability. Stability first of all of the legal framework. Of course, the skills of communities have evolved and continue to evolve, particularly in Bill 3DS (differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification), which we welcome and which we will examine in the coming weeks, but nothing like a big bang. I would also like to assure the minister that she will find in the Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats of faithful allies in the examination of this text, who will restore the text where it should be, enrich it when necessary and adopt it because it is a good and fair text! Stability also of the overall operating endowment. It must be recognized that in this regard, we have heard the demands of the territories, whereas the same DGF seemed to have become a variable for adjusting the state budget. This stability of the DGF allows me to mention a second aspect of the method that this majority has tried to wear since 2017: trust. This confidence can be illustrated by the Cahors contract, proposed by the President of the Republic to the communities in the first months of his term of office. Far from being reflected in a blind decline in endowments, the involvement of communities in the effort to recover public finances has led to a partnership – albeit still incomplete in our view, but which should be welcomed – between the state and local authorities. This priority given to trust in communities is also reflected, within the scope of the RCT mission, in the place given to regions, departments and the communal bloc in the territorialization of the recovery plan. The year 2022 will be that of an increase in the payment appropriations of the DSIL, an exceptional amount of €950 million foreseen under the France Recovery plan, with particular attention to the heritage, the health resilience and the energy transition. This exceptional DSIL, voted by the majority, makes it possible to finance almost all of the energy renovation of certain public facilities in many territories. The common law DSIL is increased this year by almost a third to reach 907 million euros, which is intended to reinvigorate the city centres of our towns and medium-sized towns, which are the true heart of social life for many territories. Other specific developments in this Parliament need to be highlighted, and I know the important part that you have made, Minister. Here I would like to welcome the steady increase in the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion, throughout the past four years, with an exceptional effort this year, to which is added the reform of the political endowment of the city (DPV) in 2019 – a reform, certainly not yet completed – which now makes even better use of investments to the neighbourhoods and municipalities that need it most. However, I should like to express my regret. It concerns the Government's refusal since last year to increase the solidarity fund of the communes of the Ile-de-France region. Indeed, it would seem reasonable to me to take to the richest municipalities in Ile-de-France to give to the poorest, to the tune of 20 million euros. I would also like to highlight the creation of new endowments, which are designed to best respond to specific situations in communities. Thus, the replacement of the global equipment endowment (GED) by the investment support endowment of the departments in 2019 has made it possible to adapt the state support to the new missions of the departments. I cannot ignore the provision of support to municipalities for the protection of biodiversity, which targets those whose large part of the territory is located in Natura 2000 zone, in national park or in marine natural park, to help them finance the specific needs of this classification. The amount and number of eligible communities are also expected to double by 2022. If everything is not perfect, much has already been done, and we can defend this record without blushing. We will continue to work to improve it, and I know, Minister, Secretary of State, that we will always find you at our side to do so. [[Applause on the panel benches. – Mr Bruno Questel also applauds]] Members of the Dem Group will obviously vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u45	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u46	"It is a budget similar to the previous year's and the previous year's. When the overall operating allocation stagnates for four years in a row, it ends up a trend decline and continues. In this PLF, there is nothing to match the investment shock. " Some of you know that these words are not mine, they are those of the Chairman of the Local Finance Committee (CFL). The representatives of the local and regional authorities are tired and worried, and so are we. Every year, they see their financial situation worsen a little more,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u47	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u48	... fearing in advance the bad news of the following year. Since the beginning of this quinquennium, things have worsened further, particularly as a result of the pressure imposed by local spending contracts. With this PLF, once again, the DGF is falling. It drops by 2 small million which may seem anodistic but which are no longer so at all once inflation is taken into account. This decline is all the more shocking as it occurs after two years of intensive recourse to local and regional authorities in the management of the covid crisis. Instead of thanking them, instead of relieving them, instead of ensuring that they have the means to carry out their missions, they are rather beaten and abandoned in part. We're even taking away the help to buy the masks! Ladies and gentlemen, were you not there when we all saw in 2020 the shortage of masks everywhere in France, a disaster that had occurred because we had not anticipated anything and because we neglected to buy purchases on the pretext that there was no crisis going on? Would you have learned no lesson from this fiasco? Do you think that the purchase of masks should only be supported in the midst of a crisis? Above all, I wonder if the government that is putting an end to the aid for the purchase of masks is the same as the government that is asking us to extend the state of emergency and the health pass until July 2022? How can we be told that the situation is serious and that we must remain vigilant when it comes to limiting the individual freedoms and power of Parliament and, at the same time, that everything is well and that the crisis is behind us when it comes to financing masks to protect people in practice? How can we be made to vote on two measures which are so fundamentally contradictory within a few days? These questions are all the more important since the wearing of the mask is still mandatory in many places, not to mention its need from a health point of view. This argument alone should have been enough for a long time to convince you to finance free masks for all, for the protection of all and for Republican equality. Instead, you'd rather do the opposite and cut budgets, always ready to grab a penny as long as it's not about giving gifts to the richest. That's exactly what you did with the housing tax, since you removed it unscrupulously for the richest 20%. But strangely, scruples, you have much more now than it is to compensate for the losses for the communities. In theory, you will proceed with this compensation, since you have no choice. The problem, as you know, is that this compensation is far from being equal to the losses!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u49	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u50	Then you can speak, Mr. Special Rapporteur. You're on committee benches, you don't have to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u51	Please proceed, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u52	Mr President, I recall the Republican rules because some people forget them here. Neither the rapporteurs nor the ministers have to make remarks while a Member is speaking in the rostrum. The Senate's projections clearly show that if the housing tax had been maintained, its revenues would have increased by another $4 billion in 2020, which you do not take into account at all. In the long run, by 2023, the loss of profits for communities will amount to billions and the Government knows that! Pass tricks of this kind are no longer acceptable, no one is fooled. It's the same kind of blow you do to us when you defend the renationalization of the RSA to your sauce. We agree on the principle that this renationalization is an emergency for me. However, it is not acceptable that the missing amounts should be deducted directly from the revenue of the departments from the property tax and VAT, and that the compensation should not be total. On the other hand, it is normal for departments to take advantage of the sums allocated to them by the State, taking into account the debts owed to them. Despite your usual satisfaction, despite all the hustle and bustle and the staging, the facts are undeniable: you continue to weaken, precarise and put our local authorities in competition and danger. With them, it is the whole republican pact, equality on the territory, and our fellow citizens in general that you are attacking. I will listen to you earlier, Madam Minister, when you speak, but you do not have to intervene constantly from the bench of the Government. It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u53	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u54	Our debate this morning is an opportunity to return to the appropriations for 2022, of course, but also more broadly to the policy towards local and regional authorities for more than four years. Several words come to mind, starting with that of continuity. This budget for 2022 is in fact a continuation of the policy pursued by the Government and the majority since 2017. For the fifth year in a row, the DGF is stable at a constant perimeter. It is a constancy that we welcome, as we welcome the increase in the DSR and the DSU. However, some communities have experienced losses from FMD, which has forced them into painful arbitrations. I therefore share the idea that we need to move forward on the reform of the DGF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u55	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u56	The government has also been able to support communities, particularly in the face of the crisis that has had an impact on their revenues and expenditures. In total, they received almost EUR 12 billion, a massive support that is bearing fruit, as their financial situation after the crisis is much better than expected. This is also explained, it must be stressed, by the fact that their financial situation before the start of the health crisis was better than it was in 2008. The contractual approach undertaken since 2017, notably with the Cahors contracts, is probably not unrelated to this sound financial management. This reassuring observation must not make us forget that some communities, especially in highly touristic territories, still suffer the harms of the crisis in a more lasting way than others: by 2022, they must always be accompanied. Continuity is also due to the fact that tax reforms undertaken since the beginning of the legislature, such as the abolition of the housing tax or the reduction of production taxes, are offset. If we have supported these arrangements, we must also admit that these reforms have been a major change in local finances. We will therefore need, Madam Minister, to undertake an ambitious reform of the financing of our local and regional authorities. In our constituencies, fiscal autonomy, as well as financial autonomy, remain at the heart of our exchanges with all elected officials, and we must not disappoint them. The second word that comes to mind is investment. Local investment amounts to €20 billion in 2020 and €2021 in addition to the traditional local investment support allocations under Program 119. In 2022, it will be endowed with 4 billion euros in payment appropriations, an unprecedented amount! After the exceptional €950 million envelope for the years 2020 and 2021, which is the subject of an opening of €276 million in payment appropriations for 2022, the additional EUR337 million in DSIL is an additional sign that investment is also going through local authorities and above all through local authorities. They are at the heart of the territories, closer to economic actors and to our citizens. Thus, within the framework of France Recovery, the State has already mobilised €2.5 billion of investment grants for them in 2020 and 2021, which we welcome. Since we are talking about DSIL, I also feel it necessary to refer to the DETR. Minister, we have already had the opportunity to alert you to the urgent need to reform the eligibility criteria for this allocation. In my department of Seine-et-Marne, too many municipalities located in the "new city" sector continue to be eligible for this subsidy, which is done at the expense of rural municipalities. We need to work on this. I come to my last word: support. We have talked a lot about the state's support for local and regional authorities, quite rightly. He responded and we welcome it. Above all, I want to emphasize the day-to-day support provided by communities to our fellow citizens, each at its own level has played a central role and I want to pay a strong tribute to them. [[Applause on the panel's benches]] I sincerely believe that the Mission's funding for Relations with Territorial Communities is commensurate with the challenge and commitment of the communities. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u57	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u58	The budget for this mission is stable, which in itself is a source of satisfaction. I note that the associations of elected representatives welcome the choices chosen. We welcome the continuation of the appropriations of DGF, DSIL and DETR. As far as DETR is concerned, it is often up to me that the mobilisation of all cofinancing takes time and that the commitment period of two or even three years, after the prefect's agreement, is insufficient. Some municipalities fail to complete their financing plan and the DETR grant is lost not only for the municipality but also for the entire department. This budget is at the heart of the difficulties associated with the crisis of the Covid-19. Communities have been at the forefront of the epidemic and are suffering many consequences, while the crisis is not yet completely final for us. While the measures put in place by the Government have so far proved to be positive, the associations of elected representatives fear that some of the effects of covid-19 costs on local budgets will be postponed to 2022. In an investigation, the Association des mayores de France (AMF) and the Bank of the Territories estimated that, as a result of the health crisis, the municipal block would have to face over three years 6 billion euros of gross losses and new expenditure, including 2 billion euros for tariff losses. In its June report, the Court of Auditors points out that the financial impact of the covid-19 crisis has been less significant, but that this should not mask large disparities between certain communities. For example, the departments suffered from the increase in social spending and the small communes and communal blocks found themselves without savings because they had to manage unexpected costs. Under these conditions, communities rely heavily on the recovery plan. If my calculations are correct, 18% of the EUR 40 billion have been allocated to rural areas to date. Let me point out that we could do better if, for once, it is possible to help rural areas without having to get complicated with equalisation and other financial arrangements. Beyond the debate on the amounts, we need more transparency and information on the use of this recovery plan. Indeed, it is difficult to understand how to obtain funding, to which department, for what amount. The prefects themselves are sometimes lost, especially with regard to the regional health agencies (RHAs) which have autonomous management. Is there a minister coordinating the recovery plan? It would be interesting to know. In short, we welcome the gesture, but we regret the lack of clarity and visibility on the operation of the recovery plan, especially since not all departments have a sub-prefect on recovery – I am thinking in particular of mine, the Lozère. This leads me to question you as in the committee on engineering in favour of the municipalities, in particular the smallest and the public institutions for intercommunal cooperation (EPCI). It is necessary that study credits can be mobilised at DETR level as well as at the level of the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion (ANCT) and the Recovery Plan. The cost of master's studies represents almost 30% of the overall cost of an operation. In this regard, a reform of the VATCF could cover certain operating expenses, very close to the Investment Section. Finally, I would like to return to the areas of rural revitalization. I maintain that it is not possible to abolish this mechanism, as advocated by an unfortunate parliamentary report, since it is the only one able to improve the attractiveness of our rural areas to date. Joël Giraud suggested in committee that this could be the subject of a bill. I undertake to table it, however, hoping to have objective figures on the part of the Ministry of Finance, which is not always the case. Finally, it would be desirable for consideration to be given to the DGF to take account of the efforts made by some municipalities and EPCIs to recruit volunteer firefighters. An increase in DGF should reflect the State's recognition of this solidarity action. [[Applause on committee benches]] Despite these reservations, which are not criticisms, the UDI-I Group will vote for the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u59	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u60	Today we are looking at the appropriations of the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. I would like to remind you, at the outset of our discussions, that we are going to examine an envelope of assistance to the communities whose total amount is 52 billion euros in the finance bill for 2022; This represents 20% of local finance, which itself amounts to about 260 billion. In other words, it is a considerable budget but it is far from summarising all the financial issues facing communities. After several of the speakers who have preceded me, I would like to point out that this PLF, for the fifth year in a row, gives concrete expression to our commitment to sanctuarizing the endowments. The President of the Republic committed himself in 2017 to ensuring that the budget does not fall, and we have kept this promise throughout the quinquennium. It is a political choice that we can be proud of and that elected officials on the ground can see every day. I would like to highlight two points. First, in 2022 the DGF amounted to 26.8 billion euros, the same amount as in 2021. This is now a usual figure, but I would point out that, since the DGF represents about 6% of the state budget, it is a very significant effort for the French. By comparison, the amount of the DGF represents twice that of the Security Mission and three times that of the Justice Mission in the State budget. Beyond the DGF, I would point out that community competitions have done better than to remain stable, as they have made significant progress over the five-year period, from 48.1 to more than 52 billion euros. Between 2021 and 2022, the increase represents 525 million CP. It is partly due to new compensatory measures which increase the scope of the envelope, but also to political decisions aimed at giving more of the territories – I am thinking, for example, of the sharp increase in the share of VAT for the regions. For the past five years, we have been seeking to reduce the pledge applied to certain lines each year to compensate for the increase in other lines. In 2022, the proposed pledge is 50 million euros: it is of the same order as last year and almost six times less than the pledge envisaged in the PLF for 2018, which you remember was 293 million euros. This means that we have managed only 9.5% of the EUR 525 million increase in the total envelope. We decided to focus this pledge on two allocations received by the regions, whose funding capacity is higher than that of other levels of communities. I will mention just one figure: in 2020, the regions continued to generate a 19% surplus on their operating budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u62	... compared to 12% for the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u63	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u64	I would then like to highlight a second point: this PLF also includes a budget for local investment, which plays a crucial role in the recovery. That is why we have opened €2.5 billion of grants for local investments in France Recovery – without even mentioning specific programmes, such as the one dedicated to clean public transport, for which EUR 1 billion has been mobilised. These choices pay off: community investment prospects are good in 2021, as they are for 2022. In order to consolidate this trend, the PLF increases investment subsidies to the territories on the DSIL – this was recalled by Didier Le Gac earlier – in particular to finance the recovery and ecological transition contracts and the territorial pacts. These funds complement the usual appropriations of DSIL, FNADT – National Fund for Spatial Planning and Development – or DETR, which are set at their usual amounts: 570 million euros for the classic DSIL, 1.046 billion for the DETR, 150 million for the DPV and 212 million for the DSID. Finally, we propose to reform the DSID allocation modalities, of which 23 per cent of the funds are now allocated directly to eighty-seven departments without being directed towards specific projects. The leverage effect of these loans, which amount to about 1 euro per capita, is residual. As of next year, all DSID credits will therefore be paid in the form of grants. This will make it possible to use these funds more efficiently, thanks to the leverage effect. The third point I would like to stress is that this budget marks a new stage in the area of solidarity between the territories. By 2022, the State will devote more resources to communities with the lowest resources or higher burdens than others. I will mention six important steps in this direction. The first is the strengthening of equalisation allocations, with an additional 95 million for the allocation of urban solidarity and the same amount for the allocation of rural solidarity, compared with 90 million in previous years. In total, over the five-year period, the DSU and the DSR will each have increased by at least EUR 455 million. The second measure is to catch up with the level of staffing of the municipalities in the overseas departments: the reform that we initiated last year will continue at the same rate in 2022. Third, the financing of the RSA in Seine-Saint-Denis will be borne by the State in 2022. Of course, Mr Coquerel, this decision follows an agreement we have signed with the Seine-Saint-Denis department, which has declared itself to be a volunteer to participate in the experiment on the recentralisation of the RSA. The fourth measure is the increase in the allocation of biodiversity, dear to the Secretary of State for Rural Affairs who is accompanying me today, and its enlargement to include new municipalities, in order to enhance the amenities produced by rural areas. On this subject, the Government is presenting an amendment that goes a little further than what was foreseen in the PLF, which we will discuss earlier. We are also planning a specific grant of 254 million euros for the renovation of the schools in Marseille, following the announcements of the President of the Republic. Finally, I would like to mention the implementation of the work on equalisation between regions, in which the State and the regions committed themselves last year. We had a long debate on this subject. We will be discussing this later, but I would like to say to Mr Molac that we have been working on this subject for three months with the regions of France and that, of course, as I said at the beginning of my speech, equalisation is intended to help those who need it most. We agree on this point. Finally, the PLF for 2022 neutralizes the impact of local tax reforms on communities. In accordance with the Government's commitment, the effects of the drop in production taxes will be neutralized for departments which, as planned, will receive compensation of €51.6 million next year. The Government will introduce a similar amendment to neutralize the same phenomenon in regions that would otherwise lose EUR 107 million. We promised that compensation to the regions and we will, of course, keep that commitment, as others do. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, as a follow-up to the Finance Act for 2021, the indicators used to calculate allocations and equalisation funds will be modernised – this has been mentioned by Mrs Pires Beaune – according to the guidelines drawn up by the CFL following the five working groups conducted this year: integration of several taxes into the calculation of the financial potential of municipalities, in order to strengthen the capacity of this indicator to reflect their relative wealth; simplifying the calculation of tax effort; establishing a tunnel to neutralize these developments in 2022 and gradually deploy for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u65	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that their duration is set at two minutes, as is the duration of the answers. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u66	Recent tax reforms make it more necessary than ever to reform local taxation and, more broadly, community resources. This would require a flattening and the construction of new mechanisms adapted to the specificities of the territories. Clearly, we should explore ways to strengthen own taxation, at least for some communities; I am naturally thinking of the community of Corsica, which is at the heart of public action and whose powers are designed to strengthen itself. The creation of the single community has not been accompanied by additional financial resources, despite our repeated demands. Because of its specific economic, spatial, speculative, heritage and cultural characteristics, Corsica should be able to rely on its own fiscal tools and build a dynamic and social development model. One can think of the transfer of environmental and tourism taxation as well as the crucial issue of inheritance taxation, which, like all property tax systems, should be territorialized. In any case, the fight against land dispossession justifies at least an appropriate tax framework. Is the government prepared, Madam Minister, to move forward in this direction – if not in the context of this finance bill, at least on the occasion of Bill 3DS?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u67	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u68	It is true that some communities already have specific taxes. This is the case for Corsica, which receives EUR 126 million in tobacco tax. I note, moreover, that this system does not satisfy everyone, since an amendment proposes to delete it and replace it with VAT. In substance, I would like to join you in saying that there is a need for some differentiation in taxation. This does not shock me that some communities raise taxes that others do not raise, but it is imperative that these taxes be consistent with the purpose that the law assigns to them. It is a constitutional requirement that conditions the very legality of taxation. Thus, the increase in TH on secondary residences is only applicable in areas with high demand for housing: the increase encourages households to rent the housing rather than leave it empty for a large part of the year, which helps to reduce the lack of housing and to control prices. On the other hand, raising taxes in territories where there is enough housing would not be justified, as it is very likely that returning housing to the market would result in more vacant housing. The expansion of such an increase should necessarily be adapted to housing needs. However, I hear what you are saying, honourable Member, and I look carefully at the proposals that come from the Corsican elected representatives, bearing in mind the constitutional constraint.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u69	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u70	My question concerns the regions, the least we can say is that they did not suffer from a state abandonment during the health crisis. In addition to the counterweight of the automatic stabilisers provided for by certain legal guarantees, such as the internal consumption tax on energy products (TICPE), our majority deployed exceptional means such as the compensation of the tax losses of the overseas regions in 2020 and 2021, the neutralisation of the loss of CVAE – which is contracting – by a fraction of the dynamic VAT, and the compensation of the tax revenue losses of Île-de-France Mobilitys. Nevertheless, while the structure of regional economic taxation still has a basket of revenues linked to economic conditions, the regions must be able, even in times of crisis, to invest and support the recovery within the general framework that we know perfectly well. The report by our excellent colleague Jean-René Cazeneuve on the effects of the covid-19 crisis on local finances advocated, for both the regions and the departments, a smoothing mechanism, known as the budgetary snake, under which upsizing resources would feed a precautionary reserve that could be released in the event of a reversal of economic conditions. [[Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, applauded]] The creation of a new equalization mechanism based on resource and burden criteria would enhance the resilience of regional resources, as well as increase community solidarity from 2022 onwards. As it stands, the objective of the regional equalization fund is less to equalize the latter than to regulate their evolution. Madam Minister, could you tell us where the Government's work on this specific issue is going?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u71	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u72	As I said in my speech, with a savings rate of 19% last year, the regions enjoy a clear financial health; and as you have pointed out, this situation is partly due to the action of the State, which, in the framework of the partnership agreement signed with the regions, has committed itself in particular to helping them financially. On the one hand, the statutory guarantees allowed the regions to receive EUR 192 million in compensation for revenue losses. On the other hand, in 2021, the State created a regional investment allocation of 600 million and agreed to guarantee the entire CVAE by transforming it into VAT. Since this was an agreement, the regions made three commitments in return. First, to invest in the CPER 31 billion for the period 2021-2027, double the amount withheld for the previous period; This was an important subject of negotiation, and we will ensure that the objectives are respected. Secondly, to renovate their equalization mechanism: we will come to that when we consider the amendments. Thirdly, to introduce a provisioning mechanism, the so-called fiscal snake, in order to set aside revenues during the years of crisis, which can thus be used in the years of crisis, according to a countercyclical logic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To keep you safe, this mechanism is not yet mature: we will have to resume this discussion with the regions and probably with other levels of communities. A proposal from the departments is already on the table; We work with them – by "we", of course, I mean not only my ministry, but also the parliamentarians and the relevant committees of the National Assembly and the Senate, as well as Olivier Dussopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u73	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u74	Report No. 27 of the Institute of Public Policy (IPP), published in October 2020, contains an in-depth study of the effects of the correction coefficient – the famous "cococo" – applied with a view to the abolition of the housing tax and its fair compensation by transfer to the municipalities of the share of the property tax on built properties (TFPB) previously devolved to the departments. This study was presented at the National Convention of Intercommunalities, organized by the Assembly of the Communities of France (ADCF) and in which you participated, Madam Minister. It confirms the feeling that we expressed in the previous budgetary debates: the overcompensated 2,46566 communes, which must join the state to feed the national fund benefiting the undercompensated communes, have a similar profile, i.e. that the proceeds of the housing tax were structurally low because of low rental values, very low rates or low population density. These are almost exclusively rural or peri-urban communities. Moreover, the impact of the mechanism increases over time, since the dynamics of the bases of the overcompensated municipalities are thus shared with the undercompensated municipalities. We are therefore organizing a national transfer of fiscal wealth from rural to urban areas. Let me read you an excerpt from the report: "In the context of the correction coefficient mechanism, these results involve long-term and dynamic transfers, from less populated and lower-income municipalities on average, to more urban municipalities where the purchasing power of residents is greater. What steps do you intend to take, minister, to correct the scheme and to avoid these transfers, whose consequences we can imagine on the relationship between urban and rural people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u75	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u76	Indeed, the removal of the housing tax has been fully compensated through a sustainable and dynamic tax mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u77	But not satisfying for that matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u78	The transfer to the municipalities of the departmental share of the TFPB allowed them to retain their rate and base power on an amount similar to that which they received before the reform of local taxation. On the other hand, the revenues recovered in this way almost never correspond to those that have been lost, and this is where the "coco", set up to balance the system, the levy made on certain communes and the return to others guaranteeing each one compensation to the euro. It is a little too schematic to claim that this system leads poor rural municipalities to transfer TFPB revenues to large, rich municipalities. First of all, cities like Toulouse, Le Mans, Nancy and Courbevoie return every year. Secondly, we decided that the overcompensation would not give rise to any levy when the transfer of TFPB does not exceed 10000 euros: almost 6800 communes, of which 96% have less than 1000 inhabitants, benefit from this measure and thus have more resources than at the time of the housing tax. Finally, since the rural departments have historically adopted high rates of TFPB to compensate for the weakness of their tax bases, this explains why the municipalities are often overcompensated; In return, the departmental council receives a higher amount of VAT per capita than in departments with lower rates. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] National solidarity therefore plays a two-way role and also benefits rural areas: honestly, I do not see any major flaw in the scheme drawn up in 2020. However, I agree with you on the absolute need for a comprehensive reflection on local taxation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u79	I call the appropriations of the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, listed in state B. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1278, which is very much expected in Marseilles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u80	It aims to include $119,254 million in commitment authorities, and $6 million in payment appropriations, in support of the renovation of schools in this city.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u81	Mr Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u82	This amendment, which was indeed highly expected, was not considered by the committee; In his personal capacity, Jean-René Cazeneuve and I are issuing a favourable opinion. However, I would like to make two points. On the one hand, it is important that we closely monitor the investments related to this plan. When we worked on the new agglomeration union (SAN) and on the agglomeration community, we found a lot of tax deficits; I would therefore like, I repeat, to see real monitoring of revenue and expenditure, especially since it is a priori a company that will benefit from the funds in question. This does not prevent our opinion, once again, being unreservedly favourable in view of the stakes for the city. On the other hand, the DGF and the funds received from the FPIC that Marseille and its agglomeration receive are on the rise: this will allow them to supplement this scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u83	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u84	[[Approvals on several benches of the LaREM Group]] The Dem Group will, of course, vote for this amendment, but I am embarrassed by the principle: it is still the bonus for those who do not do their jobs! For years, the city of Marseille has neglected to maintain its heritage,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur, also applauds]] ... so that his schools are in a catastrophic state, and our answer is to give him money to remedy it. I hope she does! I would like to recall one fact: when I was president of the Agence nationale pour la rénovation urbaine (ANRU), the only commune in France to which we almost took over the sum – 180 million euros – which we had allocated to it, was Marseille! After visiting the Félix-Pyat neighbourhood, whose school was in an indescribable state, as I said to my services: "I hope we will renovate it, this one! I was told that 20 million had been earmarked for this purpose and that the city had returned them, stating that it did not want to do this work. Of course, one can always think that things will go better with the new municipality; However, our intervention to replace a municipality unable to manage its housing stock should not give ideas to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u87	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u88	I understand the point made by our colleague, but we cannot allow the inhabitants to pay the price of the miseries of their former elected officials. I will vote for this amendment; However, I would like some clarification. On 2 September, the President of the Republic announced a plan for Marseille; 174 schools are to be renovated in nine years for 1.2 billion, or an average of 6.9 million schools per school. The aim of the amendment is to commit about 250 million, i.e. 1 billion less than the planned total. Where is the missing amount, and on the other hand how is the amount committed distributed – how much for the operation of the society that will be created, how many schools involved, for what amounts?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u89	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u90	Marseille has very important needs and there are reasons for this, François Pupponi said a few moments ago. Among the causes of this situation are the municipal policies which have been carried out in recent years and which have led to this state of deterioration, including schools. Schools have clearly not been given priority, hence this deeply unacceptable situation which needs to be addressed. That being said, it has not escaped anyone that the municipality has changed since the election of the Spring of Marseille, a left-wing coalition that decided to tackle this problem and to pursue a policy that deserves to be accompanied by the state. This is for local responsibility, which exists and deserves to be reported. But Marseille has also suffered for years, and not only for its schools, from a lack of support from the State. Already in the 1990s, Guy Hermier, one of our predecessors in this Chamber, called on the State to help the second city of France; This major metropolis has since accumulated delays in development, particularly in the field of railway infrastructure. The state must play its full role alongside the city of Marseille and the Marseille metropolis. With regard to the school plan, the announcement by the President of the Republic betrayed his desire to impose a new model, where school principals would recruit their teams, for example. I hope, Madam Minister, that the benefits of the allocations provided for in this plan are not subject to the acceptance of such provisions. This type of blackmail is not appropriate and I hope that these funds will be allocated to schools in need. Finally, after Christine Pires Beaune at the moment, I would add that we need visibility in the budget translation of the announcements made by the President of the Republic. What will be the overall scope of this plan and how these appropriations will be allocated to the various budgetary programmes and over time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u91	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u92	The state will play firefighters in Marseilles to try to solve a considerable problem: of which act – the question of the origin of this problem and the responsibilities should be asked. But there is an inequality of treatment: there are other territories that also face major problems whose origin is not theirs. You see very well what I am referring to: I am naturally thinking of the 86 million borne by the community of Corsica, without us being the least responsible for this situation. It would be legitimate for us to receive the same attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u93	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u94	We will support this amendment, if only because the situation of the schools in Marseilles and the city in general, which is very well described by my colleague Pierre Dharréville, requires it. There are local but also national responsibilities in this funding gap that has been going on for years. Mr Castellani has just mentioned the need for republican equality: what we do for Marseilles, and which is undoubtedly necessary, is just as much for the Seine-Saint-Denis, I can testify, as well as for many other departments of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u95	That's right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u96	A major school renovation plan would be more than necessary: one cannot make decisions on a case-by-case basis, depending on the steps of candidate Macron's campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u97	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u98	This is indeed an emergency plan for schools, based on what had been done following the serious events on the Rue d'Aubagne, with the creation of a local public planning company of national interest (SPLAIN). I understand what has been said by Mr Pupponi and others, but these schools are in such a state of disrepair that the state has decided to intervene before other tragedies occur – we would be accused of having done nothing. 174 schools were involved, and the amount of work was 1.2 billion. SPLAIN is in the process of being set up. These appropriations will of course be the subject of multiannual programming and the rest of the funding will be very logically provided by the city of Marseille. Mr Dharréville, we will also intervene to support mobility in the metropolis of Marseille and to ensure that the northern districts are finally connected to the rest of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u99	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1659.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u100	The aim is to compensate for the impact of the fall in production taxes on management costs levied by the regions, amounting to EUR 107 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u102	This counterpart had been negotiated with the regions. The committee was unable to examine this amendment, but I will issue a favourable opinion on my behalf and on that of Jean-René Cazeneuve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u103	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u104	This amendment is obviously necessary from the moment you cut production taxes. I simply hope that this too will not be the problem that I raised earlier with regard to the abolition of the housing tax, which is insufficiently compensated today. Above all, I recall the constant opposition of the La France group to the reduction of these production taxes, of which there is no evidence that it benefits investment and employment, on the contrary. This is in fact a loss of additional revenue for the State, without any consideration being sought from those who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u105	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u106	The Association Régions de France regretted that the equalization which had been proposed unanimously by the regions had not been endorsed by the Government. I cannot, of course, vote in favour of the effort you are making with this amendment, but I would have liked more consultation with the ARF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u107	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u108	I would not want us to move too fast on this issue. We still have to remember how much the state has supported the regions, before, during and after the crisis. We cannot sweep this amendment away by saying that it is the least. It is always the same scenario: every state support to the communities, particularly the regions, is systematically challenged by the association Régions de France; Then the Government made a step forward, which was once again challenged. I therefore hope that this additional compensation, which is necessary, will allow you to normalise relations with the ARF and that the ARF will recognise what the State really is doing with regard to compensation to local and regional authorities in particular. This is important for the trust contract that must link the state to the communities. We cannot guarantee that we are all in the same boat, whether it is about reviving the economy after the crisis or developing transport, and after playing the same game of dupes forever, letting it grow that the communities, the regions in particular, would be abandoned. That is totally wrong, and this amendment, among many others, confirms this. This will not be the last arbitration, Mr Molac: other proposals on equalization will correct a number of inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u109	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u110	I was quite surprised to hear you say earlier that you were there for the regions, Mr Molac: we are here to defend the general interest and not that of a particular structure, even if it was elected. That is an important clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u111	That's not exactly what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u112	We made a commitment to local and regional authorities to compensate the euro for any changes in taxation. This amendment proves once again, despite the denials of each other, that we are doing exactly what we have committed ourselves to. With regard in particular to the agreement reached between the regions and the Government on the ACVEN – we will discuss this again on equalization – the State has kept its commitments in full and I am not sure that the reciprocal is true. By replacing VAT revenues with the ACVAE, the State allowed the regions to guard against a decline in resources that could have been abyssal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u113	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u114	I would remind you that at the time this agreement was reached, we were talking about a 20% drop in ACVEN revenues, or 2 billion less each year for the regions. The State had therefore committed itself to compensation to the euro by means of a dynamic resource. From this point of view, the regions have benefited from the most important compensation system in the face of this crisis. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this regard, and since you are inviting me to talk about it, it is not entirely right to say that the DGF is stable, Minister. As I said 250 times, DGF's share of the regions has been replaced by VAT revenue. These increases each year, the DGF also increases each year, especially for the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u115	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor to support Amendment No. 1658.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u116	The Minister recalled the conditions for the evolution of the staffing for the protection of biodiversity, which should also take the name of "supporting the municipalities for the protection of biodiversity and the enhancement of rural amenities" so that its name corresponds to the reality of what it has become. [[Mr. Daniel Labaronne applauds]] By this amendment, we propose that you double the amount originally planned, half of the additional appropriations coming from a budget redeployment. This will allow us, as mentioned earlier, both to improve the conditions for the first two fractions, those for the presence of Natura 2000 areas and also national park cores, and to add the criterion of the presence of regional natural parks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u117	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u119	Favourable opinion, in the continuity of the work carried out by the Secretary of State in his former role as rapporteur-general. We had already said last year that we are in favour of the evolution of this biodiversity protection endowment that will develop in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u120	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u121	[[Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, applauded]] This amendment gives me the opportunity to thank Joël Giraud for his long-standing work, with self-sacrifice and perseverance, in favour of the creation of this biodiversity endowment. I still regret the modesty of the sum. Of course, the allocation is going from 10 million to 20 million, but at the same time its scope is widening as it now integrates the regional nature parks, which is a very good thing, but encourages us to show modesty: we can do much better, especially since part of this additional funding comes from redeployment within the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u122	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u123	We will vote in favour of this amendment, even if we can indeed judge the amount insufficient. The aim is to accompany municipalities facing charges arising from their membership in a protected area under the Natura 2000 scheme or from the presence in their territory of national parks or marine parks. I fear that because of the vagueness of this new perimeter, the funds will not be less directed towards the communes whose territory has a national park. Which municipalities will benefit from it from now on? Will those who have benefited so far retain their funding? In addition, is this not likely to be called into question by the vote on the 3DS law that we are announced for the very end of this mandate and which must completely upset the state's relationship with the communities? I would also point out that operators responsible for the management of national parks and Natura 2000 areas lose full-time equivalents every year – this is the case again this year, in particular at the Agence française de la biodiversité or at the Agence de la transition écologique (ADEME). Why vote for additional appropriations if, moreover, the ministry and operators whose mission is to manage national parks and Natura 2000 areas are constantly weakened?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u124	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u125	I also welcome the very important work of the Secretary of State on biodiversity allocation. I would like to point out that the question of rural amenities has been raised by the Rural Agenda: a great deal of work has been done to define its contours and value them. I therefore welcome the doubling of staffing, which is, in the end, a fair recognition of the role that rural areas play in improving water, air and life quality in general. In my view, this is a very interesting prospect that should be deepened in the years to come, with greater budgetary allocations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u126	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1259.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u127	This recurring amendment increases the appropriations under programme 119 in order to adjust the right to financial compensation paid to certain local and regional authorities through the general allocation of decentralization (DGD).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u129	The annual performance project (PAP) provided for 317 million; This amount is increased to just over 600 million. This is a classic adjustment in each FLP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u130	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 1075.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u131	It aims to provide support to local and regional authorities in the wake of the Government's increase in low salaries for the civil service. As some communities lack the means to implement it, this amendment simply proposes to abound the budget allocated to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u133	We have already considered this amendment under other circumstances. On the one hand, it does not seem to me the right vector and, on the other hand, it is not up to us to deal with the index values of each official in the communities. Beyond that, the impact is significant and efforts will have to be made by communities to change the index system of categories C, a development that is necessary in view of their salaries: they should not need to receive the activity premium to live. This amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but the rapporteurs, in their personal capacity, express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u135	The Government also expresses an unfavorable opinion, not without recalling that Amélie de Montchalin, Minister of Transformation and Public Service, has been consulting on this issue with territorial employers for more than a year and that the government decision means, for some people, that they are finally paid to the SMIC. Finally, I recall a simple principle which stems from the autonomy of local and regional authorities: they are the ones who remunerate their civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u136	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u137	I will not vote for this amendment, but it addresses a real problem: the Government decides to increase the point of index of its officials – that is its right – but at the same time embarks the territorial civil service. In a way, the Government decides and the communities pay. Some poor communes employ many category C agents and cannot afford to take on this increase. It happened when I was mayor to find myself, at the end of the year, having to find 600,000 or 700,000 euros. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] We all agree on the principle of increasing low wages, but how can a community come out at the end of the year 700000 euros that it does not have? Is it normal for the Government or Parliament to decide on exemptions from local taxation or increases in expenditure without consultation with the local authorities? Let the State decide for itself and let the communities decide for them! Management autonomy must function in both directions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u138	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u139	I will not support Paul Molac's amendment, to my great regret: on the one hand we cannot ask for the autonomy of the communities and, on the other, we cannot ask for the support of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u140	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u141	On the other hand, category C staff are highly represented in the territorial public service and the impact of the increases will be strong on the budgets of the communities. We should not then ask the communities, through pacts, for Cahors' contracts or what I know, to make additional efforts and to limit the increase in their operating expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u142	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u143	We need to be consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u144	It's consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u145	We must also ensure that we retain the principle of a general index point valid for the three public functions. Let us be careful not to open a door that could prove dangerous for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u147	I will add a few things to the minister's remarks. First, it is necessary to ensure unity within the three public offices, even if they are different and include many statutes and various categories. Common lines should be maintained between the State, the hospital civil service and the local and regional authorities – in particular between the State and the latter. Secondly, as the Minister recalled, Amélie de Montchalin is working on these issues, together with Philippe Laurent, President of the Superior Council of the Territorial Public Service (CSFPT): let them continue their reflection. Thirdly, autonomy applies to everyone and in all directions: autonomy of management and financial and fiscal autonomy, which I heard strongly defended earlier. Finally, the fourth element is that communities are aware of the need to pay their Class C officers properly. As you said, Mr. Pupponi, this is an important subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u148	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u149	... because local and regional authorities have a lot of staff in this category. This may be an additional burden, but it is essential for the work to be done properly and for the human resource to be developed within communities. Let us not forget this human dimension: it is not just about finance. It is also important that these people receive adequate and more attractive wages than they currently are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u150	I agree with that. There's no problem with that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u151	In this case, the state is working with communities to identify the best solutions: some have been found with respect to elements attached to communities – I will not go into the details of the provisions voted under the Social Security Financing Bill. On the other hand, with regard to the status of civil servants, we must keep our framework. That is why I am asking to withdraw your amendment, which has had the merit of opening the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u152	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 1030.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u153	It aims to increase the appropriations allocated to support the investment of the departments (DSID) by EUR 18.4 million, in order to reverse the decrease foreseen in this PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u155	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. We have already mentioned this in the Finance Committee. You would like to add EUR 18.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations to offset the decrease in DSID appropriations. I would simply point out that the EAs are identical to those of last year, and I would point out, as in committee, that the DSID will be redistributed by region, together with the departmental amounts, so that there is no divergence from last year: the change in the DSID will thus have no financial impact, particularly for Corsica and Brittany. There is therefore no major issue and we are very much in favour of the reform of the DSID which clarifies and simplifies its operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u157	Request for withdrawal or unfavourable opinion, for the same reasons as those clearly expressed by the Special Rapporteur. I would add that an abundance of DSID commitment authorities would, given that the amount of EAs is stable, increase the amount from 2021 and not stabilize it. It would be totally counter-intuitive and counter-productive. Finally, I believe that the reform of the DSID allocation method is necessary. It leads to the replacement of a share of the allocation which was paid directly into the investment budget of the departments and whose leverage effect was very limited, since the average allocation was barely more than 1 euro per capita.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u158	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u159	The first signatory to this amendment is Bertrand Pancher, and I cannot withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u160	I would point out, for the sake of clarification of the debate, that the Rules of Procedure allow you, when defending an amendment, to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u161	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1182.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u162	The Corsican community was ordered to pay a fine of more than EUR 86 million to Corsica Ferries, following irregular State aid allocations in respect of territorial continuity. This was imposed by the state, despite its perverse effect on Corsica and despite the protests that we, the territorial majority, raised against this system. Moreover, the State had to exercise, year after year, a management control over the powers of this envelope dedicated to territorial continuity, a responsibility which it clearly misexercised since in the end the community of Corsica is condemned. I would add that the amount charged to him corresponds to 40% of the available budgetary appropriations: it is a disaster! The aim of this amendment is therefore to provide temporary and exceptional support to the community of Corsica in order to be able to cope with the payment of the EUR 86.3 million fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u164	The committee did not consider this amendment, which was tabled following a decision by the Council of State. I have consulted the accounts of the Corsican community and the opinion of the Regional Economic, Social and Environmental Council (CESER): I have found that the Corsican community has provided €20 million, which means that it probably expected this decision. She was right to anticipate this possibility. We need to pay particular attention to this: this could be complicated, indeed, to finance EUR 86 million over a year, especially since the community of Corsica is experiencing revenue problems – they have fallen by 4% in 2020. All of this will have to be analyzed by the end of 2022, when the community is likely to have paid part of the fine. Secondly, you said earlier, Mr Castellani, that the city of Marseille should not be helped exceptionally or that this aid should be generalised. This would mean that whenever we were attacked in court as part of a public service delegation (PSD) we would be obliged to generalize aid. We need to be careful about what we're talking about. On the other hand, I understand that this situation is causing financial difficulties in terms of annual cash flow. I am making a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavourable opinion on the substance because I do not have the technical elements – the minister will no doubt be able to provide you with further answers – while noting the budgetary problem for the year 2022 in view of the amount provided by the community of Corsica for the payment of the fine imposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u166	The Government pays particular attention to the consequences of the judgment handed down by the Council of State on 29 September concerning the community of Corsica, which must pay Corsica Ferries a very large sum, equivalent to 15 per cent of its budget, i.e. EUR 86 million. During the review of the first part of the FLP, the Associate Minister for Public Accounts expressed his willingness to consider that the community could spread the burden over five years; It would require an operation by his services and mine. This option would be combined with a resumption of the community's provision for litigation risk – the risk has been identified for several years. You know these two proposals, Mr Castellani; For my part, I was aware of the request that you have just reiterated. I am sensitive to the fact that your amendment does not relay the speech – erroneous, in my view – invoking a responsibility of the State in this matter. I confirm that all these options are under consideration, and that we are working on this. As our work has not yet been completed, I ask you to withdraw from your amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. We'll talk about it again, and we'll deal with it quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u167	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u168	Michel Castellani did indeed invoke the responsibility of the State, Madam Minister. It is a fact: the responsibility of the State is engaged. It is sufficient to read the parliamentary investigation report produced by our Assembly in 2013, to note that the State has a responsibility in the privatisation of the SNCM, the Société nationale maritime Corse-Méditerranée, and in the financial gabegie that was its resale to Butler Capital Partners – remember that the latter has depopulated the SNCM by transferring all the assets, before reselling its shares to the State, which asked Veolia in disaster to take over the SNCM. The parliamentary report – which your colleagues have certainly read carefully, Madam Minister – states that Veolia has agreed to take over SNCM only on the condition that the community of Corsica grants it the delegation of public service (DSP). It was also at the request of the State that the community of Corsica at the time had to acquire a boat. All this is explained black and white in the parliamentary investigation report – I doubt that the Government is questioning it. Clearly, the responsibility of the State is therefore engaged. When responsibility is shared, the Corsican community legitimately asks that a solution be found with the State. The dialogue must continue to that end. It would not be fair, correct, or respectful that the State, while recognizing its share of responsibility, imposes on the community of Corsica to pay the entire sum. I repeat: the State has a responsibility in this area, as demonstrated by a parliamentary investigation report. We need to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u169	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u170	The Government's arguments are not convincing. I have just voted for the amendment to finance the renovation of schools in Marseilles, because it seems to me normal to help this city. We intend to receive similar treatment in the SNCM file, knowing that we are not responsible for the situation – Mr Pupponi has explained it well. The system that was invented for Corsica was disastrous: it turned it into a passive zone of consumption, and brought competition to bear on its local productions – we have constantly denounced it. In addition, the state has imposed a management regime on the community, even forcing it to buy a boat. We have to make a move, Madam Minister. You can't just allow the Corsican community to spread out the payment: its budget would be bound by between 15 and 20 million euros each year – which would be a disaster throughout the entire legislature. We expect the state to act more in line with Corsica's interests and, above all, more in line with justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u171	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u172	I heard what you said, Mr. Pupponi and Mr. Castellani. I confirm that all options are under consideration. I have simply – and kindly – asked you to withdraw the amendment, because we will be discussing this matter soon again, which we are going to deal with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u173	All right. It was the five-year spread of the entire sum that was a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u174	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1186.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u175	Presented by Sylvia Pinel, it aims to include a new budget line of EUR 50 million in order to provide budgetary support to the municipalities affected by the postponement of the INSEE census survey scheduled for 2021 in 2022. This decision to postpone is understandable in view of the health context, but it poses a financial problem for several municipalities: they invested in urban facilities and planned financing, legitimately tabling on an upgrade of the DGF in 2021, due to the population increase. Deferral is an unpredictable event. For example, the municipality of Pompignan in Tarn-et-Garonne has seen its population increase by 20% in recent years. The postponement of the INSEE survey is a problem, as the DGF it benefits is based on population figures dating back to 2019 and clearly inadequate to the realities of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u177	This amendment surprised me greatly – it is a pity that Mrs Pinel is not here to defend it. Indeed, the INSEE census is recurrent and rotating; A mathematical calculation is made even in case of late census, as in 2021. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. The mathematical calculation will take place – as a reminder, it follows two different modalities, depending on whether the population of the communes is less than or more than 10000 inhabitants. Therefore, there is no reason for communities to face particular challenges – but I will remain attentive to them. Continuity is normally ensured, as the census result evolves over the years, and the calculation covers the last five years. I do not see why communities would suffer a loss when their census was not updated in 2021. I repeat, there is continuity. Since 2014, the census has been rotating and evolving, making it possible to make a regular adjustment and avoiding problems related to the absence of a final census.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u179	Although the covid has led to carry-overs of surveys, other elements make it possible to compile demographic statistics in a very precise and authenticated way. The deadline initially set at the end of the year will be met; So there will be no problem. Moreover, this credit amendment is not admissible, as it would lead to the challenge of authenticated and certified eligibility criteria. I ask that it be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u180	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u181	As I am not the first signatory of the amendment, I maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u182	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendments Nos 1074, 1233 and 1135, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u183	You have indicated, Madam Minister, that the DSIL is under reform, and rightly so. The DPV (the city's political authority) is a good endowment; It was reformed in 2019, but it would be appropriate to further improve the powers of the prefects. These three appeal amendments are intended to initiate a reflection on the improvement of the VPD, an excellent staffing that benefits the neighbourhoods that deserve it, but that could be refined at the margin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u185	Mr. Pupponi regularly tabled these amendments. We are consolidating the VPD, and we recognize that certain developments could be made to it in the future, in conjunction with the DSIL and the DETR. The criteria will have to be adjusted for each other. As I have already suggested, I would ask you to withdraw your amendments this year; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u187	I understand that these were appeals amendments. The DPV is a very important allocation that tripled between 2012 and 2017, before remaining at the current level of 150 million euros – 750 million euros throughout the quinquennium. I know your concern for city policy, Mr Pupponi, but I would ask you to withdraw your amendments; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u188	Mr Paul Molac has the floor to support Amendment No. 1195.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u189	It aims to renew the exceptional assistance granted by the State to local and regional authorities for the purchase of masks. The Government intends to extend the regime of exit from the state of emergency, which means that the health pass, the barrier gestures and the wearing of the mask could be maintained until 31 July 2022. The exceptional assistance provided by the State to communities to purchase masks must also be extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u191	Mr Coquerel – who has been absent from the Chamber – tabled an almost identical amendment: my opinion is unfavourable on both. The exceptional aid for the purchase of masks was voted last year in the framework of an amending finance law. We no longer have a state of health emergency regime, but a state of emergency and health vigilance regime. We are therefore in a phase of good conduct of the French state of health. At the same time, communities are no longer faced with the urgent need to finance masks; Some have even made provision for these expenses, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u192	The floor is for Mr Eric Coquerel, who is returning just in time in the Chamber to support Amendment No 1283!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u193	[[Smile]] You'll enjoy this timing, Mr. President! This amendment is a continuation of my introductory statement. The state is no longer supporting local authorities for the financing of masks. However, the epidemic has resumed in some European countries. Lowering the guard on the issue of masks – as well as on the issue of screening tests, now paying – seems to me dangerous and could prove counterproductive. Communities have done much to supply French people with masks; They have even done more than the state. It is really not appropriate to remove the free masks, or at least to put an end to the support of local and regional authorities for their funding. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u195	I spoke on this amendment when I presented the committee's opinion on Mr Molac's Amendment No 1195, but you were not present in the Chamber, Mr Coquerel. My opinion is unfavourable for several reasons. The first is that we are able, if necessary, to provide for an exceptional allocation for local and regional authorities in the amending finance bill (PLFR) to help them finance the purchase of masks. That's how we did it last year. The second reason is that we are gradually emerging from the state of health emergency, in view of the positive development of the epidemic situation, and that we are now in a logic of vigilance. The third reason is that some communities have included a specific provision in their budgets for the purchase of masks. They have therefore incorporated this topic into their current operating expenses. I would add that free masks must now be the responsibility of local policy, in accordance with the principle, which we have recalled, of the financial autonomy of the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u197	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u198	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u199	I heard your answer, Mr. Special Rapporteur. I will make a number of arguments. You say that we are capable of dealing with emergencies, but remember how the Government responded when the epidemic broke out and saw the lack of masks. I will thank you for the names of all the ministers – including the Minister of Solidarity and Health himself – who explained to us to hide this shortage that the mask was not necessary! In other words, prevention is better than cure. We are sure of nothing about the evolution of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u200	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u201	For that reason, the Government had recently submitted to Parliament the bill on various health-care provisions, which extended the possibility of the use of the health pass until next July. For my part, I judge this text to be liberticide. Given the uncertainties that remain, the Government is wrong to withdraw its support to local authorities for the financing of masks, especially since the wearing of the mask is currently necessary in many places – the deputies of the La France insoumée group have worn it since the beginning of the epidemic. When French people are forced to wear a mask in public places, masks must be free of charge. Let us not forget, moreover, that they represent an important budget for families, especially large families. I can only regret, for all these reasons, that the Government has decided to lower the guard in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u202	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u203	This amendment, which I have already tabled last year, aims to provide the exceptional grants for the repair of damage caused by natural disasters with an envelope of 80 million euros in commitment authorisations and 88.52 million in payment appropriations, by increasing by 40 million CPs and 40 million EAs of action 01 of programme 122 Specific assistance and administration. Climate events in recent years have shown that natural disasters become recurrent and cause considerable damage in the municipalities. They therefore need to be promptly supported by the State in their reparations. Last year, following storm Alex, we were forced to urgently open a reconstruction fund in PLFR 1. Amendment No 304 seeks to ensure that a sufficient budget is set up to support the municipalities financially in the event of new claims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u205	Like last year, I invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Lemoine, and for several reasons. First of all, the 40 million adopted last year are renewed, be it commitment authorisations or payment appropriations. Secondly, it seems to me preferable, rather than creating a global envelope, to release specific funds for each event. That is what we did last year for the weather in the Alpes-Maritimes. Given the additional €60 million this year for the programme, it seems to me more appropriate to respond on a case-by-case basis to climate events, thereby calibrating the financial contribution to the specific needs identified by local authorities, insurers and the State. It seems to me that this method is better than the one you are proposing, but your amendment has the merit, every year, of reminding us of the need to pay attention to this issue, which we are following closely with the Directorate-General for Local Authorities (DGCL). With the exception of exceptional funds, the credits will be extended in the same way in the PLF for 2022 and will support communities facing conventional climate events, supported by the DSEC, providing solidarity to communities affected by climatic or geological events. The method we have used for the weather that has affected the Alpes-Maritimes, but also Saint-Martin – we have adopted an exceptional allocation of 50 million for this community – is, in my opinion, the best: it is targeted, effective and benefits the territories directly, according to the needs expressed by the communities, insurers and the population – since the objective is, I would remind you, to allow the population to return to normal life after the natural disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u207	I agree with the Special Rapporteur that the State has demonstrated its ability to respond to natural disasters. However, I understand the generous approach that underlies your amendment, Mrs Lemoine. However, we have the means to adapt quickly and we showed it when storm Alex hit the valleys of Vesubia, Roya and Tinea. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the memory of Jean-Claude Guibal, Mayor of Menton and President of the agglomeration community of the French Riviera, who has just left us. Last week, we were still working together on repairs in the Roya Valley.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u208	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u209	First question: Where do communities need to go when they want to benefit from a reconstruction fund? Do they have to go through the prefect for that? I ask you this question because, honestly, I did not know how to answer it when it was asked to me recently. Second question: What is the status of appropriations this year? I need to know that in order to take a decision on Mrs Lemoine's amendment. We are approaching the end of the year: it would be useful to know the level of their consumption for 2021 in payment appropriations and commitment authorizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u210	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u211	Let me add, in order to defend the amendment, that it is also intended to take account of the parliamentary timetable of 2022, since Parliament will complete its work at the end of February and resume it at the end of June, which could affect the reactivity of the State in the event of a major natural disaster during this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u212	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u213	Rest assured, Member: the state works even when Parliament does not sit. It is always possible for the Government to mobilize funds. Mrs Pires Beaune, it is always the prefectures that must be asked if need be. As far as the consumption of credits is concerned, there is no need to tell you that they were completely consumed by storm Alex!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u214	You have already spoken, Mrs Pires Beaune, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u215	Mr President, although there are few of us, let us allow a debate to take place on the appropriations for the mission Relations with local and regional authorities! This is the first time I've seen it. In the previous legislatures, the House was full when it examined the appropriations for this mission. Is it probably an effect of the non-cumulation of mandates... But I'm closing the parenthesis! You have just said that the money was exhausted, minister, but some local authorities have recently applied to the state for assistance. How are you going to answer that? Will you provide new appropriations in the next PLFR?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u216	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u217	If the minister allows me, I will give you a few details on the amounts consumed and committed, Mrs Pires Beaune. As at 31 August 2021, the Alpes-Maritimes reconstruction fund and the combined DSEC amounted to $123.593 million in commitment authorities and 45 million in payment appropriations. These are the figures we reached in our report, Jean-René Cazeneuve and myself, after consulting with the ministries and the prefectures. As the minister has pointed out, we are reaching the end of the available appropriations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u218	If there's no more money, what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u219	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u220	All requests are still being honoured, MP. None remain in the closets – absolutely none! [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Let me point out, as a wink, that if the benches are sparse today, it may be because the elected representatives are not worried: the budget of the local and regional authorities is good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u221	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 380.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u222	This amendment, tabled on the initiative of my colleague Alexandra Louis, concerns the prostitution of minors. The voluntary sector estimates the number of minors involved in prostitution between 7000 and 10000. This figure, which is difficult to quantify, has been steadily increasing in recent years. In five years, the Ministry's statistical office for internal security has recorded a 70 per cent increase in the number of minors who are victims of pimping. The aim of this amendment is to increase the budget of the departments responsible for social assistance for children (ESA) so that a true accompanying policy can be developed on this very sensitive subject. It is proposed that the appropriations for Action 04 General allocation for the decentralization of the departments (DGD) of the programme 119 Financial assistance to the local authorities and their groups in the amount of EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u224	The ESA has a departmental competence. Financial transfers had been made in the past to enable it to better combat the prostitution of minors. Various reports on the functioning of the ESA have been produced, including that of Ms. Louis to protect minors from sexual crimes and offences and incest. The issue is complex and will certainly not be addressed through additional funding to departments. The Assemblée des départements de France has also committed itself to working with parliamentarians and the ministries concerned in order to ensure a genuine follow-up. In any event, the tax transfer you are proposing does not seem appropriate. Rather, this is a traditional transfer of powers to the departments, which is not covered by the law on the reform of local and regional authorities, known as the RCT Act. For all these reasons, I invite you to withdraw the amendment, Mrs Lemoine. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u225	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u226	The subject you are raising is important, Madam. That was why the Government had decided to make the fight against prostitution of minors a priority. A national plan will soon be announced to combat this scourge affecting our children. Your amendment has the merit of raising a real problem, but the budget support chosen is not adequate. Indeed, this is not the DGD itself, since the amendment does not propose a transfer of powers to the departments. For the same reasons as the Special Rapporteur, I ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u227	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u228	I withdraw the amendment, but I call on the Government to pay particular attention to the fight against prostitution of minors, which is an extremely serious subject of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u229	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u230	This is an appeal amendment, like the one I will defend immediately afterwards, which deals with a very different subject. Amendment No 286 concerns the financing of vaccination centres by the municipalities. I will take the example of the city of Béziers, which I know well. On 9 January 2021, the city set up a large vaccination centre. This proactive policy has enabled a large number of people, in Béziers and throughout the western part of the department, to receive their doses quickly. This policy has had a cost, which we have estimated at 49,000 euros a week. Efforts have certainly been made by the State, since the vaccination centres run by the local authorities have received an allocation of 60 million, delegated to the RSAs in the regional intervention fund, to provide financial support for the most urgent expenses of the centres. A contribution of €50000 was announced for six months for medium-sized vaccination centres. But 50000 euros for six months, against a real cost of 49000 euros per week, that's very little! You can imagine the expenses that had to be incurred by some municipalities. Since then, a competition fund and a new state contribution have been implemented, which is welcome, but we are still far from adequate compensation for the funds committed. I am thinking in particular of expenditure which has absolutely not been taken into account by the State: those relating to the safety of vaccination centres. Remember, at the beginning of vaccination, doses of vaccine were rare and coveted. It was on their own budget that the municipalities had to ensure their safety in the centres. The amendment proposes to grant exceptional aid to municipalities in compensation for the cost they have paid to ensure the health security of their citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u232	We discussed a similar measure last year, but I don't remember if it was on your initiative, Mrs Ménard. In essence, you are right: communities, especially municipalities, have made significant financial efforts to allow immunization of their people. These efforts deserve to be welcomed. You mentioned the two mechanisms that have made it possible to finance – to a small extent, I grant you – the vaccination centres. Your amendment is an appeal amendment, so I would ask you to withdraw it. Personally, I am very close to the communal bloc and I want to say so as the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance on the Community budget: the municipalities have played a vital role, together with the State, in health and safety, in setting up vaccination centres and enabling our country to hold. Your amendment proposes a financial measure on which I cannot vote, but I like to insist: if we leave the health crisis today, it is partly because of them. I do not know if other funds could be mobilised, but I really believe that such a subject was also a matter for the role and competence of the communities, including the municipalities, which are in charge of safety and health. As we all know, it is the full responsibility of the mayors that has been committed to this issue of proximity. I found them very effective and I thank them, while asking for the withdrawal – of course – of your appeal amendment, which is a financial amendment to which I cannot give a favourable opinion. I am not sure, anyway, that seed funds must be requested again in this area, but I think that in order to finance such an expenditure, the appropriations should be found elsewhere, probably at the level of the SRA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u234	The minister has already answered this question last year, recalling the following: it is the funds led by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health (MSS), and not Program 122, that can address your concern. According to the first estimates, the additional costs associated with vaccination – the ones you are aiming for, which must be distinguished from the fixed costs that exist anyway – have already been covered by the MSS budget to the tune of 34 million euros, intended for 400 beneficiaries. The total census of SRA support to communities is ongoing, but this is under MSS rather than Program 122. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u235	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u236	I would like to thank you very briefly for these words, Mr. Special Rapporteur. Without the municipalities, we probably wouldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u237	And without the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u238	Nevertheless, I wanted to stress the essential role of some municipalities in this area, and in particular that of the medium-sized cities, which have really played the game without asking for any outside participation. I take the example of Béziers again, since it is the one I know: we have ensured the operation of the vaccination centre for the entire West-Hérault – it was indeed the largest centre in the department – therefore for all the surrounding communes, without ever asking their mayors to participate, while we were obviously vaccinating their inhabitants. As a matter of principle, I will not withdraw my amendment because I think it is useful for us to vote on this subject, even if I have little illusions about the outcome of the vote, but I thank you again for recognizing the essential role of the municipalities in the proper functioning of this health policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u239	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 287.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u240	This is again an appeal amendment. This time it concerns communes and groups of communes which face the decline of the coastal line and are therefore constantly threatened by the rise of the waters. I take the example of my department again: in the Hérault, the situation is particularly critical since the sea can reach up to 5 meters per year. The Climate and Resilience Act, promulgated on 22 August, contains numerous provisions aimed at adapting the territories to the effects of climate change, in particular the coastal municipalities threatened by the decline of the coast line. During the Joint Joint Committee on 12 July, compromises were reached on this subject, in particular in order to decide on a division of responsibilities between the State and the communities. However, an elected senator from Seine-Maritime warned that this division should be extended as part of the budget review. The associations of local elected representatives had regretted that the State was depriving itself of its responsibility without giving the communities the technical and financial means to prepare for the future. As a result of the "climate and resilience" law, the municipalities affected by the decline in the coast line must be identified in a list set by decree, which will have to be revised every nine years with the help of two important mechanisms: the compulsory consultation of the municipalities concerned and the possibility for the voluntary municipalities to integrate the list. My amendment is simple: it seeks to ensure that the Government does not dump on the communities of this mission, which, as you know, will become more and more sensitive over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u242	Thank you, Mrs Ménard, for ringing the alarm again – it's even more than an alert. All those who have some expertise on urban planning and land issues are very familiar with the problem. I believe that you yourself have answered your question: the state will not give up on this subject. We all agree with the sharing between the state and the communities – urbanization was first taken over by the state, before the communities took over. Then the climate concerns everyone; It is an element to be taken into account. Of course, we are not going to include the funds that you are proposing, but I think that important discussions need to take place between the communities, including those responsible for planning and planning documents, and the state, in order to find the best possible solutions for financial sharing, impact and compensation – even if it is not the most appropriate term – regarding the receding of the coast line. I remember that a few months or years ago, we worked on the Signal, a building in Gironde, and that agreements had been reached between the communities and the owners. This is an example that will have to be followed in the future. I do not ask you to withdraw the amendment, since you will not do so; I therefore express an unfavorable opinion and let the minister complete my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u243	On all the appropriations of the Mission Relations with local and regional authorities, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 287?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u244	The Government is obviously very sensitive to the problem of the coast trait, starting with the Ministry of the Ecological Transition – as you recalled, a fairly long debate took place on this subject during the review of the law on combating climate change; But of course, my ministry is also concerned. I would like to say to Mrs Ménard that I understand her concern. This week I visited the English Channel, in Coutances, to sign an ecological recovery and transition contract (CRTE) with the community of communes Coutances mer et bocage. The main part of the file is based precisely on the question of the coast line; It commits a strong involvement of the State – funds are already earmarked for it in the budget of the Ministry of the Ecological Transition – but also, of course, of the local authorities. They are also developing their own projects, beyond preventing erosion of the coast line. We need to move forward on this issue, which will require the deployment of complementary tools – I am absolutely convinced – but this will obviously be done in partnership between the state and local and regional authorities, as always.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u245	I put to the vote the appropriations of the Mission Relations with local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u246	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 31 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u247	I now call Article 45, attached to the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1143, which deletes Rule 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u248	It highlights the problem posed by the reform of the arrangements for the allocation of departmental investment support (DSID). As is well known, the LT group defends the fiscal autonomy of the communities and not their infusion by the state through the granting of subsidies. At the time of the creation of the DSID in 2018, its architecture was as follows: 77% of the allocation was allocated to projects under the prefect's umbrella, and 23% were distributed according to the fiscal potential of the department, unrelated to investments. The amendment is intended to delete Article 45 in order to remedy this imbalance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u250	I have already said this: we are in favour of the development of DSID. It is common to all investment allocations for which calls for projects meet a general criteria. I am against your amendment in principle, as we were in committee. I add that no one will lose and everyone will win; The reform will allow us to work on projects as such, rather than relying on an allocation that, as in the past, would be fed directly, based on criteria established on the basis of operating rather than investment expenditure. Our logic is that we want to deal with investment endowments based on rather operational criteria. We are therefore very much in favour of the article. Unfavorable opinion, as in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u252	In fact, you would like the DSID reform to be removed. For my part, I continue to think, like the Special Rapporteur, that she was absolutely indispensable. Furthermore – as I recall – it does not affect the staffing award criteria, which remain unchanged. Indeed, the Government was very committed to taking into account the disparities in resources between the Territories; the fiscal potential will therefore continue to be taken into account in allocating credits from the equalisation share, and only the terms of use of that share will be changed. To be honest, therefore, I believe that the merger of the DSID that we want to conduct is part of a logic of harmonization and simplification of staffing management, as has already been done in the past, for example with respect to the DGE – overall equipment allocation. His reform had raised some questions at the time; the day after it was implemented, it was no longer a problem. We follow the same logic rigorously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u253	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u254	Beyond the explanations that have just been given, whether we like it or not, nolens volens, we are again taking a small step in favour of recentralization, to the detriment of the free management of their revenues by the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u255	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1086.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u256	It concerns the reform of the DSID that you are undertaking and to which, as I say at the outset, I am absolutely not unfavourable. However, I remain vigilant and, above all, I would like to know its implications for equalization, hence the request for a report on the subject. The deadline is quite long since it must be produced before September 2022 – it leaves time to do so. Such a report may allow us to correct the reform, if necessary, in the framework of the PLF for 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u258	We discussed it in committee and gave an unfavorable opinion. I pointed out that the deadlines were short enough to allow for, inter alia, an assessment of the financial part of the reform, in particular the way in which new funding following calls for projects would be distributed, in order to verify that this distribution was proceeding with equalization. Secondly, as part of one of the upcoming Spring Evaluations, the future Special Rapporteur of the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities could put this topic on the agenda of the Public Policy Evaluation Committee under the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. Unfavorable opinion, even if, on a personal basis, I would obviously have preferred you to withdraw the amendment. That is my position and that of the committee, which was voted on last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u260	Same advice, Member of Parliament. The use of DSID is reviewed annually by our department. The DSID 2022 review will assess the impact of the new reform; we formally commit ourselves to it. The document in question will necessarily include the assessment you are calling for. Your amendment is therefore indeed satisfactory and I would ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u261	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor in support of Amendment No. 1271 on the additional Rule after Rule 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u262	We have tabled several amendments, Mr Jolivet and I, to draw the consequences of a parliamentary mission which we are carrying out on the DSIL, and of another which we have completed, on the DETR. The aim is to find ways to reduce the number of communities eligible for DETR. Due to the enlargement of the EPCI, the population eligible for the DETR increased by 6 million between 2014 and 2021. If we really had 6 million new rural inhabitants in our territories in five years, we would have noticed that! We propose to go back to the eligibility threshold, which had been raised from 50,000 to 75,000 inhabitants. I think we've been aiming a little too high. If two rural EPCIs get married, the population of the new EPCI is much larger, but they are not urban territories, so the new EPCI must retain the possibility of moving to DETR. However, the population threshold is too high, we propose to lower it from 75,000 to 65,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u264	We are dealing with a series of amendments on investment allocations, including DETR and DSIL, which address three aspects: eligibility, which Mrs Pires Beaune has just mentioned; process and transparency; the award commission, which is discussed each year. We will probably accept some amendments, after consultation, because some proposals are very interesting, particularly with regard to transparency and the process. In terms of eligibility, not everything is perfect. I agree with Mrs Pires Beaune on density, and I believe that the next eligibility criterion for DETR will be based solely on this aspect. But I propose to preserve the stability that we have been maintaining for three years. It is better not to change the list of eligible communities, even if I understand, as your report indicates and as I said last year, that density is surely the criterion that will have to be applied for the allocation of investment allocations. Unfavorable opinion. I shall be briefer for the following amendments, even if they do not propose the same criteria. I want us to stabilize the DETR, even if the current system is not perfect. In a recovery phase, it is boring to remove endowments as we announce that many endowments are available. Changing the criteria this year, while we may still do so next year in view of the parliamentary reports on the DETR and the DSIL, would be inappropriate, within the current movement to relaunch the investments of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u266	Like the Special Rapporteur, I will give a general opinion on this series of amendments on investment allocations, which will allow me to be briefer afterwards. For the past two years, we have been discussing with the Finance Committee how to calculate and qualify for DETR. This shared reflection was born from a common observation: no real evaluation was conducted on the rules for the calculation of envelopes, which vary without anyone being truly able to say why. A fact-finding mission has been set up to examine the issue from all its angles, and I would like to commend its work, leaving it to its rapporteurs, Mrs Pires Beaune and Mr Jolivet, to present the essential elements. On the basis of the recommendations of this mission, important developments have been decided in the previous finance law: the population of the rural communes alone is taken into account in the part of the DETR envelopes drawn up on the basis of the eligible intercommunalities, and the annual variation of the envelopes is more strictly regulated. In addition, with Jacqueline Gourault, we instructed the prefects to finance only projects with a real rural dimension when the grant is allocated to an intercommunality that includes cities or a new municipality. Whenever we are on the ground or when we are told of a failure to comply with this rule, which has been circulated to elected associations, we intervene to find out exactly what has happened and to verify the reality of things. We have recently done so at the request of one of the co-rapporteurs with regard to the agglomeration of Châteauroux. Overall, therefore, the direction of the DETR is more rural. With regard to the amendments tabled this year, unsurprisingly, the Government will give an unfavorable opinion to those who would have the consequence of excluding communes or intercommunalities from the scope of the DETR; These are Amendments Nos 1270, 1271, 1093, 1092 and 1091. We share the view that the eligibility rules are not perfect and do not always accurately capture whether a given community "merits" to receive the DETR. Should the DETR be granted to a sub-prefecture or a large cantonal capital which the INSEE classifies as urban while it plays a central role in the countryside? This is one of the elements of appreciation, it is not a consensual issue between elected officials or between territories, and it is not the law that will succeed in deciding or substantially altering existing balances. It is the role of the deconcentrated services of the State to make this sorting by judging local needs and priorities. We will also give an unfavorable opinion to the amendments which rigidise the procedures for awarding grants, such as Amendment No 1081 which establishes a DSIL allocation committee. This applies to the DETR, which addresses local issues, and does not apply to the DSIL and the DSID, which correspond to national priorities set by the Government and Parliament. Similarly, opinions against Amendments Nos 1266 and 1294 to submit all the dossiers to the DETR Committee, and directly contrary to the concern about the effectiveness of public action, shared on all these benches. I want you to know that the commissions are looking at 13% of the files, but 60% of the appropriations, which seems to me to be a good balance. It would not be reasonable to make 87 per cent of the DETR grants, the ones with the lowest amounts, dependent on the meeting of commissions of elected officials who would not have the material time to examine them, when we are asked to decide on the assignments more and more early. The same argument applies to Amendment No 1269, which re-establishes a single filing date for applications for grants in prefecture on 1 March. It is not by writing in the law what is the responsibility of the local organization that we will deconcentrate public life. For the same principles, however, we give a favourable opinion to Amendment No 1265, which is in line with efficiency by requiring prefectures to notify 80% of the appropriations by 30 June of the financial year, and by 31 July sets the date for the distribution of the lists to parliamentarians, elected representatives and the public. I also hope that projects divided into several tranches will be examined by the DETR commissions when the total grants exceed the thresholds. By cutting the thresholds, it is possible to escape the rule. I shall therefore issue a favourable opinion on Amendment No 1266. I am not sure that its wording is fully applicable, we prefer to include this rule in the circular, but in any case we will satisfy this request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u267	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u268	I thank you for these advances and for the favourable opinions reserved for some of my amendments, although these are not the most important in my view. I hear the Special Rapporteur and the Secretary of State explain that the eligibility rules are not perfect and that they share our view. I have been tabling amendments on eligibility for the past four years. You're telling me this year that it's not the right one, but last year it was the crisis, and I don't know what other reason was given the previous year. This is never the right time, but, as I am a little stubborn in the common sense of the word, that is, when I really believe in one thing, I keep my neck stiff, I keep Amendment No 1271.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u270	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1091.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u271	It is proposed to change the density criterion – I heard the rapporteur's opening on this point – from 150 to 100 inhabitants per square kilometre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u272	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1092.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u273	The aim is to introduce a new criterion. For municipalities, eligibility for DETR depends on a population threshold as well as a wealth threshold. For CIPEs, the criterion of wealth cannot apply. I propose to add the criterion of fiscal potential to judge the eligibility of EPCIs to the DETR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u274	On the identical amendments Nos 1270 and 1298, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u275	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1263.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u276	It is proposed to restrict eligibility for DETR to rural municipalities within the meaning of the INSEE density grid. Much progress has been made over the past two years on the definition of rural life. There is consensus on a definition. It will make it possible to draw comparisons at European level, which is a good thing. But for the moment, this new definition is very little used. The Secretary of State recalled that she was at stake for one element, up to 25%. Thus, it is not considered to judge the eligibility of municipalities to participate in the DETR. We now have a definition that states that a rural municipality meets the density criterion, but we will look for other criteria when it comes to assigning it the DETR. I have studied the application of this definition based on the density criterion to the electoral district of which I am elected to see if it makes sense. It shows that the new definition corresponds perfectly to the reality of rural life: out of 138 communes in my constituency, eight do not meet the density criterion, and these eight communes are urban.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u277	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1270 and 1298. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1270.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u278	Last year, we tabled an amendment to ensure that municipalities belonging to a metropolis in France are ineligible for DETR. After debate, we withdrew it. Today we propose the same mechanism, adding an important element. Exclude all municipalities belonging to a metropolis may have the effect of excluding rural municipalities. We therefore propose that all municipalities belonging to a metropolis be ineligible for DETR unless they meet the density criterion within the meaning of INSEE. Let us take the example of the Clermont metropolis, the only one in Puy-de-Dôme, which comprises twenty-one communes: this amendment would exclude nineteen communes and keep two, which are actually rural. It would therefore be logical for this House to adopt at least this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u280	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u282	I have no opposition in principle, but a practical opposition. The amendment does not deal fairly with all local situations. It would no longer support a road or network project involving several EPCI municipalities, because some municipalities would be eligible and not others. This is a problem. Imagine its application to sanitation competence, if connections were made only on eligible municipalities: it would no longer make sense. Similarly, what fate would be reserved for projects which must be set up in an ineligible municipality but which would directly benefit the inhabitants of the intercommunality? I am thinking of an example that is quite expensive for us all: France Services houses. They are often largely financed by the DETR so that beyond the money put by the State for their operation, the investment project is based on this endowment. With your amendment, if the Maison France Services were to be installed in a commune which is not rural within the meaning of INSEE while nevertheless benefiting, including through its network, from a set of rural communes, it would not be able to benefit from the funding. This logic doesn't hold. I would ask you to withdraw your amendment because it would make it impossible to carry out certain projects in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u283	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u284	I maintain my amendment, which seems to me to cause some incomprehension. You say, Mr Secretary of State, that it would make it impossible to carry out certain projects in rural communes. This amendment provides precisely that these municipalities continue to benefit from the DETR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u285	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u286	The idea is to exclude from the scheme only urban communes that are members of a metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u287	It's too complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u288	France does not have hundreds of metropolises, so we can guess which municipalities are targeted. I would simply add that a city member who would like to launch a project would obviously be eligible for the DSIL since it is on the increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u289	Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u290	The amendment by Mrs Pires Beaune and Mr Jolivet is very interesting. As a member of the DETR committee of my department, I found that 15% of the total amount of this allocation was paid to peri-urban municipalities whose projects have an average cost of 51000 euros. In my constituency, which has 343 communes – that is, if it is rural – the average cost of a municipality's project is only 31,000 euros. For example, the peri-urban municipalities, which already have many facilities, build gymnasiums while the rural municipalities choose projects that are really essential for the lives of their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u291	A gymnasium is essential for the communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u292	I'm sorry, some non-rural municipalities are running projects that benefit the entire community!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u293	I am sensitive to the spirit of this amendment and will vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u294	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u295	I want to abound in the direction of my colleague Christine Pires Beaune. Let us say that the amendment does not "turn" and that this is not the time. On the other hand, I want to speak for a number of local elected officials who find it difficult to understand that some municipalities perceive the state as a source of solidarity while theirs do not have access to it. There is always a time when one considers that it is because the envelope does not allow it. As we emerge from the health crisis, we must no doubt realize that a small revolution is taking place in our country: before we were looking first for work and then, in a second stage, for housing close to this work, today we may be looking for housing first, and then for work. In other words, rural communities have a better power of attraction. According to a study by MEDEF, the Mouvement des entreprises de France, and the CPME, the Confederation of Small and Medium Enterprises, 37% of employees in the merchant sector could be forced to move, which means that rural municipalities will have to equip themselves to accommodate these populations. It is important to think about them and, above all, to be predictable: let us not be to the trailer of the future, as this happens too often. The principle of equality would like us to give these municipalities a chance, and above all to provide them with consistent explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u297	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u298	I support this amendment in my personal capacity. I have already had the opportunity to say so in the general discussion, the eligibility criteria of the DETR are a real problem. Christine Pires Beaune's proposal goes in the right direction as it allows municipalities meeting the criteria set by INSEE to remain eligible. He seems convincing to me. If this were not the case, the shuttle would allow the device to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u299	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u300	I would like to take the floor again because this amendment is the subject of a vote by public vote. Firstly, on the substance, as I have already told Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune, density has always been for me the criterion on which we must work because it is on him that the DETR will be based in the years to come, but also other endowments, including the DSU. I come to this amendment in particular. The work is being done today at the level of the intercommunal groups, so this is not the time to make holes in the middle of these groups, I say it very clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u301	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u302	For example, this is the way in which the FPIC is allocated – some of the amendments that we will discuss later on. As long as we try to equalise the level of the intercommunal groups, and even if I understand your reasoning, it does not seem to me desirable to draw distinctions between communes within the same group, and therefore to exclude certain communes for the benefit of others. In addition, this would be tantamount to opposing on the one hand the city-centre and on the other the outside and the rural communes. All our municipalities are members of EPCI, communities of communes, communities of agglomeration, metropolises. So we know how difficult it is to ensure that we do not treat each other differently within these different sets. It is for these two reasons that, although I share your view on density, I am against this amendment. Secondly, François Jolivet felt that this was a problem of allocation of envelopes and appropriations – several Members are probably in agreement with him. Most sincerely, while many large envelopes and credits are available, I see the opposite: the communities are asking us not to go too fast because they fear that they will not be able to take on the investment requested and sometimes supplemented by the state in their budget. Today the financial envelopes are quite large. All rural municipalities that will deposit projects over the next two years will have the pleasure of obtaining grants – if you allow me this term, which is used at the local level. Here again, simplification is necessary and some municipalities should not be opposed to others. Moreover, this has no impact on appropriations since the overall financial envelope exceeds 2 billion for next year. We will have to pay attention to how this amount will be consumed – I do not say "committed" – in the next three years: I would point out that the rest of the payment appropriations are already 5.5 billion, an amount higher than the annual budget. It is therefore necessary to find municipalities that are able to consume these credits. Thirdly, Mrs de Courson referred to the question of the DETR committees, on which we shall return later. I'm part of my department too. These commissions should not be overloaded. Their role is to enable the municipalities to obtain their contribution according to the eligibility criteria. They play it very well because they all have elected people invested. With regard to the allocation of the allocation, some measure should be retained as it is deconcentrated appropriations from the State. Prefects play a role. It seems to me already satisfactory that local elected representatives can give their opinion, which is not the case for all the appropriations. For the last two or three years, we have found a balance that seems appropriate to me. For all these reasons, I repeat that I am against this amendment – I would like to insist because the vote is taken by public vote. I agree with Christine Pires Beaune, we always give a lot of reasons to reject an amendment but I prefer that we work on density, which for me is the real issue with respect to DETR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u303	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1270.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u304	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 10 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u305	Amendment No 1093 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u306	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1265.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u307	It aims to clarify the timetable for the consumption of DSIL and DETR credits by providing that 80% – a figure that does not come from anywhere but appears from the questionnaires we sent to all prefectures – of the departmental or regional envelope for DSIL can be notified before the end of the first half of the calendar year. It also provides for the publication of grants on the prefectures' website. They are currently only available in PDF format, with no real uniform timetable for all the prefectures of France. We want this calendar to be published twice and – but this will be the subject of Amendment No 1264 – in an open and easily reusable format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u309	Favourable opinion of the Special Rapporteurs, in their personal capacity. In keeping with the circular issued two years ago, they refer to the need for transparency and clarification, as well as the need for specific dates for elected officials. I note above all – as we were talking about the consolidation of investment endowments – that the four endowments are affected by this measure. This is where the main advance lies. It is desirable that the rules governing the operation of all investment allocations should be the same in the prefectures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u311	Favourable, as I announced earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u312	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u313	What about the DPV? The Special Rapporteur has just said that the rules of operation should be the same for all allocations. I would just like to make it clear that the CPD is an exception in this regard. Since its modalities are somewhat different, the organization cannot be the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u314	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1269.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u315	It provides for a unified filing deadline for investment support allocations, set at 1 March. It was determined in view of the diversity of the dates proposed so far according to the prefectures – for some, it is 31 December of year n-1, for others it is 31 January, for others still on 28 February.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u317	Request for withdrawal, or alternatively unfavorable notice. We do not want to impose a date on prefectures but to trust deconcentration. In practice, files are often filed between the end of February and the beginning of March. It was your previous amendment, which proposed real clarification, which was really important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u318	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u319	I do not understand this amendment at all. First, this would put pressure on small municipalities. Second, it is intended to include a filing date in the legislation when, wherever I go, I am asked for flexibility, and I want to leave the prefects free to apply the right of derogation. We need to adapt to the local context. Therefore, the inclusion of a date in the law seems to me to be a very bad idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u320	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u321	I withdraw the amendment. On the other hand, with regard to the pressure that would be exerted on the small communes, according to the minister, I would like to point out for information that the deadline for filing files for 2021 was 31 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u322	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1266 and 1267, which may be the subject of a joint debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u323	They're out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u324	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1268.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u325	Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's: the idea of this amendment is from my colleague François Jolivet. It aims to include, among the dossiers submitted for opinion to the Committee of Elected Persons, projects which are divided into several phases but the total amount of which exceeds the threshold of 100000 euros, currently chosen for a presentation to the Committee. In the case of some projects, a grant, e.g. €90000, is requested first for a first phase, then the year after another grant is requested for a second tranche, and so on. These files are now excluded from consideration by the elected members of the committee. We hope that they can be submitted to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u327	The Secretary of State had the opportunity to refer to this amendment, which deals with projects divided into several tranches. Jean-René Cazeneuve and I are very supportive of it. We have all used the method of dividing a project into three annual sentences of 90000 euros each, even though it reached a total amount far greater than 100000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u329	As I indicated, the proposed provision falls within the scope of the circular, not the legislative area. I express a wisdom opinion, on the understanding, to be very clear, that we will in all cases ensure that this measure is reflected in the circular to be issued.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u330	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u331	Even if I am not a signatory to this amendment – although I should have been – I propose that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u332	We're dreaming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u333	We count on the Government to include the proposed rule in the forthcoming circular, in order to enhance the transparency and information of the commission of elected officials and to avoid the use of the so-called technique of saucissoning projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u334	It is up to you, Mrs Pires Beaune, to say the end about the continuation of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u335	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u336	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1081 and 1094, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 1081 by Mr François Pupponi is being defended. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1094.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u337	This will be maintained. It is intended to entrust departmental prefects with the responsibility of awarding subsidies under the DSIL, as they already do for the DETR. I confess that I do not understand why this allocation is left to the regional prefects, since they consult the prefects of the département, who themselves consult the sub-prefects, who investigate the files, who then have to go back to the prefecture of the region. All these round trips lead to waste of time that can easily reach a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u338	At least!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u339	It seems to me that department prefects are best placed to know the structuring projects – to which the DSIL is primarily intended – likely to develop within their perimeters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u340	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u341	Amendments of this kind are in fact presented on a recurring basis, and always maintained. As in previous years, we remain in favour of maintaining the current approach to the allocation of ISIL, which we found was still working properly: the allocated funds are actually being spent, which is the objective. Perhaps the existing procedure presents some complexities, but it seems to me that the regional and departmental prefects, who meet regularly, manage to find compromises quite easily. As we had pointed out in the examination of a previous PLF, a fraction of the DSIL is also mentioned in the DETR commissions, thanks to a table made available to the elected members of the DSIL. I therefore believe that the current model is stable and working. This is evidenced by the fact that the DSIL, despite the increase in the appropriations it has received, remains largely consumed in the territories – which is the purpose of the operation. Unfavorable opinion, as every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u343	Same opinion. I am, of course, aware of your position, Mrs Pires Beaune, to the extent that I have had extensive discussions with the Prefect of your region and that I have a note detailing very precisely how the DSIL's allocation procedures are carried out there. It seems to me that your proposal deserves clarification, as each department usually has a delegated envelope that allows it to process files across the department. It is true that the regional prefect keeps a reserve, in the event that unforeseen events occur. This system works: last year it made it possible to finance investment projects very quickly to the tune of 4.5 billion euros – adding up the funding granted under the recovery plan and the more traditional allocations. This action took place very quickly, without any delay. Forgive me, but I believe that you are denouncing a false problem: regional prefects and departmental prefects are coordinating and the way in which the work is carried out does not, in my view, pose a major difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u344	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u345	Of course, the system works, but we are all looking for administrative simplification levers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u346	That is not what is apparent from the amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u347	The assignment of DSIL to the prefect of a department will work just as well and simplify things. I will therefore support Mrs Pires Beaune's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u348	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1252.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u349	This amendment concerns the allocation of the appropriations we have examined; It is intended to make three amendments. Although we are in the National Assembly, I would like to acknowledge the important work that honourable senators have done on this issue. I am thinking in particular of Bernard Delcros, Senator du Cantal and member of the Union centriste group, but also Anne-Catherine Loisier and Charles Guené. We have also associated with this work Secretary of State Bérangère Abba, in charge of biodiversity. What's this about? First of all, we were criticized because of the threshold for defining the municipalities eligible for the Natura 2000 share of the allocation of support for the protection of biodiversity: by retaining only the municipalities whose 60% of the territory is covered by a protected area, as originally planned, we would not sufficiently support the municipalities whose only half of the territory is concerned. We are therefore reducing the eligibility threshold to 50%. It was also observed that the core share of the national park – calculated on the basis of various criteria, including the population – could be very small, with some allocations reaching only EUR 600, 700 or 800 and therefore not of great significance for the rural communes concerned. We therefore propose to strengthen the resources allocated to the smallest eligible municipalities by adopting the principle of a minimum allocation of 3000 euros. This decision, which we felt was important, responds to the request of the Secretary of State for Biodiversity, but also of Senators Charles Guené and Anne-Catherine Loisier. We will thus give a boost to several communes: fifteen of them are already involved, nine of them in the national forest park, for a cost of 18,000 euros. The amendment really improves the initially proposed reform of the support allocation for the protection of biodiversity. This approach should allow for the creation, in a gradual manner and on the basis of certified criteria, of a complementary DGF in order to better support rural areas where rural amenities are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u351	The Special Rapporteurs deliver a very favourable opinion in their personal capacity, since this amendment has not been considered in committee. By adopting it, we would really build a public policy in favour of municipalities fighting for biodiversity. I take the bet that this endowment will be expected to grow in time. Its double amount already – that's very good: it will cover more municipalities and none will lose, as the overall envelope increases. Increasing the number of municipalities eligible for the Natura 2000 share and setting a floor for the Heart of National Park share is obviously in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u352	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u353	As I said earlier, I will obviously support this amendment. I am making the same bet as the Special Rapporteur and Chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization: I believe that this share of the allocation will increase in the years to come. In view of the amounts under consideration, I simply regret that of the additional €10 million allocated, €6.7 million is financed by the communities themselves. Such a scheme would, it seems to me, have deserved 10 million euros of fresh money – to take up an expression that my group president likes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u354	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u355	The article to which this amendment relates envisages doubling the allocation of support to municipalities for the protection of diversity from EUR 10 million to EUR 20 million. The amendment in question is also very interesting, since it extends the number of municipalities eligible for Natura 2000 and provides for a re-evaluation of the allocations granted under the Coeur de Parc national share. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment. However, it is little to say that we wonder about the weakness of the budgets so voted in terms of the environmental emergency. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that, as COP26 – the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties on Climate Change – moves forward, the new commitments made by States will only reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by 7.5 per cent by 2030, when they are expected to decrease by 55 per cent to meet the target of a limited 1.5-degree warming set out in the Paris agreements. To achieve this, investments would have to be multiplied by seven! In this regard, France is doing no better than the others, since according to the report issued by the High Council for Climate (HCC) in June 2021, the fall in France's greenhouse gas emissions will not allow it to meet its 2030 climate targets, namely a 40% reduction in its emissions compared to 1990. According to the report, "due to the delay accumulated by France, the current rate of annual reduction will have to almost double to reach at least 3% by 2021". We are far from it, if only because our country continues to support fossil fuels. That's why I co-signed a forum in Politis entitled "Your inaction is a crime". The least we can say is that the sums spent in small touches on environmental preservation are very much insufficient to deal with the danger that threatens the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u356	Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u357	I will fully support this amendment, because I, like Bérangère Abba, was elected in a constituency that includes part of the national forest park of Champagne and Burgundy, called to become a jewel of biodiversity. It is true that the creation of a national park represents a huge effort for the villages and all the stakeholders of the territory concerned – this eleventh natural park in France took more than ten years to see. For villages, adhering to the charter of the National Park is an act of courage. It is therefore very important to encourage them to continue their commitment to biodiversity. I warmly thank the Secretary of State for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u358	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u359	The Action Together Group will also support this amendment. Through this, we send a very important message to local and regional authorities in favour of biodiversity. It is only a beginning – I believe, like the chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, that this allocation is going to grow – but this amendment is already laying a good foundation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u360	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u361	I would like to speak in response to Mr Coquerel's remarks. It seems to me that the Government, and we as parliamentarians, have acted. You can't say we forgot the climate! [[Mr. Éric Coquerel exclaimed]] Two things deserve to be recalled. First, the Ministry of Environmental Transition has a budget of about €40 billion to distribute investments. You asked us not to cut you earlier, MP, so let me finish! It seems to me that this ministry has been fully developed through the means entrusted to it and which must be deployed. Then, his action is combined with that, much less known, of the portfolio entrusted to Agnès Pannier-Runacher, responsible for what I would be tempted to call the Ministry of Industrial Transition. For three or four years now, you have seen that there has been a great deal of funding to support industry's ecological transition in the territories, as this sector bears a share of responsibility for climate change. We must stress that. Finally, since we are looking at the criteria for the allocation of funds for the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, I would like to point out that beyond the operational allocation discussed here, the DSIL, the DETR and the DPV all include, among their award criteria, the issues of ecological, climate and energy transition of buildings, in accordance with the priorities defined by the Government. You can't say that France never does anything! We must not mix everything: France acts. This may not be enough, but we cannot at the same time denounce the Government's insufficient action and accuse it, as some have done, of shifting large investment credits towards the ecological, energy and climate transition – because that is the commitment we have made. Not everything is perfect, of course, but we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u362	I ask for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u363	I shall leave it to you, Mr President: you have already had the floor and four speakers have spoken. We mustn't abuse good things: let's keep it for the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u364	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1347 and 1248. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1347.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u365	This amendment concerns new rural municipalities with at least 10,000 inhabitants. The aim is to take account of the rural specificity of these communes – why to hide it – it is mainly in Maine-et-Loire where they are numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u366	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u367	The Government proposes that these rural municipalities, within the meaning of the INSEE density grid, continue to be eligible for the three fractions of the DSR; Of course, they wouldn't be at the DSU anymore. This would not replace the guarantees provided for in the Stability Pact that they would continue to benefit from – but would not extend it. This pragmatic solution responds to a concrete local problem and improves the visibility of municipalities with a merger project on their resources. These municipalities have not changed their faces: they remain rural.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u368	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 1248.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u369	I wanted to speak on this because it concerns the Maine-et-Loire of which I am elected. There were 363 communes before the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic (NOTRE), there are 177 remaining today and the movement is continuing, which shows that the initiatives of the neighbours give ideas. This territorial reorganization is a real revolution in Maine-et-Loire. I think it is very interesting for the country that elected representatives invest and innovate in such a way, including and especially in rural areas. But it must be noted that these large new communes, which have up to 25,000 inhabitants, consist in fact only of villages or towns from 2000 to 3000 inhabitants. So we are really in the traditional countryside, the density being the one you mentioned, Madam Minister. I would like to thank the Secretary of State here for his visit to my department, particularly Brissac-Loire-Aubance, a commune which is extremely concerned because, in the rule of law, the villages which have so grouped up would have lost in endowments, i.e. they would have done better to remain independent. It is a nonsense, of course: experimentation in Maine-et-Loire can be a choice of future for other territories and deserves our full attention. I thank the Government for its proposal; I think the Senate will continue to work on this. I know that you are not in favour of increased funding for the new municipalities on a long-term basis, but as we are still wielding plasters for a new territorial organisation, it seems to me that they deserve special attention: this tool under construction in Maine-et-Loire can be useful to many territories in view of the diversity of our rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u371	As these amendments have not been discussed in committee, your Special Rapporteurs express a wisdom opinion in their personal capacity. First of all, as we regularly deplore the complexity of the DGF and the accumulation of rules of all kinds, a new exception is proposed here for municipalities with 10000 or more inhabitants who, in some cases, would still remain rural communes. Secondly, I would like to pay tribute to what is being done in Maine-et-Loire and I am very much in favour of bringing the municipalities together. I note, moreover, that, following these amendments, others will also propose strengthening support for the new communes, and I would point out that a specific programme provides for an increase in the DGF for three years and the maintenance of the allocations for these new communes, and that their investment allocations are boosted. Thirdly, it must be borne in mind, and it is in my view the fairly correct and consistent rule that we have adopted so far, that after some time a new commune becomes a common law commune. If we don't, we can't make it. It can't be cheese and dessert! Moreover, let us not forget that a new commune obviously ends up creating synergies and therefore savings – that is why the old communes have come together. Therefore, taking into account only part of the resources of this commune seems to me to be too partial a view of its situation. The new municipalities, and this is so much better, find a number of benefits in this grouping, but we should not start creating additional reserves in this way, otherwise, I repeat, it would be cheese and dessert. In conclusion, I would like a new municipality of 20,000 inhabitants to be considered rural, but in any case it will still be much less rural than a municipality of 300 inhabitants who remain alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u372	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u373	I am very concerned because I believe that such an amendment by the Government deserves simulations at least. I would remind you that today, 94.5% of the municipalities in France are affected by the allocation of rural solidarity... We're really reaching the limit of the system. If a rural municipality is defined by adopting the INSEE definition, i.e. according to density, a municipality of 10,000 inhabitants may be rural. I agree with the wisdom of the Special Rapporteur because I need more information to take a decision on this amendment. I would like to know, for example, what new municipalities would be tomorrow, under constant law, who would not receive DSR or DSU; I would like to have a list of the communes that now combine the two, Madam Minister, because there are some. Why therefore exclude certain communes from the DSU from the future? All this deserves a little more information. I would like the subject to be further elaborated, particularly in the context of the second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u374	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u375	I rather agree with Christine Pires Beaune. Having failed to register with the article, I would nevertheless like to say that although equalisation is slightly improved within the DGF, we consider that the financial suffocation of local and regional authorities is actually increasing every year and reaching critical proportions. I would like to recall that the loss of profits caused by successive cuts has been more than 50 billion euros since 2014 – this government is not the only one responsible, I agree; If we add the removal of the housing tax, including for the 20 per cent of the richest, which alone will capture half of the savings generated for taxpayers, the huge shortfall in revenue not only for the State but also for the communities – contrary to what the Government claims – we understand that the situation cannot be considered good. To warn about this situation, our group had proposed in the first part of the PLF an appeal amendment to raise the FMD to inflation. Our position has not changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u376	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u377	I hear the arguments put forward and it is true that this subject is unknown, since, as the minister has pointed out, it is essentially a question of Maine-et-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u378	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u379	I am in this Chamber the only one concerned very directly. But it is not a question, Mr Special Rapporteur, of giving new communes both cheese and dessert. A municipality like Brissac-Loire-Aubance with 11,000 inhabitants, if things remain in the state, is deprived of both cheese and dessert! If we consider that this organisational model has meaning and deserves to be extended, then we must adapt the current law so that the new rural municipalities, i.e. those whose density is in line with the definition of rurality, can continue to benefit from the grant of rural solidarity. Otherwise, there is no point in adopting this system and new municipalities are being stopped in rural areas. That is the problem that arises today and I stress that it is really an important amendment for our department and for all the new communes concerned – knowing that there are very few of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u380	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u381	I find these amendments instructive because they clearly show the Government's temptation to handle both the carrot and the stick when it comes to territorial reform. Indeed, he took the opportunity, in times of severe restrictions on the allocations to the local authorities, to grant the new communes a constant level of DGF for three years and a fusion bonus, saying that by using at the same time the carrot and the stick, he may finally be able to implement in our territories – and Maine-et-Loire ran the first after the carrot – which the DGCL has long dreamed of: the abolition of a number of communes for the formation of blocks supposed to be more relevant and logical in the field of local administration seen from Paris. And then the Government realizes that all this has consequences because we forget by biting the carrot that we were pushed by the stick. This is illustrated by the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u382	No, no, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u383	I do not share the view that an impact assessment would be lacking because the amendment is in fact bordered in every direction, but this must lead us to reflect on how the state uses finance to force local and regional authorities to restructure and reorganise itself, which is really not fair-playing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u384	You're out of the question, my colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u385	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u386	I think we absolutely need an impact assessment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u387	We have it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u388	...on this government amendment to find out how many municipalities are involved, how much it costs and also the consequences for the other municipalities. We would like to know, beyond Maine-et-Loire, what the impact will be on the other departments. I still find it strange that the Government is tabling an amendment for a single department when it has just rejected Mrs Pires Beaune's amendment on the DETR, which was much more structuring for the whole of rural life. This is incomprehensible inequity and I wish I had a little more explanation. In any case, without an impact assessment, it is not reasonable to change the staffing regime in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u389	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u390	This new provision would concern only thirteen communes in France, most of which are in Maine-et-Loire, but also in the Manche, Savoie and Seine-Maritime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u391	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u392	The impact will in any case be extremely limited, so the absence of impact studies or simulations is not a problem. But I wanted to intervene to respond to the two misconceptions made by my dear colleague in the LR Group. First point: no one forces the grouping into a new commune. It is the communes themselves who decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u393	The knife under your throat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u394	This really is part of the principle of the free administration of communities, no one has ever forced those who have decided to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u395	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u396	We can see you've never been mayor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u397	Second point: how can we still hear that endowments are falling? I'll keep repeating every time it's a lie. You are still in the Chamber, my dear colleague! You don't have the right to say that the endowments are dropping! That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u398	You didn't listen to what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u399	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 522 as corrected by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u400	It is about the start-up of new municipalities, but I propose not to resume our debate on them. This allocation had not been changed in three years; We hope that it will increase from 6 to 10 euros per capita when the municipalities with a group of less than 3500 inhabitants. The new municipalities are an interesting tool because, in some territories, municipalities with 50 to 200 inhabitants find it difficult to work in isolation to bring their projects to fruition. The new communes are the future. We are all talking about the reform of the DGF: it will only take place when there are just under 36,000 communes. With the new municipalities, the reforms of the endowments will certainly be better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u401	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u402	Favourable opinion. Seeding is proportional to the number of people in the community. For small communities, it did not make sense in its current version.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u403	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to support Amendment No. 1312.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u404	It is intended to restore the 5% increase in the amount of the lump sum allocation for the municipalities in the year preceding the consolidation when it is more advantageous than the seed allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u405	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u406	We have just voted for a more favourable amendment which improves the situation since the allocation now amounts to EUR 10 per inhabitant. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u407	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u408	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u409	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1288 and 1303. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1288.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u410	The financing of certain policies that we support – I am thinking of solidarity – is based on fixed resources since the DGF has been stable for four years. In order to protect certain municipalities, we propose to amend the criterion which allows them to obtain a reduction in their lump sum allocation. The amendment therefore aims to raise the eligibility threshold to the capping of the flat-rate allocation from 0.75 to 0.85 times the average tax potential per capita. This will automatically exclude some 3000 municipalities – those with the lowest tax revenues. This is a justice measure that will allow more municipalities to see their overall allocation increase next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u411	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1303.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u412	Today, in order to finance the internal constraints within the DGF, including the increase in equalization by the DSU and the DSR, all the lump sum allocations of the municipalities which still have DGF are written down. With a threshold of 75% of the national average tax potential, there are many municipalities to cap. The idea is to crush a smaller number of them. Before I tabled the amendment I wanted to have some simulations – I look at François Puppon, because I was thinking in particular about the effects on the DSU and the target DSU. I am reassured by the figures given to me, and I would like to thank the services of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. That said, things are really playing out at the margin. In my constituency, it's a matter of a few hundred euros. Eighteen municipalities will win, but this will be 200 or 300 euros, no more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u413	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u414	Favourable opinion. You are right: we find that the threshold below which a municipality undergoes the cretation is low. In five years, we've grown from 18,000 to 21,000 capped communes. The proposed provision will really increase the number of communes that escape the capping. It's a measure of fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u415	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u416	The logic of these amendments is interesting: the contributors to an equalization fund are to be capped.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u417	That's what we've always done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u418	This means that those who remain contributors will contribute more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u419	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u420	We need to be aware of this. A few will earn a few hundred euros, you said very well, Mrs Pires Beaune, and very few will have to compensate and pay. We have to be careful about this logic. I would remind you that we are launching programmes of the type Small Cities of tomorrow, because we realize that we have a little undressed the towns-centres; However, they will continue to be captivated and to contribute without having the means to assume a certain number of centrality burdens, and without finding answers in the intercommunities that we have made grow ever more. We have in fact built intercommunities whose political equilibrium has moved away from the city-center. While yesterday the intercommunality allowed to assume joint centrality burdens and to share decision-making on these burdens – which remained localized in the town-centres –, today it becomes a means of giving the periphery more, with a point of balance of the detached governance of the city-centre. The latter is often found both without the support of intercommunality, for lack of political majority, and without compensation for its centrality charges. I think we're accentuating the problem of totally undressed town-centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u421	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u422	I have heard for some time that the amendments we are discussing do not concern many communes, that they are not important. However, with a closed envelope, when some pay less, others pay more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u423	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u424	If I may, give the Committee on Finance and the House a list of the municipalities concerned – some have had it, be transparent! We should all have it! This kind of reform has effects on municipalities; Let us know which ones. Once we are enlightened, we will answer you. Saying "there are not many" is not enough! At first, it's never much; In the end, it can be different.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u425	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u426	We will of course give you this list!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u427	If it were before the vote, it would be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u428	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u429	We all know that the envelope is closed, therefore, from 21,000 to 18,000 contributing municipalities, we know that those who will remain contributing will pay a little more. I would remind you that the amounts at stake today are extremely small. It must also be seen that the 3000 municipalities concerned are not taken at random: they have the lowest tax potential. In other words, the provision constitutes an effort of solidarity. You know perfectly well, Mr. Pupponi: when we increase the DSU, we're going to get the money from other municipalities. This is an effort of solidarity that we are making. The proposed measure goes in the same direction. In this case, less is taken from municipalities with the lowest tax potential, and this affects those with higher relative tax potential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u430	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1087.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u431	Like the amendments just adopted, it relates to the capping of the DGF's lump sum allocation. Municipalities in negative DGF situations are exempt from this contribution. For example, the municipality of Puteaux could contribute €2.2 million to the capping. This is the paradox of communes that could be described as very rich, by establishing a parallel with households, which no longer participate at all in solidarity and equalization. On the other hand, municipalities classified in the former target fractions of the DSU and the DSR, finance their own equalization through the capping mechanism. For example, the municipality of Bagnolet, in which the average per capita income is very low at 12000 euros per year, has certainly seen its DSU increase by 136000 euros but notes that its flat-rate allocation decreases by 181000 euros. Make a difference: the difference is negative! In order to correct this and avoid overburdening the lump-sum basis, I propose funding that goes not through the capping, but through the National Equalization Allocation (NPB). DNP has not progressed in years; it is allowed to go out slowly; She's doing a lot of work. It would have been possible, without going so far as to finance all internal needs, to finance some of them, for example, 20 per cent. That would have been a good compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u432	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u433	Dear colleague, I understand the logic of what you are proposing, but it would in some way be a leap into the unknown. It is true that today the amounts of the DNP are stabilized, but it remains alive. This is an equalization allocation, with a whole series of imperfections that you yourself identified in a report a few years ago. I was in agreement with this work and I think, like you, that at some point – in fact, we were rather in favour of abolishing the DNP – we will have to rethink everything and think about a more global and fairer equalization. In the meantime, it remains an equalization endowment: to feed equalization, you're going to pee into equalization... It's a little counter-intuitive. I am not sure that Puteaux has DNP today. Currently, 150 municipalities, which have DNP and no DGF, would be affected. The effects of the device you are proposing are not measurable. I understand your purpose. I do not know who will be sitting here in the next legislature, but the subject will have to be dealt with as part of the overall reform of the DGF. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u434	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u435	I agree with the rapporteur. Madam Member, what you are proposing is beyond the scope of a simple amendment, since it is a matter of reforming the architecture of two of the five pillars of the communal DGF. I would remind you that we referred earlier to the problem of the lack of simulations of the consequences of an amendment which had an effect on only thirteen communes! In spite of everything, we have done a first simulation: while 21,500 municipalities benefit from the DNP in 2021, 9000 would be capped, or 41%. The capping would also be concentrated on medium-rich municipalities, since 2300 of them, i.e. a quarter of the municipalities concerned, would reach the capping ceiling set at 1% of the actual operating resources, compared with 849 today. As the Special Rapporteur has said at the moment, this is an upheaval that can of course be considered in a somewhat broader context, but not at the turn of an amendment. Nevertheless, the question really arises. I note, moreover, that Amendment No 1288 by the Special Rapporteurs partly addresses the problem raised: the capping of the lump sum allocation will be concentrated on municipalities a little richer than is currently the case. So there are commonalities. I will therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u436	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u437	Mr Secretary of State, you will point out that with my amendment, 9000 communes would see their DNP capped, but they are certainly affected by the capping of the lump sum. The delta may not be very important, but it obviously requires an impact assessment that I do not have. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u438	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor to support Amendment No. 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u439	In France, three municipalities, two of which are Finistériens, Île-de-Sein and Île-Molène, have no local taxation. This absence is explained by history but above all by the fact that, because of a particular territorial configuration, they do not have a cadastre. This amendment therefore calls for the allocation of communal equalisation allocations within the DGF to be adapted to the particular situation of these municipalities without taxation. On the one hand, it states that municipalities without taxation will be eligible for the main part of the DNP, which will make them also eligible for the increase in this allocation and, on the other hand, they will be allocated the average tax effort of the stratum for the distribution of the DSR. These adjustments will make it possible to correct two imperfections in the methods of calculation of the DGF which penalise these three municipalities without taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u440	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u441	This amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but in my personal capacity I give a favourable opinion. Dear colleague, I want to say it's a good idea. There was indeed a defect in the calculation of the DGF; your amendment allows very specific municipalities to regain their eligibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u442	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u443	I am of course in favour of this amendment. I had committed myself before you during the examination of the last PLF to look closely at this problem on which Mr Didier Le Gac had already tabled an amendment. I myself received the mayor of Molène, with Senator Michel Canévet. It is an injustice that we are repairing. I would point out that the third municipality concerned is located in Ariège, it is called Suzan and will also benefit from this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u444	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-28-O1036.u445	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Following the examination of the appropriations of the Mission Relations with local authorities and the special account Advances to local authorities; Review of the appropriations for the Cohesion of the Territories mission. The meeting is adjourned.
