ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the first part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u2	Under the conditions laid down by the Conference of Presidents, we come to Article 18 on the assessment of the levy made on the revenue of the State in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 44; No 4526, Volume IX). The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u3	I am very pleased to be before the Assembly again this year to ask it, on behalf of the Government, to authorise the levy on State revenue for the benefit of the European Union (SRP-EU), which would amount in 2022 to EUR 26.4 billion, a contribution slightly lower – by EUR 800 million – than the amount entered in the original finance law (LFI) for 2021. For the past year, the choice of a common and ambitious budget response in Europe, defended by France, has been validated and implemented. Since I had the honour of presenting to you the French contribution for the year 2021, budgetary solidarity in Europe has indeed given rise to major advances: it is now in effect, as evidenced by the deployment of the European Recovery Plan which we discussed last year. For the past year, this plan has finally been adopted by the 27 Member States, in accordance with their respective democratic and parliamentary procedures. This process was lengthy – too much, to the liking of some, and I share this impatience – but it was a time for democratic and political debate: it was not bureaucratic burdens that delayed the implementation of this recovery plan if necessary. The recovery plans of 19 Member States have already been approved – the plans of 25 Member States have been submitted to their European partners and to the European Commission. More than EUR 50 billion has already been distributed to the Member States concerned, of which, as you know, EUR 5.1 billion has been distributed to France. The European Commission has issued more than EUR 70 billion of common debt in this framework and in recent days has made a first green issue worth EUR 12 billion. I would like to stress this, because operations of this type, which meet our different European ambitions – budgetary, economic, climate – will gradually make the European Union the world's largest issuer of green debt. Beyond the recovery plan, the European budget benefits from preserved or even strengthened means to deploy policies deemed essential and priority by France, such as the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), cohesion, health, research, climate, or the Erasmus student or apprentice exchange programme, which will celebrate its 35th anniversary next year. These increased resources will increase in the year 2022, the second year of budgetary programming 2021-2027. This solidarity enabled the European countries to resist the crisis together, by returning, for the most part, to their pre-crisis level of activity by the end of 2021 – which was not the expected horizon last year. It also allows them to plan for a solid, fair and ecological economic recovery. These European means, which I ask you to approve of the French part, are indeed at the service of an important political ambition and, I believe, French. For the past year, the European Union has continued its momentum and progressed on the major projects defended by our country and others, further affirming its sovereignty. In all areas, Europe has put an end to a certain naivety, although it is clear that there is still a long way to go, and has stepped up actions to renew its policies in order to assert its international power. It first did so in the digital field, for example by proposing to regulate certain market practices and to encourage large digital platforms to assume responsibility for the products they sell and the content they broadcast, thus putting an end to the myth of the neutrality of intermediaries currently benefiting these players. With regard to the environment, as I mentioned, Europe acted by proposing on 14 July a set of measures that will enable it to clearly set out how it will achieve its climate objectives – the most ambitious in the world, but also the most concrete ones, since 13 important pieces of legislation now reflect our ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and our goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. But Europe has also affirmed itself in the field of international trade, by finally proposing a framework for the subsidies paid by third countries to companies operating on its market, or by working to establish a duty of vigilance on the part of companies or to ban products derived from forced labour. In the social field, Europe is moving forward on the issue of minimum wages within it to deal with social dumping and is working to strengthen the rights of workers on large digital platforms. It is to this Europe, imperfect but in the process of reform and capable of acting in the world to defend its interests and values as well as to better protect its citizens and businesses, that I ask you to make the contribution of France, which is part of this political context of reform. We will continue these efforts in the first half of 2022 under the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This presidency will be a rare opportunity, as is now the case only every fourteen years, to advance the French agenda – but it seems to me shared – in Europe, particularly on digital, environmental and social issues. More than ever, France will then have to defend its vision of a Europe in response to a triptych of revival, power and belonging, to strengthen Europe's actions in favour of investing in digital and green transitions and to promote a Europe capable of projecting its model and its values in the world, a Europe made not only closer to the citizens by concrete reforms, but also closer to the territories, to which it must provide tangible solutions and support – because the recovery also requires massive support for local investment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I think I can say, without arrogance in France, that, under the determined and constant action of France, in a logic of reinforced partnerships and beyond political sensitivities, Europe has changed for the past four years. The year 2022 and the budget to which I request the Assembly to authorize the French contribution will be an opportunity to deepen this vast transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u4	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u5	Faced with an unprecedented health crisis, the European Union was able to react quickly and well, partly because it learned from previous crises, including the 2008 crisis. It has thus enabled France and its European neighbours to benefit from tools, emergency aid and a recovery plan – I will come back to that. However, we must now prepare for the exit of emergency measures, as we are doing at the national level by putting an end to the "no matter what it costs", anticipating the problems related to the recovery plan and consolidating the future. Therefore, as rapporteur-general for the budget, I will devote these few minutes of speech to two issues which I consider essential to address: the future rules for the management of public finances in the aftermath of the crisis and the arrangements for the repayment of common debt. First of all, with regard to the evolution of the rules governing public finances and national macroeconomic policies, it should be recalled that the general derogation clause of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), which has the effect of suspending this framework, was implemented for the first time in 2020 – it was happy and necessary – and that it is planned to end at the end of 2022, that is, in just over a year. We therefore need to make progress on this issue of the evolution of the framework rules, because the Stability and Growth Pact, which had prevailed until then, has shown its limits before the health crisis, leading to the deployment of pro-cyclical policies without allowing for a real control of debt. For my part, I believe that not only will the new European rules need to take better account of the effects of the crisis on deficits and debt levels, but also and above all that investment, particularly productive investment designed to decarbonize the economy, will have to be encouraged in order to promote a strong and massive recovery of production in Europe and in national economies. With regard to the second point, namely the need to make progress on the arrangements for the repayment of the common debt issued by the European Commission to finance the Next Generation EU recovery plan, let us recall the unprecedented nature of this plan: just over a year ago, we welcomed this major step forward at Community level. Who would have believed, 18 months ago, that Europe would be able to define so quickly a common debt programme of 750 billion euros? France will benefit from this, to the tune of 45 billion euros current, of which 40 billion will be devoted directly to the financing of its recovery plan, which is structured around the three priorities that each of us is now experiencing: the ecological transition, competitiveness and national cohesion. Under the terms of the decision on the EU own resources system of 14 December 2020, funds borrowed under the Recovery Plan will have to be repaid from 2028 or early if new own resources are introduced by then. I will insist on this last point. I would like everyone to bear in mind that, in the absence of new own resources, the SRP-EU we vote on each year would obviously increase, since we should contribute to the repayment of Community debt due to competition from our gross national income (GNI). This increase, which would amount to about €2.5 billion over 30 years, would not be a small budgetary matter. It is therefore also in our interest to invite Europe to make progress on the issue of own resources. With this in mind, the European Commission was invited to make proposals in the first half of 2021 on the introduction of a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, a digital sector tax and a clean resource based on the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), which would be applicable in 2023. The European Commission has also been asked to make proposals on the introduction of a financial transaction tax (FTT) by 2024. Thus, when we reply, in the context of the lengthy debates which are regularly held on these banks on the creation of the TTF, that the issue is now European, we refer precisely to the need to release new European own resources in order to repay the common debt. Given the budgetary implications, the question of reimbursement of the European plan is becoming a major one. Mr Secretary of State, we would of course like to know not only what the new agenda of the European Commission will be, but also to what extent the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, during the first half of the year 2022, will be at the meeting of these two main questions, namely the supervision of public finances and the repayment of debt. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I propose to the National Assembly to approve Article 18 of the 2022 Finance Bill, which sets the amount of our contribution in 2022 to the operation and actions of the European Union at EUR 26.4 billion, which is substantially the same as in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u6	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u7	We are meeting to discuss article 18 of the draft finance law for 2022, the fifth budget mission of the State, on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. In view of the draft European budget currently under discussion, the French contribution, included in the draft finance law, is estimated at EUR 26.4 billion in 2022. This budget line is stable in relation to the amount planned, which we can satisfy ourselves. This is the first point I wanted to address with you since this great stability of the amount is excellent news. In fact, we are breaking an upward spiral, the revenue levy having appreciated by EUR 10 billion over the last five years. I would also like to mention the historic nature of European budgetary news. In addition to the expenditure entered in the EU budget, the first payments to the Member States under the Next Generation EU Recovery Plan launched in 2021 will be fully implemented in 2022. We can welcome this, since France is the third country to benefit from this plan from Spain and Italy. We will soon receive €40 billion under the Facility for Recovery and Resilience (FRR) Regulation, a key instrument of this long-awaited and necessary plan. On 19 August, our country received a first advance payment of EUR 5.1 billion. In order to unblock the next deadlines, France is expected to present in Brussels the first achievements of its commitments set out in the same recovery plan. It should be noted that these EUR 40 billion will represent 40% of the amount of the measures in the France Plan, to the benefit of ecological transition, competitiveness and social and territorial cohesion. I believe it is necessary for Europe to be able to speak more and more to Europeans, a fortiori to all the French. That is why we can welcome this true European added value, considering that citizens' expectations of Europe, moreover in relation to environmental issues, have changed considerably. Finally, the introduction of new own resources, which certainly determine the future of the Union, is a major issue to which the Member States will have to respond very quickly. The year 2021 marked a milestone with the collection of a new contribution for non-recycled plastic packaging waste, which will obviously not be enough to meet the enormous challenges of the future. The Member States – in particular France – have, from the outset, identified the need to agree on new own resources to allow the repayment of the recovery plan appropriations from 2028 onwards, failing which the annual national contributions would increase by EUR 2.5 billion per year. Mr Secretary of State, in addressing you, I wish to respond to the declineists of Europe, to those who repaint the past, blacken the present and demonize the future. From January 2022, in a few weeks, France will hold the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union – a rare and important event since the next Presidency will take place in 2035. This will be an opportunity for our country to contribute to advancing these issues. The Sorbonne's speech still resonating in our minds, I have no doubt that, with the influence of the President of the Republic at European level, and of yours, you will be able to seize this wonderful opportunity to push forward a proactive agenda. I hope that this Presidency of the Council of the Union will go beyond our demands as refractory Gauls in Community life. I know, and am even convinced, that the President of the Republic, who cannot decide everything, will be able to live up to the challenges that lie ahead, he who has demonstrated an unparalleled activism to create the recovery plan by putting all the new ideas on the table and pushing the most difficult issues, in terms of defence, security or migration policy, to name but a few. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the decision of the Polish Constitutional Court to question the rule of law of the European Union, a decision which undoubtedly appears to be a serious breach of European integration and a major risk of destabilization. Let us be vigilant in every respect, even if the images of the tens of thousands of Polish demonstrators supporting their country's membership of the European Union are grounds for hope. Let us remember that if the law sometimes disturbs, it protects most often.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u9	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, alternate Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u10	For the year 2022, Article 18 of the draft finance law sets the amount of the revenue levy in favour of the European Union at EUR 26.4 billion, a slight withdrawal from the amount decided for 2021, which should be, according to the correction made this summer in the first amending finance law for 2021, of EUR 26.5 billion. This slight decrease, however, cannot make us forget the very strong increase in this revenue levy since 2019. This amounted to EUR 21 billion, an increase of 25% over four years. And if we look back a little bit, I would like to remind you that the amount in 2008 was 16.6 billion, so that's a 10 billion increase that we'll have seen in 14 years. This levy now accounts for almost 7% of the net expenditure of the French State budget, an amount higher than the budget of the Mission Sécurités, and only a few very important budgetary missions exceed it: Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities, Research and higher education, Defence and school education. Several factors have contributed to this strong growth in the French levy in recent years, in particular the increase in the rebates granted to certain countries under the new multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. This has mechanically led to an increase in France's share of the contribution to the European Union's budget. We are indeed the main contributor to these corrections but do not benefit from any rebates. France is also one of the first net contributors to the European Union budget. While it abounds the Community's resources to the tune of 18%, the European Union's expenditure benefiting France is in the order of 11%. While our contribution to the common house is therefore important, it does enable us to carry out an action which, in the context of the crisis, has proved to be particularly useful in supporting the states both in the health response, as early as 2020, and in the construction of the national recovery plans, in 2021. The first payments to Member States, whose national recovery and resilience plans were validated this summer, amounted to EUR 51.4 billion and involved 16 Member States. France, which has already received EUR 5.1 billion as such, is expected to receive a total of 39.4 billion grants. These amounts are certainly high but, once again, they must be put into perspective: Spain, at EUR 69.5 billion, and Italy, at EUR 68.9 billion, will receive a much larger share of the European effort, the key to distribution being designed according to a measure of the impact of the crisis on each country. A fundamental and unresolved question to date is that of the resources that should be given priority in order to finance the European Union's commitment to financing the recovery of the economies of each of our countries. As decided by the European Council, it is the product of the new own resources created after 2021 that must be used to ensure the repayment of loans contracted by the European Union to finance the recovery. We have every interest in developing carbon own resources, the revenues of which could prove to be very important. On 14 July 2021 the European Commission proposed the establishment of a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and a carbon trading scheme at borders. These environmentally friendly own resources would extend the approach and spirit behind the introduction of the non-recycled waste tax. However, the creation of such taxes should not lead to an increase in the tax burden on European consumers. The introduction of a digital services tax as another own resource is not desirable in the context of the establishment, at the level of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), of a minimum global tax on large multinational enterprises. It is true – and this should be recalled – that digital companies have an effective tax rate more than twice as low as that of traditional companies. However, the approach taken by the OECD and the G20 is not just to target the digital economy, but rather to find a comprehensive solution. It is in the interest of the European Union to see the OECD-wide reform achieved; the failure to create a digital own resource should contribute to this. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the Dem group]] We are faced with the twin challenges of succeeding, within the framework of the OECD, the reform of the minimum global taxation of enterprises and, within the framework of the European Union, the creation of new own resources. If the reform of own resources fails, it is the Member States that will have to directly increase their respective contributions to the Community budget and thus ensure the repayment of the loans contracted by the European Commission. Given France's share in this collective effort, it would be a failure for our country. On the eve of the French presidency of the European Union, we must be aware of these issues and contribute to their successful recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u11	Mr M'jid El Guerrab, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u12	"Europe is too big to be united, but it is too small to be divided. His double destiny is there," said the famous geographer Daniel Faucher. This levy is thus a symbol of France's solidarity with the unity of the European Union. For this second year of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027, EUR 26.4 billion is stable compared to last year's vote. It reflects the historic turning point taken by the Union following the European Council in July 2020, which removed three budgetary locks: the limitation of the European budget to 1% of European gross domestic product, the balance between expenditure and revenue and the freezing of any new own resource. With its next generation EU recovery plan financed by a joint loan, the Union has laid the foundations for a genuine European budgetary capacity – even if it is, at this stage, still temporary. The European Union is now facing three major challenges: practical work, with the implementation of the recovery plan on the ground; the creation of new own resources, which should make it possible to repay the loan and put an end to the short-sighted logic of fair financial return; after the recovery plan, with the necessary reflection on the sustainability of the joint debt instrument and the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact. Firstly, in the short term, the challenge is the rapid deployment of the European recovery plan on the ground. In France, this is an essential contribution to the French recovery plan: of the €100 billion planned in the France Recovery Plan, $40 billion will come from Next Generation EU.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u13	These grants will finance the energy and digital transition. Almost all of the MaPrimRénov' scheme will, for example, be financed from the funds of the European Recovery Plan. I recall the importance of decarbonizing our economy by investing heavily in renewable energy. We cannot do this on our own: it is necessary to pool our research plans on this topic. That is also the meaning of my motion for a resolution, adopted last year, for the creation of a Mediterranean Renewable Energy Community, around France, Spain, Italy, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u14	The budgetary advance of Next Generation EU has also been accompanied by the strengthening of the defence of the Union's values, at a time when they are increasingly contested, particularly in Poland and Hungary. The Union has established an unprecedented mechanism for cross-compliance of European funds with respect for the rule of law, the applicability of which must be clarified by an imminent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Potentially, it is a powerful instrument in the service of the rule of law: it must be implemented as soon as possible. The Commission has indicated that the first proceedings will be initiated this autumn, following the ECJ's decision. In the same vein, the approval of the Polish and Hungarian recovery plans would seem particularly inappropriate at a time when the European Union is being challenged in its very essence. Secondly, after the unprecedented fiscal revolution of 2020, the European Union must transform the test by sustaining its investment capacity. This, in my view, involves the sustainability of the common borrowing instrument or the easing of the Stability and Growth Pact. Let us hope that the next German government coalition will listen carefully to these proposals! Finally, as my predecessors in this forum have said, this transformation of the test also requires the necessary creation of new own resources, which will be one of France's priorities when it presides over the Council of the European Union, as the Secretary of State recalled. If the road is stifled, the major and recent advances in the taxation of multinationals show us that positions are not frozen and that we can achieve important results. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Chairperson of the Committee on European Affairs, the Rapporteur-General and the Special Rapporteur also applaud]] President Jean-Louis Bourlanges reminded the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the difficulties in the negotiations on budgetary and fiscal matters show the limits of the primacy of inter-governmentalism and the rule of unanimity. In these areas, the European institutions must be more democratic and more effective. At the time of the Conference on the future of the European Union and on the eve of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, let us have the audacity to put the subject on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u15	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u16	The vote we are going to vote on is both important and frustrating. In fact, Mr Secretary of State, you are here the brilliant spokesman for an excellent dossier and, at the same time, you know that the representative of a system that is very imperfect, a system for which you are not responsible, but in which you are, like us, led to move. The dossier has been thoroughly analysed by previous speakers. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has just referred to the fact that the levy proposed to us – in fact, the budget that we are proposing to approve – blew up three locks: it is true! The first is the 1%. Why this fetish figure, on which everyone had fought to the last cartridge – no, fortunately, to the penultimate cartridge – a figure that suddenly jumped for the general good? How do you want to build a Europe with 1% compulsory levy? The second lock is debt. The word "debt" is not a big word, except when the debt ignores the cycle. The big word is to make debt when everything goes well, or to overbalance the budget when everything goes wrong. In this case, we both felt in Europe that a strong investment in areas where we recognize the priority – the adaptation of the economic system and the ecological adaptation of our economy – was necessary. These are choices that we collectively have in Europe. The third lock is the rule of law. This was the origin of a huge joke: Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union had been invented, but we looked at it as a chicken looking at a knife, without knowing what to do with it. What has been developed under very difficult and difficult conditions, but intelligent, in adapting the recovery plan is a mechanism that allows us to punish this part of the violations of the rule of law that would be a matter of financial mismanagement, and that is not nothing. It is no coincidence that, in a State whose partnership and friendship we also appreciate, judges on orders today question the supremacy of Community law, which is indisputable supremacy, because if it does not exist, there is no Community law. If the law of the contract is less than the rights of the parties, how can we imagine that there remains a right of the contract? Behind this is simply the question of the fundamental principles of respect for the rule of law. If this is happening here and there, it is because we are developing an instrument that will allow us to control those who do not comply with the rules and procedures much better than yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u17	And the sovereignty of nations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u18	All this is very good, but the system is imperfect, as we know. We are discussing a completely unsatisfactory arrangement. What is this compulsory levy? This is a system in which there is no real budgetary annuality because, in reality, everything is determined by the multiannual financial framework (MFF), nor is there any universality, because expenditure is not specialised. Of course, the annual budget comes from specialisations, but it is framed in a multiannual financial framework which determines it and establishes, under each heading, what expenditure should be. This system ignores Parliament, not only ours, but also the European Parliament, which has to adopt the MFF by accession, without any real control powers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The president of the Committee on European Affairs and the rapporteur-general also applaud]] Mr Secretary of State, this has to stop. We are well aware that the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union will not be able to do everything; We know that you are coming up with the arms loaded with the "children of others", as André Tardieu would say, and that our children will be handed over to others, but, in spite of everything, we must end this democratic lock. The European Union is much more democratic than it is said, except in the fiscal and budgetary field. Blow up that lock; Let's blow that wart up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u19	Mr Aleksandr Holroyd, the information rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u20	In the early hours of this parliamentary term, together with our colleague Michèle Tabarot, I had tabled a motion for a resolution on the governance of the euro area. More than three years later, to echo Joe Dassin, a century and an eternity seem to have passed. In 2018, we called on the European Commission to initiate a reflection on the nature and effectiveness of economic and budgetary rules, and to strengthen economic solidarity mechanisms. As we begin the examination of the French contribution for 2022 to the European budget, several giant steps – the fruits of France's voluntarism and of the crisis we are going through – have profoundly changed the situation. Firstly, the European Union has, for the first time in its history, endorsed an essential notion which it has so far refused to admit: a common budgetary policy, or at least coordination, is the sine qua non for the survival of monetary union. This is the very essence of the €750 billion European Recovery Plan, which the President of the Republic has obtained after hard negotiations. Secondly, the existence of genuine European economic solidarity is inseparable from such budgetary coordination. In other words, the future of our monetary union is correlated with our ability to correct its effects on national economies. This is the very logic of the EUR 390 billion of grants that comprise, among other things, the European Recovery Plan, It is also the justification for the decisive action of the European Central Bank (ECB) which, for the first time, adopted a differentiated approach to support national economies through its buy-back plans. It is therefore in the wake of a new era that we are called upon to examine a French contribution which, paradoxically, varies little for reasons that have already been mentioned in this rostrum. In this context, it seems to me important to look at the moon rather than at the finger. If this French contribution does not evolve more significantly and if it is not proportionate to the monumental advances that have taken place in the last eighteen months, it is due to a technical lag. These advances have far-reaching implications for our public finances, even major implications. That they are staggered justifies all the more as we anticipate them and debate them today. In 2027, as the rapporteur-general noted, in the absence of a structural change in the financing of the Union's budget, the French contribution will increase very substantially. This increase will be made in accordance with the existing arrangements, after a calculation based on gross national income so early that few find their Latin there without losing it. The progress made in the last 18 months at European level, thanks to the mobilisation of France, has been, so to speak, hopeless. But they have a cost: they condemn us to redouble our ambitions for the following years, those that open up to a French presidency. We have endorsed the idea of a European budgetary policy and that of economic solidarity: we must now succeed in providing our Union with the means of our ambitions by allocating its own resources. Progress on two major own resources is imperative: those resulting from the reform of the emissions trading system and the creation of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders. The trading system and the adjustment mechanism are essential to meet our ecological transition objectives by ensuring that this is not done at the expense of our economies and industries. Both must contribute to the next multi-annual European budget. Beyond these two paths of new own resources, we must continue to look for sustainable resources, particularly in the area of corporate tax, an area in which little progress has been made in recent years. The agreement reached at the OECD on the reform of international business taxation must be an opportunity to make rapid progress on this issue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Special Rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also applaud]] The immense advances of these eighteen months impose twice as much ambition on us for the years to come. Mr Secretary of State, you have been an indispensable player in these advances: the majority will be at your side as far as those of tomorrow are concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u21	Excellent, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u22	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u23	This is the time for the traditional annual debate on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. Unfortunately, this is the only debate on European issues that is truly institutionalized in our House. After the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I want to say that the exercise is important but, of course, frustrating: we should be debating European subjects much more often before a much more full Chamber. As always, when it comes to the European Union, the main political decisions are hidden behind the figures. I recall only two figures, to avoid repetitions: 30% of the expenditure on combating climate change, a necessary shift, but also and above all 143.5 billion, which is in addition to the regular budget 2022 thanks to the European Recovery Plan. Remember that some said that the frugal states would never exceed their a priori and that European solidarity really had its limits: this is the concrete denial, even if the birth was difficult. I would also point out that 13% is the percentage of pre-financing that we have already received from the European Union after the validation of our national recovery plan. Therefore, if we debate the amount of money raised for the benefit of the European Union, let us also have the political right to recall the aid we are receiving. As we approach a delicate period, we always hear a little music about the fair return of payments and about budgetary issues crystallize political issues that remain strong. We need to be very careful in this respect and not just focus on Hungary and Poland, although it is quite normal to pay attention to it, but also to look at it everywhere because the question of the rule of law of the Union is not just a matter for these two States. Let us be very vigilant: we have the chance to live in an area where we are trying to put in place the same rules that must be used for mutual trust, not only between Member States and between citizens, but also necessarily in the business world because they need them to invest. This mutual trust must also play a role in the repayment of the recovery plan: France has until 2028 to define the modalities of this repayment, but already the roadmap for own resources has fallen behind. We have promised this and France will help to repay the EUR 750 billion, but how can we fulfil this commitment without the agreement of the Member States on the guarantee of new resources? The carbon adjustment mechanism at borders is at the heart of the issue, and the reform of the European emissions trading system needs to be addressed at European level. But the announcement of an agreement in the OECD on the reform of international taxation guaranteeing a minimum corporate tax rate proves that it is possible to agree on politically difficult issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur-general, the special rapporteur and the draftsman also applaud]] I shall conclude by going back to the general framework of this debate as at the beginning of my speech: should we wait every year for the European niche of the finance bill to discuss Europe in this House? Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that many European subjects would deserve more attention on our part, many of them have already been mentioned since the beginning of this debate, and I hope that the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union will still be the occasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u24	Bravo! It's speaking in European!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u25	We come to the expression of the groups. Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u26	"The world would feel better if it could count on Europe, a Europe speaking with one voice [...] to make hear, whenever necessary, a message of tolerance and moderation, openness to differences, and respect for human rights. This sentence, delivered by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing at the 2002 Convention on the Future of Europe, finds a special echo today, while less than a year after its disappearance, France was at the initiative of a conference on the future of Europe, the results of which will be presented during the presidency of the Council of our country next semester. The IDU and independent group has also called for a debate in this House on this very important subject, and we hope, Mr Secretary of State, that such an initiative will succeed. On the eve of this major event, which is the French Presidency, there is no shortage of topical issues for Europe, starting with the rise in energy prices, which has hit our citizens hard for several weeks. If the contributions of the European energy market are undeniable, it is also a matter of France having a reasonable voice, whereas today all citizens are paying the price of an ill-prepared European market. Yes, this crisis must lead us to sobriety, to the renovation of our homes and to the rapid construction of decarbonised energy, but also to reflect on a revision of the market, starting with a question about this logic of the marginal price which leads consumers to pay the price of the most expensive method of production, i.e. gas, whereas it represents only 20% of European production. Our country must also push for the creation of a European gas purchasing power plant to avoid the dispersion of contracts in a fully connected market. Without these changes, we all take the risk of some of our fellow citizens calling into question an ambitious European environmental policy, which must be implemented as soon as possible. One aspect of European environmental policy concerns our agriculture in particular. There are many voices against the so-called farm-to-fork strategy, which will shortly be discussed in the European Parliament. The objectives of reducing pesticides and inputs, as well as the growth of bio, are more than commendable, but we must remain very vigilant that these measures do not penalise our farmers and, above all, that the environmental gains of this strategy are not offset by an increase in imports of which the origin is not controlled. Europe's food independence was hard-won in the post-war period, calling it into question would risk exposing Europe to higher prices, such as in the energy sector, and even worse, to shortages. It is time to stop making big promises to the public without empowering farmers to find alternative practices. In this connection, we may wish, more specifically, to address the budgetary question, to regret that CAP funds are becoming less and less important in the European financial framework, whereas the efforts that farmers are being asked to make have never been so important – I measure it every week in my department of Mayenne. With regard to the French contribution for the year 2022, while we can be pleased with its stability compared to the previous year, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State: we have been alerted to the fall in Erasmus budgets, and universities in particular will lose hundreds of thousands of euros that allow young people to travel within this framework. While 2022 was declared the European Year of Youth by Ursula Von der Leyen, how is such a decline made possible? What can be done to ensure that students who wish to leave are no less numerous than before the pandemic? Finally, I would like to refer to the situation in Poland. While the questioning of the case law of the European Court of Justice is gaining ground in the public debate, the perilous act of the Polish Constitutional Court leads us to question the balance of power that Brussels can now establish with Warsaw, particularly with regard to the issue of the recovery plan, without the Polish population being the biggest loser of its government's actions. France must be forced to make proposals at the risk of its Presidency of the Council being blocked by a major political crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the special rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion also applaud]] "Yes, we can dream and dream of Europe," said President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. To perpetuate this will, the IDU and independent group will obviously vote in favour of this French contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u27	A good vote, Mr Favennec-Becot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u28	No surprises!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u29	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u30	I thank the public in the forums for having come to attend this important debate. What will the budget of the European Union and the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union be used for? Big question! To defend the sovereignty of nations and peoples, or still and always a federalism and liberalism that exhausts the planet, natural resources, as well as human beings? Yes, the presidency of France will be scrutinised across Europe. I would remind you that the European Union is 450 million citizens, 92 million of whom are in poverty in 2020. Do the peoples of Europe not deserve better than dividends for a few and austerity for the vast majority? Let me therefore propose another motto to this French presidency, a well-known motto and yet too little implemented nowadays: Freedom, equality, fraternity. This is the path to follow in order to begin a radical break with the dogma of the market and the free and undistorted competition enshrined in the marble of the European treaties. Freedom, first of all, in our international policy to promote the voice of peace by emancipating ourselves from the tutelage of the United States and NATO. Our country can propose a common security pact and a pan-European treaty for multilateral peace and disarmament. The recent Australian submarine case shows the reliability of our so-called allies and how much we need to regain strategic autonomy and foreign policy sovereignty. Equality, then, knowing that one in five Europeans lives in precarious conditions and that energy prices are exploding throughout Europe because of privatisation. As for the scandal of the Pandora Papers and the 11300 billion euros hidden in tax havens, it shows once again the aberration of tax evasion: 43% of this amount would help to stem global warming! France must use its Presidency of the Council of the European Union to draw up a genuine list of tax havens in Europe and demand an ambitious tax conference on the subject. We must stop this scourge! Equality also means putting an end to privatization and investing heavily in public services to ensure that everyone has access to fundamental rights, the possibility of treatment, heating, movement and housing! Let us ensure that these fundamental rights are no longer sacrificed on the altar of profit. Fraternity, finally, fraternity and solidarity, because in recent months we have seen the queues lie before the food banks: today, 7% of Europeans are undernourished! Farmers, for their part, find it more and more difficult to live by their profession while food waste is immense! The right to healthy food, as part of a transition to a local agriculture offering fair remuneration to farmers, should be a top priority. Instead, this liberal Europe does not call into question free trade agreements or the deadly productivist model for peoples and the planet. Yes, fraternity, solidarity would stop competition between workers, eradicate unemployment and insecurity, allow everyone access to knowledge and health, and reshape our trade while promoting peace. It would then be necessary for France to have the courage to say that these economic treaties have died because they are outdated, and that it is time to open a new era, based on new treaties at the service of peoples and nations, at the service of the planet and of human dignity, at the service of the equality and fraternity of all. The revenue levy and, more broadly, the budget of the European Union are not suitable for these ideas. That is why the Communist deputies will not vote on this section of the finance bill. "Happiness is a new idea in Europe," said Saint-Just. It would be time for our country to live up to that ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u31	[[Smile]] It was good, except for the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u32	[[Smile]] That's why we can't applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u33	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u34	Last year, at this rostrum, we underlined Europe's involvement in organising the joint response to the health crisis and its consequences, as the European Union managed the emergency and prepared the recovery: 2022 marks the implementation of the recovery phase, of which I would like to reiterate the importance. Indeed, to support the economic recovery of the continent and build its future, the Union relies on two budgetary instruments: the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 and the European Recovery Plan Next Generation EU. Our contribution to the European budget, estimated at €26.4 billion by 2022, marks the end of a budget that has been steadily increasing over the last five years. The stability observed is due to the fact that the additional expenditure related to the increase in the EU's research and external action policies is offset by new revenue linked to the UK contribution for 2022 and the effects of the economic recovery. It should be noted that France provides the second largest support to the European budget. Thus, our country retains its role as a political and economic leader within the Union. The European budget therefore responds decisively to the exercise of European sovereignty for the next six years. It contributes to the maintenance of its food, industrial, scientific, health and military independence. France has remained constant in defending its highest priorities. Since we are committed to protecting and supporting all our farmers, we have obtained an increase in the CAP budget. France remains, by far, the first beneficiary. Defence is also one of our priorities. The funds allocated to security and defence are up 265 % compared to the previous multiannual financial framework. This exceptional increase is aimed at strengthening the Union's military capabilities, strategic autonomy and sovereignty. During the negotiations, France supported the preservation of sufficiently ambitious budgets for research, innovation and health. The crisis has shown us how much we need to invest in these areas. Horizon Europe for Research and Innovation is up 28% and the Union has created a health programme. Finally, France's contribution makes it possible to reaffirm its commitment to European integration, which is even more essential today. During the health crisis, Member States were able to demonstrate their solidarity and mutual trust. In addition to agreeing on a large-scale multiannual financial framework, the Union has built a historic recovery plan of €750 billion. This giant step in the construction of Europe is an affirmation of the protection Europe offers to all its citizens. As I pointed out in my information report on the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, drafted on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs, these two budgetary instruments are innovative in that they condition part of their financing for the climate transition and refuse to finance projects that harm the environment. Thus, EUR 40 billion of the French recovery comes from the European Recovery Plan. It should be remembered that citizens and businesses will not have to repay this loan: it will be financed by new income, the modalities of which the European Union is currently studying. These new own resources to finance the Union's future expenditure will mainly help those who today benefit free of charge from the European market. In particular, they should consist of carbon taxation at borders, accompanied by a review of the European carbon market and a tax on financial services. As for the taxation of large companies, it is normal not to propose a new own resource until the outcome of the ongoing international discussions is known. It should be noted, however, that last July the Twenty-Seven and the three European institutions committed themselves to creating own resources. As with the negotiation of the European Recovery Plan, the President of the Republic and the Secretary of State for European Affairs will endeavour to advance all these discussions within the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I would like to reiterate the importance of our national contribution to the European budget, which benefits all those who carried our country during the crisis. I am thinking of our farmers, our farmers and, as a Breton Member, our fishermen, as well as all our businesses. This budget also benefits our youth, students, researchers and vulnerable people. Finally, the European budget is also the budget for our future: economic recovery, ecological and digital transition, social justice and environmental protection. Our discussion is therefore part of a crucial period for the values of European cooperation and solidarity that have been defended for more than seventy years. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote for the SRP for the European Union by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u35	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party – and the Republicans – in this debate on the budgetary timetable, which has traditionally been held in mid-October, which deals with Article 18 of the PLF for 2022, which sets the amount of the French contribution to the European Union's budget. This amount for 2022 amounts to EUR 26.4 billion. The rapporteurs have indicated that the SRP is being stabilised for the benefit of the European Union within the nation's budget, and that is a welcome development. However, it must be said and reiterated that there is still a relative uncertainty about the exact estimate of the SRP, because we are not yet at the end of the budgetary negotiations between the European Parliament on the one hand and the Council on the other. This uncertainty comes back every year, of course, as our budget schedules are staggered. Similarly, there is also the observation that the estimate of the SRP may vary in the course of the year, depending, for example, on the evolution of the share of each Member State in the wealth of the European Union. This year, however, there is an additional factor of uncertainty and even risk: the United Kingdom's discharge of its financial obligations to the European Union. The overall amount of post-Brexit bonds owed by the British – EUR 47.5 billion as estimated by the European Commission – was contested by London. Of course, the British Government has made the first payment it owes for the year 2021, but in the time running and in view of the British's failure to respect the word given – it is very painful to see it with regard to fishing quotas – we have a few reasons to be concerned. France has become the second largest net contributor to the European Union budget, all of which, in the medium and long term, relates to the consequences of the UK's exit from the European Union. I endorse some of the comments made in his report by the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance on the difficulties encountered by national parliaments in order to have the right information in time to properly assess and evaluate national contributions in the light of the overall macroeconomic environment. Similarly, I agree with the need to improve the predictability of the French contribution to the Union's budget. In the short time available to me, it is hardly possible for me to make great lyrical flights on the European project. I believe that our compatriots are rather tired of great and beautiful speeches about Europe which sometimes sound a bit hollow. Nor will I have the opportunity to review all the criticisms, concerns, recommendations, recommendations and hopes of our political family of the Republican Right for Europe today and tomorrow. I would just like to reiterate that we will take our full part in the great democratic debate that will be opened on the occasion of the French presidential campaign and that we will be a force for proposals and watchful and lucid on European subjects throughout the future French presidency of the Council of the European Union, which we wish to benefit Europe, France and the French. Our political family of the republican right-wing government and all its members, including the most eminent, have no lesson to learn from anyone in terms of European commitment, and no pledge to give to anyone – that should also be said. I will not end by talking about the future of the CAP and the farm-to-fork strategy, about which we have some concerns, neither by mentioning European migration policy – or rather its absence – nor even by addressing the Union's environmental and energy policy, on which we have had the opportunity to express some concerns – our MEPs will have much to say on all these issues in the days and weeks to come, both in Strasbourg and Brussels. In a few words, I would like to go back to the European Union's attitude towards Turkey. With a certain obstinacy, year after year, the Republicans relay the incomprehension or even anger expressed by many of our compatriots about the maintenance of the pre-accession appropriations paid to Turkey, even though everyone agrees that the prospect of its accession to the European Union is moving away, for all the reasons we know. The grievances and criticisms we have against Turkey are enormous. Mr Secretary of State, you yourself described this prospect of accession as a fiction: then why maintain this double game and hypocrisy and continue to pay pre-accession appropriations to Turkey while, at the same time, we are going to give it 3 billion over the period 2021-2023 for the reception of refugees on its soil? Since these reservations have been made, it is without illusion but in a spirit of responsibility, it is with seriousness and credibility that the Republicans will vote in favour of Article 18,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u37	We're not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u38	[[Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz applaud]] ... without giving the Government any blanks in terms of European policy. As we express our strong opposition to the Government's budget for France, I repeat, we want to be serious and responsible in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u39	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, 2254 homes in Corrèze de MaPrimeRénov' have been used for the thermal renovation of their homes. You may be surprised to see me start by referring to the work on energy renovation of housing, a subject which appears, at first glance, far removed from the French contribution to the European budget. Don't worry: I'm not crazy, there is a consubstantial link between European finances and the installation of double glazing in Ussel or Egletons, in Corrèze. Indeed, many do not know – in particular its 400,000 beneficiaries – that the MaPrimeRénov' scheme, one of France's most successful relaunches, is almost entirely financed by the French share of European grants granted under the Facility for Recovery and Resilience. Thus, far from the financing of distant institutions for uses of which little is known – and which some still assume, almost naturally, bad – this debate directly affects the lives of our fellow citizens. In other words, the SRP and the financing of the European Union arrive directly in our territories, and even on the doorstep of our citizens. In 2020-2021, the European Union, in response to the crisis of the Covid-19, took a decisive step towards an ever more integrated, stronger and fairer union. We have indeed learned from the mistakes of the crisis of 2008 and 2014. We will succeed in preventing too much divergence in economic recovery between the heart of the euro area and outlying areas such as the south and east. Indeed, the direct or indirect budgetary support and all the current and future European programmes and financial mechanisms, which we have already studied in the multiannual financial framework and in the Next Generation EU plan, allow the intrinsic development of our Union. We also consider that, in the economic war on the continents, the SRP for the benefit of the Union contributes to the socio-economic stability of old Europe and, therefore, that of France. The action of France and that of the President of the Republic in this area has been decisive, I should like to stress. But let us not forget that the SRP for the benefit of the European Union – estimated at €26.4 billion – represents the equivalent of almost 10% of the State's net tax revenue in the 2022 budget: that's not nothing. It should not be forgotten that the SRP has increased sharply over the past decade. This increase is both tendential, sectoral and cyclical. More than that, many of my colleagues have stressed that the budget for the European Union could be strengthened from 2028 onwards in order to repay the recovery plan. If new funding arrangements are not adopted by then, this could lead to an increase in the SRP of €2.5 billion in France's budget. In the current state of affairs, this SRP-EU is an extremely strong financial gesture, in a €250 billion FLP of tax revenue; It is a political commitment by France to the European Union. Beyond this – we have often referred to it for two years – the mechanism of debt and common fiscal stimulus must be accompanied by a set of new own resources which would supplement, replace or improve instruments such as the traditional customs duties, which tend to decrease, the anecdotal sugar levy, or what we are voting for today, the contribution to gross national income, the main financing of the European Union. It is more than time, it is necessary for the survival of the European Union to build up real own resources, adapted to our times: a tax on digital activities – some progress –, a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders or even a fraction of a wider, more structural and more generalistic common corporate tax base (CI). I have always defended this: I believe that the European Union must rely on IS for its future. That's what we're heading for. Minister, let's not wait for 2254! I hope that the French Presidency of the European Union, which starts on 1 January next, will be an opportunity to move forward on these issues. You are assured of the unwavering support of Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is because we are enthusiastic and demanding Europeans that we will vote for this SRP-EU and Article 18, which is the wish for continuity but also for modernising the financing of European policies, which make them less dependent on the Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u41	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u42	France's contribution to the European Union budget this year is EUR 26.4 billion. This is certainly not a surprise, since it is of the same order as last year and takes place within the multiannual financial framework started in 2021. This 26.4 billion is not a surprise, but it is a masquerade. I am talking about masquerade because I do not forget President Macron's self-satisfaction at the time of these negotiations, which have been largely unfavourable to us. I am talking about masquerade because I have seen very well how some countries, among the least affected by the crisis, have, for their part, negotiated their signature firmly, to the point of obtaining indecent discounts on their contributions. I'm talking about masquerade because I remember how Emmanuel Macron said last year that these discounts weren't meant to survive after Brexit – the same Emmanuel Macron who will accept a few months later their increase, allowing these discounts to rise to 7.6 billion euros per year. I'm talking about masquerade because in a few years, since 2017, our contribution to us has increased by 30%, that is, it costs us 8 billion euros more. I am talking about a masquerade because this great European recovery plan, which the Government has waged, will cost us 66 billion euros in total, compared to just 40 billion euros received. This plan is therefore at a total cost of 26 billion. We can talk about a case! At this point, I hope you will agree with me that this contribution is a masquerade. And if I regret it, it is also because I am thinking of everything that we too could have negotiated against our signature. Not to negotiate in favour of more austerity, as these so-called frugal countries, which are actually radial countries, but to negotiate for the general interest, to free us from austere rules, to increase our ability to invest in ecological and social bifurcation, to which the sums devoted are still far from what would be necessary. We could, for example, have fought against the competition of European workers, by imposing social harmonisation from the top and by putting an end to the directive on posted work. At the time of the Pandora Papers, you will also admit, I think, that it would have been very useful to put an end to the impunity of the European tax havens that are hiding in the Union as soon as 2020, when they threaten our tax revenues with billions of euros. But, as usual, nothing. Nothing has been done for the so-called social and ecological, but everything for austerity and free trade. When we are then told about the European Union's new own resources as a victory and a solution for its financing, I must admit that I am still in the process of doing so. If a whole bunch of leads have been mentioned, for the moment only one agreement has been found and put in place, that of the plastic tax. It is a tax on the weight of non-recycled plastic packaging waste, taxing the states at a rate of 0.80 euro per kilo. Of course, I see the incentives for recycling with a good eye; You know, as I do, that our group is constantly reminding this House of the urgency and urgency to act. On the other hand, I remain a little sceptical about targeting a tax of this kind on States and, indeed, on peoples, rather than on companies that choose to produce them and derive profits from them, while at the same time being spared by taxation. Above all, the aim of such a tax being, a priori, to push the states to recycle more, if it bears its fruit – what I think and what I want – then the 7 billion revenue that the tax is supposed to bring to the EU's resources should rapidly decrease and not remain stable as expected. While I welcome this in advance, I cannot at the same time accept that this tax is a long-term financing solution for the European Union, which must rely absolutely and necessarily on other resources. Of course, I do not forget the famous GAFAM digital tax, but its ambition seems to me to be of terrible sadness. What's going on with her? I know that it was put in place for 2024, but what about its precise modalities? What about the fact that it would apparently only raise EUR 1.3 billion, i.e. crumbs in view of all the profits that the GAFAMs make on the backs of the European people? What about the other resource ideas put on the table? Why is France not fighting, for example, for the proposal to create a European ISF, which would make it possible to raise 160 billion euros a year and restore a little tax justice? You will tell me that, as we have removed our national ISF, we are not in the best position to talk about this... If I am not surprised by this new contribution or its context, I would like to call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to seriously question this masquerade, the failures that we accept, just a few months before the French presidency of the European Union, and the fact that we are not negotiating, and that we are not imposing choices that are favourable to our country and to the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u43	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u44	The vote on Article 18 of the draft finance law is an opportunity for national representation in general and for the group to act together, resolutely pro-European, in particular to express their commitment to our Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u46	Any crisis is an opportunity, and every test must force us to learn the right lessons. The unprecedented health crisis of the Covid-19 was thus an opportunity to demonstrate to the Eurosceptics how much our European Union was needed. By building on its own budgetary capacity, through the European Recovery Plan, the European Union demonstrates its full role. With an envelope of EUR 750 billion, it allows the Union to become indebted on financial markets at rates far more advantageous than each Member State and is the largest package of stimulus to national economies ever financed. Moreover, this new long-term budget will strengthen the flexibility mechanisms to be adapted not only to the realities of today but also to the uncertainties of tomorrow, while preparing Europe for the future, a greener, more digital and more resilient Europe. This plan is thus an important step forward in European integration and shows European citizens that the institutions we have built together protect them by protecting their jobs and their national economies. In the face of this collective ordeal and in the current geopolitical, internal or external context, it must be noted that the European Union is an indispensable player in the maintenance and exercise of our sovereignty. Only unity can enable us to maintain our food, industrial, scientific, health and military independence. The European Union's budget responds to these crucial challenges for the next six years. The multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 thus offers a good balance between so-called traditional policies and new common challenges. Several French priorities have been met. The preservation of the common agricultural policy budget is a strong signal for our agriculture. The creation of a European defence fund of EUR 8 billion or the increase of a third of the space budget is also a real response to our common challenges. The increase in cohesion policy, particularly in the overseas regions, and the almost doubling of the Erasmus+ programme, amounting to EUR 26 billion, are necessary tools for all Europeans. In addition, €95 billion will be allocated to Horizon Europe research programme, which represents a 50% increase in the resources allocated to research, development and innovation, a major support for tomorrow's economy. Finally, EUR 5 billion will be devoted to a new programme dedicated to Europe's health, in order to strengthen European instruments to combat pandemics. Above all, for the first time, 30% of expenditure is spent on climate transition, and no euro can be used for climate-harmful investments; It's a real step forward. While Budapest and Warsaw have in recent days challenged before the Court of Justice of the European Union the new conditionality mechanism linking the payment of European funds to respect for the rule of law, this fight for Europe's deep values will have to be at the heart of the French Presidency of the European Union, scheduled for the first half of 2022. This presidency will be a pivotal moment to relaunch or complete certain projects, to reaffirm our commitment to the construction of a European project and future, and to deploy new common tools, such as a common corporate tax base or a digital tax. By holding its place as second contributor to the European budget, France retains its role as the Union's political and economic leader. This will be done by maintaining its financial contribution of EUR 26.4 billion for the year 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u47	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u48	As every year, we have a moment, probably too short, to discuss our financial contribution to the functioning of the European Union. Beyond the amount of the levy – EUR 26.4 billion – this debate also allows us and above all to address the state of the Union. This year, it takes on a particular dimension, on the eve of the French Presidency of the Council. We are approaching this semester with a gap between France's legitimate ambitions to advance European integration and the reluctance expressed by some member countries. We all have in mind the recent ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court, worrying if not more. In the face of the rise of Euroscepticism, the questions of ecological transition, strategic autonomy, regulation of digital giants, and taking into account the diversity of territories arise. The year 2021 was uncertain and exceptional for Europe, and the 2022 budget is in line with that. These uncertainties should not lead us to over-precaution that would undermine recovery. In this sense, the European Parliament intends to increase the Union's budget for 2022 to almost 170 billion. I can only welcome the willingness of our European colleagues who are proposing to strengthen the Commission's project of 2.7 billion, in order to invest more in Erasmus+, research, climate action and health. In particular, I would like to highlight the effort made to combat climate change: 30% of the Union's funds are devoted to climate change, the highest level ever recorded. The European recovery plan of 750 billion must contribute fully to these objectives, even if its deployment is too slow. Despite these promises, our group is warning about the slow pace of disbursements: a little more than 5 billion euros for France in 2021 out of the 40 billion promised, it is too little, too slow. The Government had negotiated with the Commission to expedite such payments. In any event, the slow pace of European procedures should not be detrimental to the French recovery. On the other hand, this plan could have led us to rethink in greater depth the funding of the Union, which is now unsatisfactory. The contribution of States has become predominant, three quarters against only one quarter for own resources, and we are in a stalemate. The Freedom and Territories Group therefore calls for a reform of the way the Union is financed. In 2021, the introduction of a new contribution on non-recycled plastics was a first small step. What about digital taxation? France is still very lonely with its GAFA tax. We hope that the Government will seize the opportunity of the rotating presidency to speed up negotiations on this subject, even if we do not minimize the reluctance that exists in this regard. We are convinced that the European Union will never find a fair economic functioning or a social life protected from the current escalation as long as real tax havens remain within it. Furthermore, the Libertés et Territoires Group regrets that in 2022 France continues to contribute fully to the financing of the various discounts enjoyed by certain States; Like the majority of parliamentary groups, we can only recall our opposition to this unjust system. The Brexit and the end of the "British cheque" should have led us to leave such a mechanism permanently; its persistence runs counter to the essence of Europe. The budget negotiations have made it possible to reach compromises, particularly with regard to the CAP, even if we are waiting for the content of the national strategic plans. But they have also been marked by failures, particularly with regard to defence policy appropriations. In 2022, referring to the ambition of a European defence seems hard to believe, and it is not the recent case of the sale of submarines to Australia that will prove the opposite. Of course, the European framework 2021-2027 marked an unprecedented increase in the defence budget, but the amounts remain tiny – only 7.9 billion euros. We need to strengthen this European dimension so that the Union does not become obsolete in a dangerous and unstable world. Beyond budgetary considerations alone, our group recalls its commitment to European integration. The European budget we want for tomorrow must reflect our commitment to building a strong Europe, a united Europe, a Europe of territories, a Europe of citizens, where everyone shares a common foundation of values. I will conclude by saying that the construction of the necessary citizens' membership remains open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u49	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u50	The debate on the SRP-EU was marked in 2020 by three important decisions, which had a major impact on the Union's budget and led to an increase in the French contribution to the same budget: the agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027, which amounts to EUR 1074 billion; the agreement on the European Recovery Plan, amounting to EUR 750 billion; and the decision on own resources (ERPs). The SRP-EU foreseen in the 2022 finance bill is stable compared to the previous – EUR 26.4 billion – but it remains at a historically high level since the significant increase of almost EUR 5 billion between 2020 and 2021, which represented an increase of almost 25%. Let us first turn to the agreement on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027, concluded by the European Council in July 2020. It provides for a ceiling of EUR 1074 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 1210 billion in payment appropriations. With the addition of the €750 billion European Recovery Plan – €390 billion in grants and €360 billion in loans – all aggregate amounts are equivalent to a financial effort of more than €2018 billion, or 1.8% of the gross national income of the 27 EU Member States. This effort is considerable and is expected to boost investment by the end of 2023. Although the amounts are high and represent an unprecedented increase in Community funding, the MFF agreement has a number of pitfalls. First of all, it perpetuates – although it should have ended – the rebates granted to certain Member States, including the "four frugals" – the Netherlands, Sweden, Austria, Denmark – and Germany, amounting to €7.5 billion over seven years. Secondly, the compromise on the agreement on cross-compliance related to the rule of law is clearly in step with previous proposals. It casts serious doubt on the effectiveness of the use of such a mechanism, by now requiring that sanctions be adopted by qualified majority – in the earlier version, it was for the Member States covered by this procedure to find themselves a qualified majority to prevent sanctions from entering into force. Finally – this is the last pitfall – the funds for several important programmes have been reduced compared to the previous proposals of the Commission and the European Parliament. With regard to the European Recovery Plan, France has received €40 billion in grants, 70% of which will have been committed in 2021 and 2022 and 30% by the end of 2023. The European Recovery Plan and the multiannual financial framework have had profound structural consequences, both on the level of expenditure in the multiannual budgets and on the level of national contributions to the European budget. With this revenue levy, France's national contribution, which has already increased by €5 billion compared to the PLF for 2020 – it is stable compared to 2021 – remains historically high in the PLF for 2022. The SRP-EU accounts for 10.5% of French tax revenues. The significant increase over 2020 is largely due to the general increases in expenditure and the introduction of a new method for calculating the national contribution of each Member State. However, it should be noted that the final calculation of the French contribution for 2022 remains subject to many budgetary uncertainties and may still be subject to changes. I am thinking in particular of the uncertainty that remains that the United Kingdom is finally fulfilling all its financial obligations, although it is estimated at EUR 47.5 billion but has recently been challenged by the British Government. Given the inexorable increase in national contributions to the EU budget and the financing needs that will be increasingly important in the future to invest in energy and digital transitions, sustainable and autonomous EU funding should be generated by adopting genuine and substantial own resources. The European Commission is preparing the publication of a "own resources" package providing for the introduction of a basket of new resources, capable of ensuring an adequate level of funding of EU expenditure in the MFF. According to the European Parliament, these resources must be "based on the common consolidated corporate tax base, the national revenues from the EU emissions trading scheme". Such a reform is urgent: the financing of the European Recovery Plan means that around EUR 15 billion of new resources will be made available per year by 2028 and until 2058. Otherwise, it is the contribution of the Member States that should be further increased. With regard to longer-term challenges, it is useful to point out that the success of the European Recovery Plan will also depend on the more formal development and constitution of a genuine fiscal union at EU level. We must now look at what will come after the European recovery plan and, from this point of view, there are two complementary options available to the EU in the future: it will have to perpetuate this powerful investment tool by institutionalising it, whereas it is currently only temporary, while at the same time relaxing the budgetary rules that govern it on a sustainable basis. We call for such reform. So, Mr Secretary of State, would like to know your views on this subject and how you envisage the future stages of European integration in budgetary matters. The Socialist and Related Group will support the revenue levy for the EU, which it considers to be a necessary and indispensable contribution to European solidarity, which we all need so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u51	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u52	I would like to react to the interventions that have just taken place by providing them – as soon as possible – with some elements of a response. Some, first of all, relate to the question of own resources, which has rightly been raised by several Members this afternoon. As you know, it is – if I may say so – the new fight to be waged. We adopted the principle of new own resources in the agreement reached unanimously by the Heads of State and Government and then supported by the European Parliament by a very large majority between July and December 2020. This agreement-in-principle is therefore clear: a roadmap was drawn up at the end of 2020, which provides for several legislative proposals for which the European Commission is responsible. Some have begun to materialize, particularly with regard to environmental resources; I am thinking in particular of the European mechanism for carbon adjustment at borders, which has long been defended by France – I apologise for this unromantic name, but it could be an important environmental resource for the European budget, making it possible to contribute to the repayment of the recovery plan. Further proposals will be made by the European Commission to introduce new own resources; We expect them by the end of the year and they will begin to be discussed under the French presidency of the European Union. I am thinking here of the transposition into European law of the elements of the international tax agreement concluded within the framework of the OECD, which no longer covers only large digital companies but also other multinationals. Potentially, we have an important resource for Europe, which is likely to feed the budget and also contribute to the repayment of the recovery plan. The timetable agreed by the European Parliament foresees several other steps concerning the tax on financial transactions and other environmental resources – the so-called Emissions Trading System (ETS), as it is sometimes called, which targets the price of carbon in the coming years – and the debate will begin in early 2022. We will make the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders a priority of the French Presidency of the European Union. The question of own resources is in fact linked to that of rebates. Indeed, it is clear that the best way to reopen the debate on rebates and remove them – this remains our objective – is to find additional resources to feed the European budget, in order to remove some of the pressure on national contributions. [[Mr. Éric Coquerel made a sign of denial]] This may surprise you, but I share your opinion on this point, Mr Coquerel: discounts are an anomaly and even an aberration. I assume this and our position has not changed: we oppose it. We fought a fight that we won over the common debt – I think it's not nothing – but also, a little over a year ago, about the idea of a European recovery plan amounting to 750 billion euros – that's not nothing either – which you broadly supported, at least in principle. But we did not get, that is true, the elimination of the rebates. I believe, however, that we have protected our financial interests, and I am surprised that you are denouncing austerity, calling for greater international generosity from France, while at the same time denouncing our contribution to the European budget, which you are comparing to the sums obtained under the recovery plan, by means of an accounting reasoning – of which you are not customary –. We intend precisely to repay the recovery plan with new own resources, and not with additional French – or national – contributions in general. This is the fight we must collectively fight. Those who say that the repayment of the recovery plan will cost us more than it will bring us back are not aware of it, but we are leading this fight for own resources and I have good – and great – hope that we will win it, if we take a little political trouble to deliver this essential battle in common. I am sorry, but I do not think it is serious to say that we are still in a Europe of austerity. We Europeans are the ones who spend the most to support our economies, our self-employed, our employees and our companies – I am not just talking about the common European plan here; We are the ones in the world that give the strongest response to the urgency of the crisis and we were the first to adopt an important recovery plan. We may find that this is not enough – and you will see me at your side to ask for this ambition to increase further – but I do not think it is true to say that we are in a Europe of austerity. Since he had to leave the Chamber, I am not going back to what Mr Roussel has said about free trade agreements. We are precisely opposing some of them, because we too believe that the logic behind them is outdated; That is exactly why we are also defending the consideration of environmental requirements through the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders. We will not agree on everything, but, I repeat, we cannot say that we are in a Europe of austerity. We must look at it at the prism of the changes that have been made for at least four years, particularly with regard to seconded work. If we delete the posted workers directive instead of reforming it, as we have done, we would no longer have any rules at our disposal to combat social dumping. Mr. President Bourlanges and Ms. President Thillaye, I share your frustrations, your enthusiastic frustrations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u53	Dynamics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u54	...dynamic, indeed, and always constructive, about how little time we devote to European debates and the procedure. I will not enter into a long debate that would make our delights but would no doubt take us too far – Olivier Dussopt will be mad at me – in the evening and in the night, while the balancing article awaits you, but there is no perfect procedure. The truth is that if we have such a debate, it is because we are in a somewhat special sense of budgetary pluriannuality at European level; The framework is thus set for seven years, according to the partly European procedures in which France participates. However, I believe that this parliamentary debate, even though it is constrained by the multi-annual framework – I recognise it – remains useful. To tell you everything, I do not see any other procedure that would be perfectly satisfactory, since it is with Parliament and the European Council that we approve for seven years the major budgetary balances. Once they are approved, it is true that it is difficult to question them, but when they include good news such as the recovery plan, you will agree that it would be a shame to do so. I would like to add a point on the question of Brexit and British contributions, which Mrs Le Grip, in particular, has raised. There have been some delays in British payments, but – we must sometimes highlight the good news about Brexit – they are being caught up. If the French contribution to the European Union budget falls slightly this year compared to the previous year – even if there are movements in both directions – this is in particular because British payments are for the moment honoured and even increased compared to last year. We have enough grounds for recrimination against our British partners not to add one which, in this case, would not be justified. As regards Poland and the European Recovery Plan, I fully agree with what has been said, in particular by Mr Jerretie: a country cannot benefit from Community aid if it does not comply with the minimum requirements of the rule of law. It is obviously not a question of allocating a price to violations of the rule of law, but, because European budgetary solidarity is costly – this debate shows that our country is taking its full part in it – it requires compliance with a minimum political pact. But it is not always honored. Like many of you, I therefore support the European Commission in its demands on Poland and Hungary. I agree in part with your position on Turkey, Mrs Le Grip, but I want to nuance your remarks somewhat. It is true that the name given to the European programme with the Turkish partner – since Turkey remains, in some respects, a partner –, in this case "pre-accession aid instrument", is not adapted. We have retained it because, formally, as you pointed out, Turkey is still a candidate country for accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u55	That's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u56	I agree. I simply recall the logic of labelling which presided over this name, which is certainly inopportune. The main thing is that the funds committed to the programme with Turkey are controlled and partly reduced or even frozen when the situation so requires. In the past, we have repeatedly blocked loans and budgetary financing for this country. It is also important that these funds target assistance to Turkey for the management of migration flows and that we spend more on non-governmental organisations than on the Turkish authorities – the aim would be to stop going through them at all. To conclude on this point, I share your view that the name of the device is wrong, but the credits granted to Turkey are reduced, targeted and no longer intended to go through the Turkish authorities. I wanted to make it clear. As for the Erasmus programme and the budgetary rules, the first is very directly linked to the amounts we are discussing tonight. As you pointed out, Mr Favennec-Becot, this year this programme is experiencing a transitional reduction in its budget, which is paradoxical since its envelope increased by 90% between the previous budget programming and the one started on 1 January last. This decrease is due to a delayed effect of the covid -19 epidemic, which has had the obvious consequence of reducing European mobility until this year. These are gradually resuming, but the funding provided to support the programme is slightly lower than in 2020, the highest year of the previous programming since it was the last. France is fighting for Erasmus exchanges and funding to resume actively from this academic year 2021-2022. In any event, funding is available to support the resumption of mobility. We expect a very strong increase of more than 25% in the programme's budget from the beginning of 2022, as reflected in the draft budget presented by the European Commission. As a result, there is a strong growth in Erasmus funding, with the low observed in the last period linked to the pandemic and the reduction of mobility. The question of budgetary rules was discussed twice during the general discussion. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery said: in the future, we will have to open the debate on budgetary rules, bearing in mind the important compasses. We need European budgetary rules – Olivier Dussopt, Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, here, will not deny me on this point. It is a matter of seriousness and credibility. We will need rules when we return to a more normal budgetary and economic system after 2022, but we will have to adapt these rules to our new situation, without leaving the old ones there. The challenge will be to encourage investment in the ecological and energy transition. Will we have a long-term investment capacity, did you ask, Mr. El Guerrab? France has long hoped for this. We will discuss this at the beginning of next year with our German partners and, in the course of 2022, with all our European partners. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, IDU-I and LT groups]] I don't think I've forgotten any important questions. I tried to be as synthetic as possible, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u57	We come to the amendments. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1056.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u58	This amendment, tabled on the initiative of our colleague Charles de Courson, proposes a reduction of EUR 7.4 billion in the amount of the levy on the State's revenue from France's contribution to the European Union budget. It is a matter of putting pressure on the European Union to fulfil its commitments to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u59	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u60	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has responded in detail to the questions raised during the debate on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. I shall therefore be brief on this amendment, which is ultimately only the extension. It is certainly not by reducing the amount of the SRP-EU that European payments to France will be speeded up. The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, presented the situation perfectly, which the Government obviously has in mind in view of the forthcoming French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. A decline in the SRP-EU cannot be a good idea at this stage. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u62	Unfavorable opinion, too. This amendment – in fact, an appeal amendment – aims to challenge our European partners and to speed up the disbursement of funds from the European Recovery Plan. Recall that a second tranche of €7 billion, out of the total €40 billion to which France is entitled, will be paid in early 2022. We will convey your impatience to whom, honourable Member, it is best that we honour our commitments so that the European Union can honour its own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u63	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 2136 of the Government, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u64	This is a technical but important amendment, which aims to reallocate to the general budget the remaining European appropriations from the previous programming of the European funds, which have become irrelevant. We need this formal reallocation in order to be able to use these appropriations, which total EUR 380 million and are intended, in accordance with the Prime Minister's announcements on 11 September, to finance local investments, in addition to the European funds of the new programming. This reassignment would obviously be very useful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u66	Irrespective of the technical usefulness of this amendment, the committee cannot give an unfavorable opinion on a provision which tends to allocate an additional 380 million to the state budget. It's rare enough for me to mention it! Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u67	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, alternate Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u68	The amount of $380 million that has just been specified does not appear in the summary of the Government's amendment. Generally, the provisions that the executive proposes to us by way of amendment are quantified. Would it not be appropriate to include the amount of this provision in the amendment? As the rapporteur-general has just pointed out, the figure is far from insignificant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u69	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u70	[[Smile]] I am speaking under the control of the Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, but Amendment No 2136 does not specify any amount because it simply sets out the legal principle of reallocation. The budget estimate of the measure will be included in the balance item that we are going to examine in a moment. What to inspire impatience on this next article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u71	We come to the balance article. The Minister for Public Accounts, in support of the Government's amendment No. 2137, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u72	The National Assembly has examined all the provisions of the first part of the finance bill for 2022 until Friday noon and has just debated the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. With this amendment by the Government, we are now engaged in a particular exercise, aimed at changing the balance article. After consideration of the first part of the 2022 finance bill, it is obviously necessary to draw the consequences, in the balancing article, from the amendments adopted by the National Assembly. The amendments that have been adopted have the effect of damaging the state's balance by EUR 5 billion compared to the draft finance law originally tabled, resulting in a negative balance of EUR 148.4 billion. This deterioration of the balance of EUR 5 billion is financed in the State financing table by an additional mobilisation of the Treasury's cash balances at the Banque de France and of the State's cash investments. The deterioration is mainly due to the decrease in net tax revenues of 5.3 billion, taking into account the amendments adopted in the first part. On the one hand, gross domestic tax revenues on final electricity consumption (TICFE) are reduced by €5.1 billion, in order to install the tax component of the tariff shield announced by the Head of Government. This is, of course, the main amendment that led to the deterioration of the balance. On the other hand, gross VAT revenue is reduced by EUR 186 million, in particular as a result of the change in compensation for the recentralisation of the RSA in Seine-Saint-Denis for 171 million. I would like to draw the Assembly's attention to the fact that, by symmetry, the overall operating allocation (DGF) of this department will be reduced to ensure the neutrality of the recentralisation of the RSA. However, the exact amount of this reduction is not yet known. That is why the Government does not propose that you review DGF's forecast for this purpose. This will be reviewed once the exact amount of the reduction is known. This will therefore be the case of a draft amending finance law for 2022. Other tax revenues are reduced by EUR 16 million, mainly as a result of the abolition of the contribution of territorial solidarity (CST) as from 1 January 2022. It should also be noted that the non-tax revenue is increased by EUR 380 million under the amendment you have just adopted, which provides for the allocation to the general budget of the remaining European appropriations of the previous programming of the European Regional Development Funds 1994-1999, 2000-2006 and 2007-2013, which have become irrelevant. Finally, the levy on revenue for the benefit of local authorities is increased by EUR 16 million, which leads to the deterioration of the State's balance by the same amount. This increase is linked to the amendment that corrects the overcompensation received by the State in connection with the correction between the provisional set-off duties and the definitive duties at the time of the recentralisation of the RSA for the Department of La Réunion. The balance presented in this balancing article is obviously only transitional. It only takes into account the amendments that you adopted during the examination of the first party, and not those that could be adopted in the second part – I am thinking of the investment plan, but not only; This could be any amendment that your House decides to adopt. The balance of the balance sheet also does not take account of any changes in the macroeconomic scenario. Together with Bruno Le Maire, we announced our willingness to revise the macroeconomic trajectory and to raise the growth forecast from 6% to 6.25%. I have had the opportunity to say to you that, pursuant to section 16 of the Organic Law of 17 December 2012 on Public Financial Programming and Governance, we will review the macroeconomic trajectory only after having referred the matter to the High Council for Public Finance, as part of the preparation of the draft law on amending finance. I would therefore like to remind you of the introductory article at the end of the second part of this finance bill for 2022 – and not today – to take into account both the amendments adopted in the second part and the consequences of the revision of the macroeconomic scenario, once the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance has been known. Indeed, if we included a revision of the introductory article today, the deficit forecast, which amounted to 4.8 per cent in the original finance bill, would automatically be revised to 5 per cent in a transitional manner, since it would not take account of any amendments adopted, nor of the revision of the macroeconomic scenario, which would result in an increase in revenue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this amendment to update the balance, which only takes into account the amendments adopted by your House in the first part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u74	I am expressing a favourable opinion on this amendment. First of all, its content corresponds precisely and accurately to the provisions we adopted last week. There is therefore no surprise, up or down, except for the EUR 380 million in additional non-tax revenue due to the adoption of the previous amendment. The figures are in line with the will of Parliament; They reflect the expected and logical deterioration of EUR 5 billion. The balanced article, as revised to take account of the amendments adopted during the sittings, respects the comments made at the very beginning of our debates on Parliament's respect. These amendments, particularly on the tariff shield, were expected. I validate the precise figures for all the new amendments that the Deputy Minister has mentioned. It should be noted that at this stage, given the new level of deficit, there is no need to change the debt-emission programme, as the debt-emission programme for 2020 is sufficient. This is an important subject: there could have been third-party budgetary consequences. We currently have a good visibility of the measures adopted. We will review the second part of this budget at the end of the review to make an update based on the spending measures adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u75	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, alternate Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u76	In your explanatory statement, Minister Delegate, you mention the €5.136 billion related to the TICF. The adopted amendment comes at a time when we had a very long debate on the subject last week, during which you were unable to provide us with the figures we asked for. Here I am satisfied: the weekend was productive, since you were able to provide us with this estimate of 5,136 billion euros. What about other taxes, excluding electricity? Is that to say that they are very weak or that they have not been evaluated? Could you give us an explanation because I am surprised to have only some of the EUR 5.3 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u77	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u78	First of all, I confirm to you that the state services have worked very intensively to produce this estimate of EUR 5.136 billion, corresponding to the fall in the full year of the TICFE, which your Assembly has kindly adopted. Hence this amendment. Since the decline in the CITF is automatically applied, we can calculate the annual amount that we propose to include in the state budget. As far as gas is concerned, the Government will be able to operate the monthly capping mechanism, as long as the prices observed exceed those of October. At this stage, there is no guarantee that courses will exceed those of October – even if we fear it – for one or more months in the year 2022. There is therefore no guarantee that we will be forced – I was going to say forced – to use this capping device: we will only do so when the other mechanisms, especially the compensation mechanism, reach their limit. Thus, there are at least three uncertainties as to how the gas tax cap will be implemented. In the course of the discussions, some may have expressed doubts about our willingness to use this mechanism. I repeat that we will use it to protect French households from rising gas prices. However, at least because of the three uncertainties mentioned above, we cannot make a sufficiently reliable estimate to suggest you register it. I give you this useful clarification: once the other compensation mechanisms have reached their limits, this mechanism will be applied, which will have consequences for the revenues of the State and will require treatment in an amending finance law for 2022. However, as far as our knowledge and forecasts are concerned, it would be too hypothetical to enter an amount. If you will allow me, Madam President, I would like to stress one point which I believe should contribute to the sincerity of the discussions between the Government and the National Assembly at this first reading. We discussed internally the need – obvious – to recall the balancing article, but also the introductory article. We have chosen to call only the balance item, and therefore not to change the deficit forecast formally in the text. However, I would point out, as the balance table before you shows, that we are moving from EUR 4.8 billion to EUR 5 billion on a transitional basis. If we have made this choice, it is because we are committed to this revision of the introductory article that I have mentioned only after the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance. The timetable allows us to carry out this revision of the introductory article at the end of the second part, and therefore at first reading by the National Assembly, so as not to ignore any of the principles of priority. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] I would like to stress this point a little because we recall the balance table without recalling the introductory article. I hope that our discussions and clarifications will make it clear to everyone, to know exactly where this finance bill is being passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u79	We have completed the discussion of the clauses in the first part of the Finance Bill for 2022. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the solemn vote on this first part will take place tomorrow, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-18-O1018.u80	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the first part of the finance bill for 2022; Consideration of the bill on various provisions of health vigilance. The meeting is adjourned.
