ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of two bills authorizing the approval of international conventions and agreements (Nos. 3525, 4033; 3055, 4032). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u2	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part (No 3597, 4049).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u3	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u4	As we begin our consideration of this ratification bill, allow me to have a thought for President Jacques Chirac, who was precisely one of the focal points of the relationship between France and Japan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u5	It won't be enough to convince me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u6	... and to quote it: "Japan and France have in common to be two nations of old and great culture, of strong history, rooted in their traditions, deeply attached to everything that underpins their identity, but also two nations open to new ideas and resolutely oriented towards the future. Two nations face common challenges that they face together. » Well, here we are: to meet common challenges together, this is the purpose of the strategic partnership between the Member States of the European Union and Japan. Signed just over two and a half years ago, it is fully in line with the new doctrine of European sovereignty promoted by the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, aimed at making Europe the first educational, health, digital and green power. To achieve this ambition, Europe needs strong, reliable partners, and Japan, the only Asian G7 member, is one of those. The Strategic Partnership Agreement before you today, together with the Economic Partnership Agreement, forms the basis of the bilateral relationship between the European Union and Japan. It enables their partnership to materialize in many areas, such as connectivity, climate change, security and defence – which is illustrated in particular by the joint exercises conducted between Operation Atalante and the Japanese Navy. We know how fragile regional balances are: division of the Korean peninsula, increasing tensions in the East and South China Seas... The stakes in the area of security are immense in this region, and Europe cannot turn away from it. The agreement must therefore embody the priority given by France and the European Union to the Indo-Pacific space. Moreover, last January, the Japanese Foreign Minister spoke at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, illustrating precisely the strength of this link. We have thus been able to measure the European Union's attraction to Japan and the convergence of our respective approaches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u7	That's reassuring!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u8	The Strategic Partnership Agreement is also consistent with the dynamics of the bilateral relationship between France and Japan. It is ancient, narrow and often marked by mutual fascination. It is experiencing renewed momentum following the President of the Republic's visit to Japan in 2019 on the occasion of the G20 summit in Osaka. The two countries share the desire to deepen their political dialogue on security matters, to improve coordination on international issues and to develop cooperation in the scientific, cultural and economic fields. In addition, Japan is also a key partner in multilateral forums. At a time when multilateralism is fortunately experiencing a new momentum, to which France is contributing with the Alliance for Multilateralism defended by Jean-Yves Le Drian, we share with Japan a commitment to the principles that underpin the international order: the defence of effective multilateralism, action in the service of peace and respect for the rule of law. In an international context marked by strong instability, the strengthening of our partnership with Japan is fundamental because it is a factor of balance and moderation in the logic of force and the fait accompli that certain Powers seek to impose, despite the perils it poses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u10	The Strategic Partnership Agreement provides a renewed legal framework to enhance the relationship between the two parties in promoting and respecting common values, deepening cooperation on security policy issues, combating climate change, and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. On the subject of justice, a subject that is dear to us, I have noted that in committee, you mentioned the tragedy that may affect some binational children. That is why I wanted to address this issue in my opening remarks, out of respect both for your work and for the pain of the families, because I know these situations too well. French-Japanese children are no longer in contact with their French parents because of separation or divorce, which of course causes tears. Many of you have taken up this issue – I see Anne Genetet, whose constituency covers this part of the world, acquiescing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Moreover, in Japan, these situations do not concern only binational couples and reflect a practice relating to the custody of children in the event of separation, which is, alas! Much different from ours. I can assure you that they are the subject of constant and individualised attention on the part of my services, whether in Paris or Tokyo. Thus, when Japan's Foreign Minister, Mr Motegi, came to Paris in October 2020, we called for a demanding dialogue and to reactivate the ad hoc bilateral advisory committee that existed for Japan's accession to the Hague Convention. We will continue tirelessly this fight alongside the French parents so that these Franco-Japanese children can grow up in the love of both parents. Allow me to thank you for addressing this subject in your work, which is of great interest to so many of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u11	Mrs Sandra Boëlle, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u12	The Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan, signed on 17 July 2018, on the same day as the Economic Partnership Agreement – which is already in force – is part of a desire to enhance an already strong bilateral relationship, which has led to the holding of a bilateral summit between the European Union and Japan for the last 30 years. While the agreements signed in 2018 are the two pillars of the desired bilateral relationship for the coming years between the European Union and Japan, they must be distinguished. The agreement we are discussing today is not a free trade agreement and contains very few stipulations on economic and trade issues. The first characteristic of the strategic partnership is to address in its fifty and one articles a very large number of topics, ranging from education and culture to development policy, judicial cooperation and the promotion of peace and security. In its very first articles, the agreement emphasizes the promotion of common values such as democracy and the rule of law, in a context where these values are under threat all over the world. In this regard, I would like to make it clear at the outset that the Strategic Partnership Agreement can and should provide us with more opportunities to address all types of issues together, including those on which there are differences of approach or even disagreements. I am thinking in particular of the subject of equality between men and women, on which dialogue could intensify, or of the thorny question of the status of binational children who can be deprived of their European parent in the event of separation. Furthermore, I thank you, Secretary of State, for taking him into consideration. Indeed, Japanese law does not recognize the right of access or the sharing of parental authority, and this situation has not changed, despite Japan's adherence to international instruments of reference on children's rights. In July 2020, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on this issue, as did the Senate in February of the same year. The European Union is committed to monitoring the number of outstanding cases and to using the strategic partnership with Japan to achieve progress on this issue, which the French authorities regularly address with their Japanese counterparts. Nevertheless, it is our duty not to remain silent and our Assembly, in turn, could adopt a resolution without further delay. We are many in the various groups to share this view, as we have seen during the examination of the draft in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Such an approach would be consistent with the approach promoted by the Strategic Partnership Agreement, which presents itself as a "facilitator" and is intended to promote the implementation of concrete projects and the conclusion of new sectoral agreements. We, like Japan, will be free to propose cooperation in a particular area, but some are already the subject of special attention: security and defence on the one hand, the environment and the fight against climate change on the other. In this regard, Japan, the sixth-largest global emitter of greenhouse gases and signatory to the Paris Climate Agreement, has in recent years pursued a policy that is considered unambitious. The current Prime Minister, Yoshihide Suga, has nevertheless proved more proactive in announcing a goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. The implementation of the Partnership Agreement can make it possible to move forward together on this subject, as the project for a "green alliance" between the European Union and Japan is already being developed. With regard to security and defence, it should be recalled that, at the end of the Second World War, Japan had adopted a constitution, article 9 of which provided for the Japanese people to renounce war and the use of force. However, the interpretation of this article has evolved considerably and, since 2015, the law recognizes that the Japanese self-defence forces can contribute to collective self-defence by assisting their allies. In this context, the European Union would like to use the Partnership Agreement to encourage Japan's participation in the Common Security and Defence Policy missions, as has already been possible under Operation Atalante against Piracy. To conclude on security, the agreement makes the fight against nuclear proliferation a common goal. Because of its history, Japan is very committed to this issue: the Hiroshima and Nagasaki nuclear disasters,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u13	Not disaster! Crimes against humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u14	... to which was added, ten years ago, the accident at the Fukushima power plant, remain very present in the collective memory and allow to understand the strong opposition of the population to nuclear weapons. Since 1994, Japan has submitted annually a resolution on nuclear disarmament to the United Nations General Assembly, but it is also aware of being surrounded by nuclear powers and dependent on American protection, hence its pragmatic position in this regard. Thus, like France, Japan has chosen not to sign the 2017 Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u15	For now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u16	The issue of security leads me to address another important aspect of our partnership with Japan: the European Union's regional policy in Asia and the Pacific in which it is part of. First seen as a commercial player, the European Union seeks to change its image in the region, in favour of political and security cooperation. In the wake of the United States, Asia-Pacific, and particularly the Indo-Pacific region, there is growing interest on the part of the European Union. In line with the Brexit approach, the United Kingdom, which is no longer entitled to ratify this partnership agreement, is also seeking to focus more on this region. Our agenda for this morning alone shows the European Union's increased interest in the Pacific. Indeed, after the partnership agreement with Japan, it is the framework agreement signed in 2017 with Australia that will occupy us. In recent years, the European Union has signed several such agreements with countries in the Asia-Pacific region, including New Zealand and South Korea. For the European Union, Japan appears to be a priority partner with a view to strengthening its regional presence. The Japanese authorities have been promoting their strategy for a free and open indo-pacific basin for several years. It is based on three pillars, on which cooperation with Europe is possible: the promotion of democracy and free trade; peace, security and stability; economic prosperity and connectivity. In this regard, a partnership on sustainable connectivity and quality infrastructure, including an alternative to new Chinese silk roads, was signed in 2019. The Indo-Pacific theme invites me to stress the importance of the entry into force of this agreement for France. There is a very strong alignment of European and French approaches to Japan. We have an ancient, strong and dynamic bilateral relationship with Japan, which was established as an exceptional partnership a few years ago. Our discussions are currently based on a roadmap for the period 2019-2023, which sets out five priorities: strengthening cooperation in the Indo-Pacific area; deepening cooperation in the field of security and defence; the promotion of multilateral global governance; the development of an innovative economic partnership; the creation of a dynamic in the field of human exchange. The first item, on strengthening cooperation in the Indo-Pacific area, is the subject of a specific partnership aimed at undertaking concrete projects in the region. France, the only European Union country to be actively present in the Pacific since the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, is also the first Member State to have adopted a national strategy for the Indo-Pacific. I would like to recall that more than 1.6 million of our fellow citizens are present in the region, in seven overseas departments, regions and communities, plus about 8,000 military personnel on mission in the area. In this context, our country seeks to give impetus to the adoption of a European strategy for the Indo-Pacific region, making France a particularly important partner for Japan in Europe. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I invite you to pass this bill, which, in addition to being able to consolidate an already strong bilateral relationship and of particular importance for the foreign policy of the European Union and France in Asia, will provide a framework for dialogue on all subjects, including the most sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u17	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u18	First of all, I would like to apologize to Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is absent on account of funerals. This morning we are considering the bill authorizing the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan. It is a comprehensive and legally binding agreement that will facilitate cooperation and projects in the many areas it addresses. As the rapporteur pointed out in her speech and in her excellent report, it must be distinguished from the free trade agreement concluded with Japan on the same date of 17 July 2018 which entered into force a little more than two years ago. The agreement we are discussing today focuses on political and strategic issues, which are central to our bilateral relations. The approach to Japan is in line with the approach promoted by the European Union in recent years in the field of foreign policy to dissociate economic issues from political issues. It also reflects the European Union's ambitions in the Asia-Pacific region, where it seeks to renew its image by expanding existing partnerships to include strategic issues. The successive consideration by our Assembly of the bills authorizing the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan and the Framework Agreement between the European Union and Australia also illustrates the ambitions of the European Union in this region, which appears to be a new global geopolitical and economic centre. While the covid-19 pandemic could accelerate this shift towards Asia, we must address the issue as Europeans, with interest and pragmatism. Japan is an ally of importance for both the European Union and France, particularly in view of our presence in Asia-Pacific and the role we wish to play with our European partners in adopting a European strategy for the Indo-Pacific region. We share interests with Japan, but also values, and I would like to dwell on this point. The rich debate we have had in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this text has reminded us of the need for Europe and France to have a dense but also frank and honest relationship with Japan, because our approaches are sometimes different. In some cases, current dynamics suggest a rapprochement. This is the case, for example, in the area of sustainability and the fight against climate change. Japan's policy in this area is expected to evolve in the coming months. On other more sensitive issues, our responsibility is to use the partnership agreement to move forward. I am thinking of equality between women and men, or of Japan's non-ratification of two fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO): Conventions 105 and 111, respectively, on the abolition of forced labour and on discrimination at work. Sandra Boëlle has also returned to the binational children who may be deprived of their European parent in the event of separation, a question which has animated part of our work in committee. Our President Jean-Louis Bourlanges looks favourably at the drafting of a resolution of the National Assembly on this subject. The issue was addressed at the highest level, including by the President of the Republic during his visit to Japan in 2019, and deserves our full vigilance. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] Despite these differences, the bilateral relationship between the European Union and Japan remains strong and is expected to play a strategic role in the coming years. At a time when all eyes are looking to Asia-Pacific and China's rise in power is undeniable, the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and Japan will be a major asset.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u19	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. On this motion, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u20	[[Secretary of State smiles]] I am very pleased, Mr Secretary of State, that you are representing the Government and the Quai d'Orsay today. Even though your duties have changed since the partnership was concluded, you are somehow the culprit in the case before us. This motion of prior rejection is a form of warning against the international agreements negotiated without the peoples, in opacity, and which serve only to divert attention from other agreements that are even more harmful. That is what this is all about: for almost 15 years, free trade agreements have been signed in turn by the European Union. Since I was elected to the National Assembly, I have repeatedly denounced their ecological impact, the ravages they produce in certain sectors such as agriculture, their chronic opacity or the meticulous destruction of our standards, whether they are environmental, health, fiscal or social. The fight of multinationals against peoples was identified by public opinion in the draft Free Trade Treaty between the United States and the European Union – the TAFTA. Many NGOs have worked hard to bring to light the diplomatic and political maneuvers deployed by negotiators in order to make invisible the bad blows in preparation against the workers and the planet. So the plan failed. The social movements seized these issues and highlighted what was reserved for us, namely a totally liberalized world without customs, an absolutely fluid flow of goods and capital and private justice designed to control States with the stated aim of preventing the adoption of laws threatening the investment of large companies. The second warning from the people to promote this type of agreement came about CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union. Of course, the popular movements and protests of professionals – like those expressed by the French beef industry – have not been listened to and this agreement has been ratified. However, Wallonia acted as a grain of sand in the machine: by opposing the project, it alone forced the European Union and its negotiators to review their strategy. It became clear to the technocrats in Brussels that things could not continue in this way; The situation was becoming too precarious. It is well known, however, that precariousness is for the workers and, above all, not for the powerful. They want results that are guaranteed, achieved smoothly, no matter what the people think. Thus, in order to prevent such problems from reoccurring, it was decided to split the agreements into two, separating trade from other subjects. Since trade policy is recognised as an exclusive competence of the European Union, the agreements relating to it do not require the ratification of the Member States in order to enter into force. On the other hand, agreements on other subjects must obtain democratic anointing before they can be implemented. It is for this reason that, following CETA, we were concocted the famous second-generation non-mixed free trade agreements. The concept of "second generation" corresponds to the ambition to break down all barriers, both tariff and non-tariff. Thus, in addition to abolishing customs duties, there is a tendency to establish common standards so that products manufactured in the two areas covered by the agreement are easily traded. In this configuration, it is very often the least-so-called who wins. The terms "non-mixed" indicate that there are two separate agreements: a trade-specific agreement, which will therefore not have to be ratified by the Member States, and a second agreement on the other subjects. But these two separate chords are the two sides of the same coin! They avoid being held accountable to those who might lose, such as the automotive and electronics sectors. It is precisely for this reason that we strongly reject the ratification of the agreement before us this morning. We must reject it and also denounce the economic agreement which already entered into force on 1 February 2019. In this way, we could start from scratch and build something positive and, above all, that corresponds to the new face that the world offers with the coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, the covid-19 should combat cards and change the world: the United States is meant to speak of the idea of a minimum rate of corporate taxation on a global scale; We are talking, like the President of the Republic himself, about relocations; and the International Monetary Fund goes so far as to value planning policies! All these ideas and proposals, only the communists have been defending them for thirty years. Things are changing. Every time capitalism is threatened – and it is more so by the coronavirus than by any other crisis in the past – it mutates to better adapt and perpetuate itself. We must be clear: the globalisation that we have experienced and during which all the free trade agreements were negotiated, died in March 2020. People understood that it benefited only the most powerful, the richest and the capital. On the other hand, the poor, the precarious, the fragile, those in tiring, usable and poorly paid jobs suffer a lot even though they are on the front line to treat us, clean up our cities or organize logistics for our food supply. At the same time, the richest took advantage of the crisis. The French billionaires are the champions of Europe, with a cumulative fortune of about 443 billion euros. Their wealth increased by 45% between 2019 and 2020 – who can say the same about his salary? – and almost doubled between 2020 and 2021. This wealth, be sure, has not been invested for the resilience of our system! In 2020, the world saw that global supply chains were so tense that a single shock could break them, leading to global shortages of essential products such as masks or medicines. Therefore, this trade agreement with Japan has no meaning except, possibly, for a few goods. Making meat about ten thousand kilometers before arriving on a plate, while one produces the same one a few kilometers from home is an absolute nonsense: in the midst of discussion of the climate law, who would dare to vote such a provision here, if not to betray the ambitions of the law or demonstrate that it is only a parody of democracy and a parody of struggle for the planet? These practices, the covid -19 made them permanently obsolete – the Communist deputies hope so at least. But if we are led by the hope of a better world, it is not that we disarm our vigilance, because there is a lot of work before we come to a better world, and this absurd agreement, which you are trying to get us to approve this morning, is a sad example. [[Ms. MireilleClapotacquiesce]] The strategic partnership agreement with Japan, in addition to being just a good thing for the free trade agreement, is badly done and forgets a lot of issues. The first one that comes to mind is of course the duty to be vigilant about the subcontractors' chain. This subject I support with Mireille Clapot, alongside Dominique Potier, is fundamental. France is the only country in the world to have a law that requires multinationals to monitor their subcontractors and make them accountable for their actions. It attracts a great deal of European interest; We should be proud of this and translate its provisions into all such agreements. Yet nothing like this here, while Japan is far from being one of the strictest countries in the field of labour law. Thus, it has not signed several conventions of the International Labour Organization, not least – the Convention on Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation, the Convention on the Abolition of Forced Labour. The lack of ratification of these conventions should be a red line for European negotiators, but it seems that they are only interested in profit. While negotiators do not appear to be sensitive to labour law, environmental protection does not seem to be of concern to them either. Japan is the country that imports the most illegal timber in the world: it is a global scourge, both for biodiversity and in terms of CO capture, which is so important for our forests. With regard to biodiversity, industrial whaling, which officially resumed in Japan in 2019, is also not a step forward – I will return to this in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u21	A real scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u22	Finally, the decision, the day before yesterday, to dump the irradiated waters of Fukushima into the sea ended up convincing us that the Japanese government was treating nature badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u23	It's a litter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u24	With regard to this agreement, some would say that we must be satisfied with what is already being negotiated and allow its ratification so that the two sides can pull each other up. By no means. Japan already has strong commitments since it is a signatory to the Paris Agreement, but the agreement, of very poor quality, which you propose to us is not binding, and will not allow to denounce one of its signatories who would not respect its social or environmental commitments. Yet these are the fundamental questions of the time... except for large companies, of course. Communist MEPs support another globalization, that of friendship between peoples and peace, that of exchanges that promote social, environmental and cultural rights and respect for know-how. Japan is certainly a friendly and allied country that we appreciate, but we must be more demanding with that partner, and renegotiate an agreement that really addresses the problems we are experiencing. Rather than removing borders for goods and capital, rather than destroying health, environmental and social standards, why not work together on an agreement on business taxation, income taxation or financial transactions between the European Union and Japan? Having the same rules could be a good thing. Helping one another to develop our official development assistance projects could also be useful, as Japan is a major player with considerable resources in this area. Working together to help people in need would make much more sense. Why not also work together in the field of energy research to develop tomorrow's energies, particularly around the ITER International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor project? This would make it possible to mobilise scientists around a more valued joint project – I am thinking in particular of nuclear fusion, which represents a huge industrial and energy challenge. In the space field, Japan is one of the few countries to benefit, like France, from a launch base, and cooperation at the highest level between the European Union and Japan could facilitate some projects that are under development in the agencies. Finally, we could work to enhance the value of our respective cultures. All these aspects appear anecdotally in this agreement, simple to make its economic stakes worth. But we want them at the heart of the agreement, not at the margin. That is why we propose that you reject this text, asking the negotiators to focus on those areas that are fundamental to peace, because it is peace that should be the only objective of these agreements. In this regard, I am pleased to have in front of me Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, who, during one of our exchanges going back several months, said: "Trade promotes peace. Of course, it is often said that trade between States promotes peace, but we must move from words to deeds, Secretary of State. Japan knows the price of war, it knows the weight of nuclear bombing – and I thank the rapporteur for mentioning it. Although he did not sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons – and no doubt the influence of his powerful allies is not for nothing – I was able to observe, on a visit to Japan during the commemorations of the explosions of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, especially in the face of the street demonstrations in Tokyo and Kyoto, that this treaty affair was not simple for the Japanese people, the martyred people, who were victims of this crime against humanity. The Japanese Government had chosen its position in that regard, but nothing was lost. Why not propose to the peoples to decide on their own terms of trade and partnership, within the framework of an agreement? This would send a strong signal to the international community, a sign that we can work together, without destroying the planet and without having only economic growth as a compass. If we adopt this motion of rejection beforehand and give the executive a mandate to transmit to the European negotiators the inadmissibility of this obsolete agreement because it is disconnected from life, then we will have done useful work, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u25	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u26	Jean-Paul Lecoq encourages us to reflect on trade policy. It's a little bit beside the subject, but I'm happy to lend myself to the exercise, to remember that, while he has always defended the same positions in this House, it turns out that, since his re-election in 2017, France has made a singular move on trade policy. It is so true that we have achieved the establishment of a climate veto in the context of the transposition of the global economic and trade agreement. Similarly, the European Union has ceased to be naive and no longer hesitates to demand from its trading partners – I am thinking in particular of Korea – the fulfilment of its social commitments, under penalty of retaliatory measures. I would remind you that it is France, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, which, together with the Netherlands, wanted the European Union to change its trade policy and update the software of its trade agreements to better take account of sustainable development issues and climate and environmental issues. This majority may be proud to have moved the lines, which had not been done under the previous legislature. Thanks to it, our trade policy is more and more in line with our other objectives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u27	Scrutinize this deal, nothing more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u28	... in particular the fight against climate change. That is why I invite you to postpone this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u29	Mrs Sandra Boëlle, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u30	We have had very good relations with Japan for many decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u31	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u32	It is a state with which dialogue is possible and, since 1991, European and Japanese leaders have regularly organised joint summits. Failure to allow ratification of this agreement would deprive us of a very valuable means of cooperation and communication. Thanks to the economic partnership agreement that you are denigrating, our exports to Japan have, I recall, increased by 17% in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u33	Is this really the only valid indicator?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u34	Moreover, like me, you know the complexity of the geopolitical situation in the Indo-Pacific area...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u35	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u36	[[Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard applauds]] In this context, it seems to me essential to preserve and consolidate our ties with a democratic country such as Japan. This in no way means that we will close our eyes to our differences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u37	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u38	I heard the arguments of the Secretary of State and the rapporteur, but I remind you that in 2019, when a free trade treaty with Japan entered into force, the latter resumed whaling: what did we do, what did the European Union do to denounce this? Two years later, we are here to sign a strategic partnership agreement with Japan, without a word on whales! And that, while we are in the midst of debate on the climate and resilience bill! As if we had nothing to do with biodiversity! We are talking about the world's largest mammal, the whale, which is dying because a few countries do not apply the moratorium on this barbaric practice and neither the European Union nor France protest. That is why we will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u39	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u40	Everyone knows what my vote will be, but I will use my time to respond to the Secretary of State. I hear your arguments and I admit that France has, in recent years, moved the lines, even if it is still insufficient to my liking. I agree with you but admit, for your part, that this agreement was not made according to the new frame, otherwise it wouldn't be like that, or then, this new frame, that's just bullshit! Now, I want to believe you're sincere. If this agreement does not follow the framework which France wants to impose on a European scale, it must be rejected and renegotiated. We talked about climate and social rights; We talked about binational children, but we could talk about justice in general and many other issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u42	Rejecting this agreement, which no longer corresponds to rapidly changing times, is neither an aggression nor a declaration of war against Japan, but simply admits that with what has happened over the last three years, this agreement has become obsolete and that the copy has to be reviewed. The purpose of this rejection motion is to help you implement the ambitions you claim to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u43	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u44	Mr Lecoq, I hear your reservations – more than your reservations, your opposition – to the agreement, but I would like to remind you that an agreement is used to lay down rules where there are none. This framework agreement, this partnership agreement, sets the conditions under which we will discuss and presents what we believe in, what we defend, what our values are. To understand the previous relations between France and Japan, and between the European Union and Japan, it is necessary to know that it is a culture in which duration is deeply important. The agreement does not question what we believe in, certainly not; It is an open door that will allow us, precisely, to dialogue with the Japanese. Believe me: to know them for a long time now, I assure you that the Japanese are people with whom we must take time. It's very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u45	I agree, that's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u46	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To reject this agreement would be to go back, as you wish, from a blank page, but it would be to draw a pen trait over 160 years of diplomatic relations; It's not the right method at all. On the contrary, we must approve the agreement and move forward by being firm on what we believe in and some of what we want to defend. Therefore, I invite my colleagues to reject the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u47	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u48	I understand what Mr Lecoq has said, but I do not share them. [[Anne Genetet applauds]] You say the agreement is not binding. But, on paper, it is, since its application is conditional on respect for human rights and certain international texts and that one can oppose the non-compliance with these commitments in Japan to suspend the agreement – which we do not do, and that would almost make you right. Nevertheless, that is why we must support the agreement, which will make it possible for them to effectively oppose non-compliance with international texts. It is this agreement that will allow us to act; We must adopt it, and we must do it firmly. Let us not let ourselves be tempted to retreat when things do not go as we have hoped, and continue to work with the Japanese. We will therefore vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u49	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u50	I thank Jean-Paul Lecoq for laying the foundations for the debate. If one can share the utopia of his words, one cannot approve the substance or the method. As far as the substance is concerned, of course, we know the perverse effects of globalization on increasing inequalities. But with globalization, in a year, we have managed to find vaccines, produce them and vaccinate part of the population. These are beneficial effects of globalization. We can't have a unilateral vision of it. With regard to the expression of peoples, there is a European Parliament. He speaks; It is the emanation of the European peoples and it has been at the origin of a significant number of advances on the issues of freedom and sustainable development that you are talking about. As for the method, you propose to review the copy, but it would mean leaving for ten years of nothing without agreement,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u51	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u52	... without any framework, without the free discussion that my colleague Genetet was talking about. We prefer to sign the agreement, even if it is not perfect and it does not understand all the dimensions you want. On the basis of this agreement, we can continue to evolve the relationship with the Japanese, step by step. It must be admitted that the agreement includes a significant number of advances, such as the green alliance and the integration of environmental considerations into trade relations, or the strengthening of the Indo-Pacific axis. It therefore contains positive elements. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u53	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u54	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 49 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 4 Against 44
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u55	On the single article of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the general debate, Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u56	In the series of texts which we are asked to approve this morning, it is nevertheless a bit special: it is, I quote, a "strategic partnership" between the European Union and Japan. The word is pretty, but the thing is actually very bad. Let us say, first of all, that we are submitting to our ratification a text which has been partly implemented for two years. Although this text speaks of the concern for democracy, which we would have as so-called common value with Japan, practice teaches us enough that democracy is really not the subject, neither for Paris nor for Brussels nor for Tokyo. Moreover, everyone here knows in what conditions of opacity the European Commission is conducting this kind of negotiations: a real phobia of the peoples leads it to prohibit, even parliamentarians, from freely consulting the draft agreement. As we know, this kind of privilege is reserved for lobbyists, who have an open table for the Commission. With this kind of procedure, one can excite his love for democracy; No one is convinced, and all that follows this hypocritical profession of faith can only arouse our distrust. Therefore, this partnership would be justified because we would have common objectives for the preservation of the environment. I do not believe that, but it is possible, after all: the European Union is so little exemplary. In any case, the reality denies this speech: as you know, this agreement complements another agreement signed at the same time, a trade agreement that created the world's first free trade area, an area representing 30 per cent of world GDP. That is to say, we have lifted all the barriers that could still prevent goods from travelling several times across the planet between Asia and Europe before arriving in front of their end-user or consumer. In this way, it is impossible that we have not been involved in a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions. After that, coming to talk about the environment is a total hypocrisy, and it is all the more so because of the current situation. As you know, Japan is planning to discharge 1.25 million tons of radioactive tritium contaminated water from Fukushima into the ocean. It must be said that we share such polluting practices. We understand better that we are dealing with an agreement between firefighters of ecology. We would have done better to join forces to find ways to dismantle the nuclear facilities we have on our hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u57	All we have to do is...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u58	But, since I am talking about water pollution, honesty obliges me to say that the problem may not be so serious to you. After all, the overfishing of Asian, Chinese or Japanese crews is so great that the idea of polluting the environment of species already endangered can only be of concern to the timid and sorrowful spirits. I would point out that Japan has still not given up on the cruel and disastrous practice of whaling, which has been the subject of a moratorium since 1986. To be exact, he left the whaling commission and resumed fishing in 2019, the year of the entry into force of the two agreements that the European Union had signed with him. What a beautiful symbol for those who claim to protect biodiversity together! For our part, we don't eat that bread. I just mentioned the Chinese crews. It is of course on purpose that I introduce this country into the conversation, because this strategic partnership agreement is also designed to counter China's growing influence. Following the famous shift of their diplomacy towards the Pacific decided by the United States, Europe, docilely, follows their footsteps. To participate in the creation of a kind of ice around Beijing is also at stake in the text, but this strategy is in no way in line with France's interests: we reject alignment behind any master or guardian, whether it is Washington or Beijing. Densifying our relations with Japan could be an end in itself if we had common plans, but it cannot be conceived in the name of a latent cold war with China. I would not like to conclude until I have raised a less abstract and very painful question: the situation of divorced parents who are deprived of the opportunity to see their children, because Japan grants exclusive parental authority to one of the parents. It is the cause of much suffering, and one of the cases that shows how we can diverge from Japan on the issue of human and social rights. I will try to complete it in a way that, I hope, will be able to reconcile the friends of the great employer that you are and the friends of the employees that we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u59	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u60	How? By reminding you that Japan is the country that has not ratified the ILO Conventions against Forced Labour, that it is one of the least developed developed States with regard to equality between women and men, and that the criminal procedure and the treatment it places on its detainees are so contrary to fundamental rights that even the Insubmis can show understanding when your friend Carlos Ghosn escapes from prison! But it must be said that the French reforms in this area also tend to restrict freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u61	I'm going to ask you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u62	I conclude, Mr. President. In short, whether we are talking about public freedoms, social rights, the fight against global warming or the preservation of biodiversity, we have in common with Japan to do the opposite of what we claim. So that this strategic agreement is rather an agreement on a strategy: the strategy of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u63	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u64	It's a Lecoq festival!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u65	I try again, because I think I've moved my ideas forward; Some have taken them back, and we have a second chance to make things right. While the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union have not learned any lessons from the social and environmental consequences of the previous free trade agreements, they have, on the other hand, learned very quickly to bypass the peoples to have them adopted. Indeed, for fear of a treaty being ratified by them, as was the case with the European Union-Canada Joint Free Trade Agreement, following the opposition of Wallonia, the European Commission and the Government have adopted a new strategy. From now on, mixed free trade agreements that require ratification by the European Parliament and national parliaments no longer exist; The European Union prefers to cut the agreements, as is the case here with the free trade agreement between Japan and the European Union. This is the return of non-mixed agreements. How? By separating all these agreements into two; on the one hand, trade agreements, which are the exclusive competence of the European Union; on the other, which must be ratified by the national parliaments. As a result, there was no actual debate on the free trade agreement in either the National Assembly or the Senate; No parliamentary report has examined the political, economic, social and environmental effects. Citizens are not kept informed of the implications of the entry into force of such an agreement. Thus, on the one hand, the European Union can continue to negotiate trade agreements in the greatest opacity, regardless of the considerations of the peoples which are directly affected by its decisions; On the other hand, it can postpone all the burning issues that can slow down ratification, including the issue of investment protection and dispute settlement mechanisms, which will be the subject of a future agreement. Ratify this already, ladies and gentlemen, we will talk about what's going on later! But it is no big deal: the agreement will have entered into force in the meantime. By choosing to cut the agreements out of small pieces, European leaders have validated a short and totally undemocratic approval process. This method is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen. And the smoke strategy does not stop there: in order to pass the free trade agreement pill, the European Union proposes in parallel a strategic partnership agreement with Japan that skilfully avoids all economic and trade issues. These are the two sides of the same coin, as I demonstrated earlier: an economic agreement to liberalise trade and a political agreement, full of good intentions, displayed to pass the rest. The challenge of this strategic partnership is thus to strengthen cooperation between the European Union and Japan in more than forty areas and to promote the values common to the European Union and Japan. But what values are we talking about? For, beyond the positive display, if we dig, we wonder why we were not firmer in the negotiations. It seems that we have given in to almost all of our supposed values: on the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms, Japan has not ratified the two core ILO conventions, the first on discrimination in employment and occupation, and the second on the abolition of forced labour. The country is receding – not progressing, shrinking! – strong gender equality; it fails to comply with its commitments under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child when they are deprived of contact with one of their parents in Japan. Ten years of discussions on this treaty, and a regression on values! This is proof that the treaty is not making progress. What are our common values on environmental issues, when we know that Japan is the main illegal timber market in the world and that nothing is foreseen to remedy this in the agreement? What are our common values in fisheries, while Japan has taken over the commercial value of whales for two years and nothing has been done to prevent them? You will not make me believe that the negotiators ignored this development two years ago, it is not true! What did they do? Nothing! What did they say? Nothing! Neither the Government nor the European negotiators. This agreement could have served as a model. This morning, you finally retort that it aims to remedy the problems raised by the free trade agreement with Japan, while it does not provide for any constraints on respect for the environment and fundamental rights. In the face of the dishonest strategy deployed by the European Union to have these commercial outrages adopted, the shortcomings and inconsistencies of this agreement, Bruno Fuchs indicated earlier that it was the result of more than ten years of negotiations. I don't deny it. The Secretary of State said that, for four years since the majority came to power, she had been trying to move the lines, providing for additional environmental constraints, among other things. But then, why not cross the approaches and return the ten years of work on the agreement to scrutinize this new French position? Parliament must assist the executive, since if it is bound by its signature, the ratification procedure is still under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u66	I ask you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u67	We can therefore, by rejecting this agreement, give the Government the key to inviting negotiators to scrutinize the values of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u68	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u69	Madame Genetet, show me that I convinced you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u70	In April, as we look at the bill authorizing the ratification of the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and Japan, the land of the rising sun celebrates the sakura, the cherry trees in bloom; It is a moment of contemplation of the ephemeral, but above all, a time of sharing. What more powerful symbol of friendship, of sharing among our peoples than the adoption of this agreement? It's a nice deal, a very nice deal, even; One of the people who makes history. It is part of a dynamic of strengthening and consolidating an already rich and dense bilateral relationship. This relationship, which has been formalised for more than a century and a half during the Edo era of Tokugawa Shogunate, is illustrated today by the intensity of our exchanges and our common commitment to democratic principles, human rights, the rule of law, but also to the defence of the law of the sea and international law, in all its dimensions. The Strategic Partnership Agreement is intended to replace the Joint Action Plan between the European Union and Japan, adopted in 2001. It is an emblematic fruit of cooperation between the Japanese and European peoples, and it is a great success. This strengthened our economic relationship; Foreign policy exchanges and coordination have intensified, as have sectoral cooperation. But the world is not the same as 20 years ago, you will agree. This Strategic Partnership Agreement is therefore fundamental in that it integrates new key sectors, such as space, research, innovation and industrial policy. It also responds to emerging issues and opens up opportunities for further development in the areas of defence, climate and connectivity. It should be distinguished from the Economic Partnership Agreement concluded between the two parties and signed on the same day – both have absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Do not displease the critics of this agreement, to all those who are afraid of the progress that humanity makes when it works together,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u71	This is ridiculous! You're a cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u72	...this agreement speaks of the future, as it offers the opportunity to aspire to a better world and allows for closer cooperation between the European Union and Japan, on key issues such as peace and international stability. The agreement is also fully in line with the affirmation of an ambitious regional policy in Asia and in particular on the Indo-Pacific axis, of which Japan is one of the pillars. Because it provides channels for dialogue, the fluidity of trade between our two regions will be strengthened and we will be able to contribute together to the stability of a region where – we must not be an expert in international relations to observe it – tensions are rising, and where, in the face of the increasing hegemonic appetites of some and the alarming unpredictability of others, Japan is a democratic island and a reliable ally of Europe. In order for France to weigh on the international stage, it must maintain a concrete presence in the area and this agreement offers it the opportunity. By making it a priority of France's foreign policy, as soon as it was elected in 2017, President Emmanuel Macron had understood that France should assert itself as a major player. He went to Japan in 2019 to reaffirm the links between our two countries. This Agreement is also of crucial importance for the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022. During this period, France is intended to bring European values and principles to the Indo-Pacific region, by putting forward a genuine European regional strategy. Being a partner does not mean agreeing on everything. Domestic violence against women, the death penalty, the abduction of binational children, but also – and this is a very recent example – the discharge into the ocean of contaminated water in Fukushima, represent social issues on which we have deep differences and which will need to be discussed in the framework of this agreement. To allow the ratification of this partnership agreement is therefore not to grant a blank sitting, but to open frank dialogues, within a framework defined in advance. The agreement will provide a basis for further progress, new partnerships and new points of convergence. [[Ms IsabelleRauchapplaudit]] From Mount Blanc to Mount Fuji, share our shared vision and the conviction that together we will meet these common challenges. In conclusion, I borrow from the illustrious Japanese people a proverb that fits perfectly in the spirit of the agreement: "No road is long with a friend. On behalf of the Republic on the move, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u73	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u74	Today we are considering the bill authorizing the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan. This framework agreement, supplemented by the Economic Partnership Agreement, and signed as it did on the occasion of the twenty-fifth summit between the European Union and Japan in 2018, entered into force provisionally on 1 February 2019 – this is a point of method that we might be surprised at. However, this agreement is important for the European Union and for France. It is part of a new EU regional policy in the Asia-Pacific region. As is well known, the Commission has concluded a series of cooperation agreements with several countries in the region, with a clear ambition: to affirm Europe's important role in this area. That is why it is essential to renew the partnership with Japan, a country with which we share common core values and which is an important economic partner. Cooperation should now be developed on political, security and other issues in Asia. While the Economic Partnership Agreement strengthens the important cooperation between the European Union and Japan by creating an economic zone of 635 million inhabitants, representing one third of world GDP, the interest of this political agreement must also be welcomed. Indeed, as Mrs Genetet pointed out, this framework agreement creates legally binding mechanisms covering all areas of sectoral cooperation and reaffirms the shared values between the two parties. There is also a need to promote the creation of a joint committee, which is assigned several functions, including the coordination of the partnership on the themes mentioned in the agreement, but also on others, as long as they are compatible with it. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group would particularly like to welcome the consideration of the issues relating to ecological transition and climate change, in particular through the proposal to form a green alliance with Japan. France's ambition on climate and environment at national and European level must be reflected in this political agreement, in order to give new impetus to our cooperation with Japan, which recently set a carbon neutrality target by 2050. For France, Japan is not only the largest Asian investor in its territory, but also its second largest trading partner in Asia. The agreement strengthens this economic relationship and develops an Indo-Pacific foreign policy, as does the Franco-Japanese partnership for this region. It also makes it possible to launch concrete projects within the framework of the roadmap for Franco-Japanese cooperation. With this text, the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan makes sense. Both are part of a truly comprehensive framework for bilateral cooperation. Ratification of this text will thus strengthen the binding dimension of the trade agreement, particularly in the area of sustainable development. Here again, I would like to stress our group's commitment to the ratification of this agreement, in order to confirm that the climate and the environment are taken into account in our trade with Japan, but also, more generally, in our trade policy. Together, the two agreements form the most important bilateral agreement; they set a new reference in the European Union's trade and cooperation policy. Although different in scope, they are complementary. [[Mr. Jean-PaulLecoqacquiesce]] Like others, Jean-Paul Lecoq, in particular, I note the differences with Japan, in particular on human rights, the rights of the child in the event of divorce – a question raised several times – and the whaling. But we believe that by allowing the ratification of this agreement, we will have a stronger impact on our Japanese partners, in order to overcome these important differences. On the other hand, if we did not reject it, we would have no negotiating lever to move this country forward. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will therefore of course vote in favour of the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement, which, as I have already explained, gives a binding global framework to the already rich and dynamic relationship between France, the European Union and Japan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u75	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u76	As I said during the examination of the text in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have all too often deplored the fact that the trade agreements that the European Commission has called for do not provide for a stronger element of cooperation in other areas so as not to look at this bill with a good eye. Indeed, for once, an economic and trade partnership agreement, the one concluded in July 2018 with Japan, is accompanied by a second text containing promising political and sectoral provisions, particularly in the environmental and cultural fields. I welcome the importance of the fight against global warming; I see it as a continuation of François Hollande's action for France at COP21. [[Mr. Jean-PaulLecoqrit]] Secretary of State, I have heard you criticise previous governments for the absence of an environmental clause in the international agreements they have signed. True, but show a little humility, for there are many examples of your weaknesses, with Mercosur in particular. Criticism does not make a policy. However, I would like to point out that in February 2019, at the time of the provisional entry into force of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan, the majority group had tabled a motion for a resolution on this agreement and on the European trade agenda. It had been discussed in open session and was not exempt from a number of criticisms or reservations. In that resolution, the National Assembly welcomed "the inclusion of the precautionary principle, particularly in the chapters on sanitary and phytosanitary issues, sustainable development and technical obstacles", but regretted that "the chapter on sustainable development... is not binding". Similarly, it welcomed the "reference... to the Paris agreements" on the climate in the text, but regretted that compliance with those agreements was not "integrated into the essential clauses of the agreements under negotiation". In addition, attention had been paid to the Assembly's desire that "public climate policies should not be weakened by the dispute settlement mechanism of future investment agreements". With regard to the Economic Partnership Agreement with Japan, she considered: "the absence of a derogation from non-tariff barriers for goods contributing to the fight against climate change is a missed opportunity that will have to be integrated into future agreements". Thus, I repeat, while the strategic partnership agreement which the Assembly is about to authorize ratification does not pose a major problem in substance, the second part, namely the Economic Partnership Agreement, is not, on the other hand, exempt from criticism or reservations, particularly with regard to the environmental and social dimensions. For all these reasons, we will vote for this text, but we will be much more vigilant when we look at the second aspect, economic and commercial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u77	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u78	We are addressing the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan, signed on 17 July 2018 in Tokyo, together with the Economic Partnership Agreement. The implementation of this agreement will strengthen bilateral relations and cooperation between the European Union and Japan in more than 40 areas, including security, energy, disaster management, cyber-attack prevention, economic affairs, education, research and development, the fight against terrorism and the fight against climate change. The relationship between the peoples of Europe and Japan has long been based on their common adherence to an ideal, a world in which democracy and the rule of law should prevail, where fundamental freedoms would be preserved, where international peace and stability would be guaranteed. In addition, this text will enable us to preserve the particular interests of the European Union and Japan and their shared interests, in continuity with the Joint Action Plan adopted in 2001. All the more so since, unlike the latter, the 2018 agreement has a legally binding value. First, the agreement calls on the parties to work together to preserve the environment and combat climate change, reaffirming the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In addition, sustainable fisheries, agriculture and urban policies will be promoted. Secondly, it calls for fundamental progress towards international peace and security: Japan and the European Union will work together to resolve conflicts through dialogue, to combat terrorism and the circulation of weapons, to cooperate in judicial matters and to strengthen their presence at sea and in cyberspace. Finally, the European countries and Japan are determined to take the path of economic development and the reduction of inequalities: we will coordinate our humanitarian and development aid policies more and better; we will facilitate the exchange of information and goods; we will increase our tourist, educational, sporting and cultural interactions. On the other hand, let us recall that the health context must not be an excuse to give reason to those who have always advocated withdrawal. The events we have been facing for the past year show us how essential international cooperation is to deal with the crises that the world is going through. However, our foreign policy makes sense only if it has irreproachable coherence. But some of the current actions of the Japanese authorities raise questions, particularly with regard to the shared custody of children of binational couples – you mentioned this problem, Secretary of State. In the absence of recognition of alternate custody, the sole custody of the children is entrusted to the Japanese parent, which undermines the right of access of the other parent. In doing so, Japan ignores the fundamental texts of the 1980 Hague Convention and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u80	... of which I recall article 7: "The child shall be registered immediately upon birth and shall have the right to a name, the right to acquire a nationality and, to the extent possible, the right to know his parents and to be brought up by them. » France and the European Union have called on the Japanese Government, through many diplomatic channels, to take action in this regard. In the same vein, a resolution was adopted in February 2020 by the Senate, and another in July by the European Parliament, unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen, this House would honour itself by highlighting this subject and putting it on the agenda of the debates in this House. This should lead us to wonder what place we wish to give to the rights of the child in our international commitments. We discussed this during the discussion of the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, Secretary of State, and I know your commitment on this point. Indeed, despite the commitments made by Japan in January 2020 in Brussels, no progress has been made. Therefore, the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement cannot be a way of letting the Japanese Government think that we are turning a blind eye to this issue. Clearly, the text we are studying must serve the consistency and integrity of our principles, not compromise them. It is therefore worth recalling that the application of this strategic agreement is conditional on respect for the rule of law and that, if it is not, it is possible to request a suspension. We must not exclude this possibility if Japan continues to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] It is with this reservation that the Action Together Group will vote in favour of the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement adopted in 2018 by the European Union and Japan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u81	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u82	Trade partnerships make sense when complemented by strategic partnerships that clarify the relationship framework. It is also a good way, in this particular case, to strengthen the legitimacy of the European Union as an actor in international politics. There have been many voices in recent months against the agreement signed with China last December. We can therefore only welcome the framework established here with our Japanese partners, which goes back to the importance of democracy, human rights, social rights and even the environment. But it is also important to mention the problems that currently exist between our countries and that can be encountered by our fellow citizens. Many of us have been asked about a subject that could affect us all: that of a breakdown or divorce. Indeed, when one of the parents is Japanese and the couple separates, it is extremely difficult for the other parent, whether French or any other nationality, to be able to see his child. That is why, Secretary of State, we would like you to be able to make commitments to resolve these situations or, at least, to help resolve them. No family deserves to suffer from legislative gaps. If we are capable of establishing commercial relations, we must be able to establish a framework of secure private international law. Turning back to the strategic agreement, the ongoing cooperation in the area of security and the fight against crime will be an important step forward, which it would certainly be interesting to reproduce in other agreements with our various partners. The exchange of passenger records, in particular, will be an issue to be monitored in its conciliation with the protection of personal data, and I hope that Parliament will be able to ensure effective follow-up on developments in practices. On the security side, I am pleased to see the importance of respecting the law of the sea, while the issue of territorial conflicts in the China Sea poses a threat of instability throughout the region of South-East Asia. At a time when China is singing of multilateralism opposed to the domination of a few, France and the European Union, historical defenders of a multilateral international order, cannot allow these new influencers to choose an international law à la carte. This region of Asia is indeed highly strategic. At a time when the Chinese giant wants to expand its influence through the new silk roads, we must not let this crossroads of world trade suffer the torments that could result from an escalation of territorial disputes. The conquests of islands, the construction of military bases or the pressure operations in this area, such as those observed last March around the Spratley Islands, must all be denounced to show that the international community is united. The increase in military budgets throughout the region must also alert us, as Japan is not left behind, since it has increased the funds it allocates to defence by 15 per cent in ten years. France is now the only country with an Indo-Pacific strategy, which essentially responds to the presence of more than one million French in this area. This subject should concern us all; It is therefore welcome that the United Kingdom or Germany should begin to refer to it. The region is complex and the issues are important. Although France will not blame a single actor, it will have to put itself on the right side. With regard to the social and environmental aspects of the agreement, I have heard criticisms, in committee and here, of the problems relating to gender equality, imports of rare timber or whaling. They should be taken into account in discussions. I am thinking in particular of whaling: although the latest statistics tend to show that there is less demand for this type of product, it is important to recall the vision of France and the European Union for whale protection. Perhaps the Japanese would also have actions to blame us, and we must take advantage of this kind of agreement to promote best practices together. It seems to me that the joint committee responsible for the living and evolving of this agreement must allow for these exchanges and, above all, help us in the mutual understanding of our societies. Since the IDU and independent group are committed to diplomacy based on cooperation and exchange, we will of course support this bill, bearing in mind what our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq said earlier: the most important is the road to peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u83	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u84	The purpose of this Strategic Partnership Agreement is to replace the 2001 Joint Action Plan between the European Union and Japan. It aims to strengthen cooperation between the parties in more than forty areas, including environment, security, judicial cooperation, science and technology. More specifically, it focuses on four objectives: the joint contribution of Japan and the European Union to peace; promoting the values and principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights; bilateral political cooperation within international organisations; intensifying meetings between the European Union and Japan on all subjects. Japan is an ally of France in the region, and we can only satisfy ourselves with such an agreement. As authoritarianism and nationalism develop alarmingly in the world, particularly in Asia, this strategic partnership agreement reaffirms our ties with a partner democracy. The European Union and Japan have close economic relations, and this text establishes the fact that this relationship is also based on shared values. Moreover, this agreement will strengthen the bilateral relationship between our two countries, knowing that Japan is already the leading Asian investor in France and is an important partner in several areas, including civil nuclear power. From the point of view of the Freedom and Territory Group, the affirmation of our relations with Japan is necessary in view of the geopolitical context in the Asia-Pacific region. A serious reversal of the world is taking place in front of us in the direction of Asia, and the Indo-Pacific region is becoming the new global economic and strategic heart. China, in particular, is advancing its pawns through land claims, the development of forcible infrastructure, and the taking of port concessions in the countries of the zone. It develops its influence and its financial and technological superiority in the region. Japan has theorized in 2007 the concept of free and open Indo-Pacific to safeguard these "seas of freedom" – according to the formula of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of the time. France is now the only European Union Member State present in the Pacific and the first country to adopt an Indo-Pacific strategy. The French doctrine of maritime freedom is perfectly consistent with that of Japan. Thus, France and the European Union must play a more important role in the area and favour allies with whom we share a foundation of common values. The quadrilateral security dialogue between India, the United States, Australia and Japan is increasingly taking place in the area. France, which has already shown its interest, and the European Union must take a greater part in this dialogue; A true strategy for the Indo-Pacific must be devised at EU level. To return to the bill under discussion, however, we wish to express a regret. Only this strategic partnership agreement is submitted to Parliament; the Economic Partnership Agreement, the JEFTA, however signed at the same time, will not be subject to ratification by the national parliaments. We find it rather problematic, if not regrettable, to be unable to comment on it on the pretext that economic policy is the exclusive competence of the EU, especially since the free trade agreements have a very important impact on the ground. JEFTA also has harmful stalemates on environmental issues, as Japan is engaged in large-scale illegal timber trafficking or whaling. The Assembly should have to decide on such an international agreement. The direct impact of globalisation on the daily lives of French companies and regions cannot be underestimated. The international agreements and the opening up of the economy bear in them seeds of peace and progress, but we wish to affirm once again that trade liberalization should only be decided in the light of the economic and social consequences it entails for the territories. In the end, despite these regrets, we will vote in favour of the ratification of the strategic partnership, because it strengthens the cooperation and defence of our common values with an allied democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u85	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u86	This has been demonstrated during this session – which we have done well: the strategic agreement also concerns developments in the Asia-Pacific region. Europe wants a powerful ally against China and seems ready for this to pay a high price, sometimes trampling on our common values: climate preservation and human rights. That's unfortunate. Anne Genetet introduced her speech by evoking cherry blossoms in Japan. Well, dear Anne, Japanese cherry trees have never been so early in 1200 years. This is obviously a sign of climate change, but also proof of the need to resume work on this agreement. At no time have you heard me say that we should not sign an agreement with Japan; I stressed the need to scrutinize our values, re-discuss them, modify them, adapt them to shape a high-quality agreement with Japan, in a positive spirit. All of us here wanted to deepen relations between our two countries; I share this will, but not under these conditions and not with this agreement. That is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u87	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u88	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 44 Against 9
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u89	[[Smile on the benches of the Commission and the Government]] If I had intervened again, it was good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u90	The MEPs have undoubtedly wanted to preserve the traffic in the port of Le Havre!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u91	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the framework agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part (No. 2450, 2698).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u92	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u93	The agreement between the European Union and Australia is another key text that confirms the major priority of the Indo-Pacific in French foreign policy. As I speak, Jean-Yves Le Drian is in India to work with our Indian and Australian partners. The bilateral relationship between France and Australia was strengthened by the strategic partnership concluded in 2012 and enhanced in 2017 following the choice of Naval Group for the construction of future Australian submarines – an industrial contract that binds us for several decades. This relationship is based on an old friendship and a common attachment to an international order based on rules, law and multilateralism. It was in Australia, on the occasion of his trip to Sydney in 2018, that the President of the Republic set the course for our strategy for the whole area. In a speech at Garden Island's naval base, he said: "We have the same concern about the risks and threats that go through the Indo-Pacific region: rivalries between powers, identity tensions, trafficking of all kinds that thrive on the lack of development largely related to climate change. He wanted to build a strong indo-pacific axis to guarantee our economic and security interests, and stressed that France must be the link between Australia and Europe. All our European partners are now convinced of the importance of the Indo-Pacific, both for Europe's prosperity and for the future of multilateralism. We believe that the European Union, in turn, needs to develop a strategy for the area in order to reinforce its commitment to it and to make known the many actions it is already undertaking there. Australia should of course be a major pillar. The partnership between the European Union and Australia is already strong: the meeting of the leaders held on 26 November 2020, which, among other things, addressed the issues of covid-19 and economic recovery, attests to this. On that occasion, both sides sent a strong message in favour of equitable access to vaccines and practical cooperation on safety issues. Australia has also deployed personnel to the European Union Advisory Mission (EUAM) in Iraq, illustrating this common concern. The European Union must defend its values and interests. This is, of course, valid for the agreement we are discussing, but since trade policy issues have been invited in the previous debate, and although the negotiation of such an agreement with Australia is taking place in a separate framework, I can see how much interest we have in this area too, in strengthening our ties and adopting a vision based on respect for the rules. We will therefore ensure that sustainable development and compliance with the Paris Agreement are essential elements of the negotiations, as is the case with the trade and cooperation agreement signed with the United Kingdom. It is important that national parliaments and civil society can assess this environmental and climate dimension. As for the agreement itself, it is...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u94	Bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u95	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... very similar to those negotiated with other countries such as New Zealand, since it also aims to promote the values that unite us and deepen cooperation on security, justice and freedom issues. This agreement consolidates several legal bases and, above all, reinforces the momentum that the President of the Republic has sought to inject into the relationship with Australia. The Government would therefore be very pleased if you adopted it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u96	Mrs Anne Genetet, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u97	Let me begin by welcoming Marielle de Sarnez's memory, before which I presented my report on 19 February 2020. Under his chairmanship, the Committee on Foreign Affairs then voted in favour of the adoption of this bill. Allow me also to express to the people of Australia my wish for a speedy recovery in the aftermath of the health crisis which also struck them; I know it's on the right track. But I regret the European Commission's blocking of exports of vaccines against coronavirus to Australia. The exit from the crisis will be global or not. A partnership with variable geometry does not seem to me to be consistent with the agreement that I will now present to you. But before that, let me take you there with this short poem, written in 1908 by the great Australian poet Dorothea Mackellar: I love a land burned by the sun, Land of vast plains, Chains of shredded mountains, Drought and floods. I love his distant horizons, I like the jewel of his sea, His beauty and terror The big brown land for me! Yes, this country is beautiful, this country is endearing. As a Member of Parliament for the French in Australia, New Zealand and other countries in the region, I also know the history with a great H, the strength of the ties that unite us and the values that we share. The European Union has already established multiple partnerships with Pacific island States, focusing on development, fisheries and climate change. It has also made the Pacific Islands Forum a focal point. Australia ratified this Framework Agreement on 4 September 2018; Our Australian partners, I can assure you, are eager to see us follow suit. Their ambassador, Mrs Gillian Bird, whom I greet, confirmed it to me when I met her yesterday. Recall that this is a so-called "mixed" agreement, i.e. an area of shared competence between the European Union and the Member States; It must therefore be ratified by national parliaments. The Minister stressed that the aim was to strengthen the legal basis and scope of the Union's relations with its Australian partner in a wide range of areas: innovation, training, education, culture, but also judicial cooperation, humanitarian aid, migration and asylum issues, and the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybercrime and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It must be well distinguished from the trade agreement under negotiation; the two agreements have no relation. Ratification of this Framework Agreement does not require or prevent the conclusion of a trade agreement. Then why is this agreement useful? Australians consider a strong European Union essential. Many Australian personalities I met highlighted their country's current dependence on its neighbours, including China. Australia remains Australia's leading economic partner, which is specifically seeking to reduce its dependence and prevent the harmful effects of a Chinese-American trade war. Australia therefore aims to diversify its partnerships and collaborations; The European Union must respond to these ambitions. For the latter, it is good to seek to strengthen the European presence in this immense and dynamic region of the Indo-Pacific zone, in particular by strengthening our ties with a partner and friend country such as Australia. All analysts agree that the Indo-Pacific region has already taken on, and will continue to take on, a major importance from the point of view of political and diplomatic influence and military power, to the point that has sometimes been referred to in this regard as "the changeover of the world". Finally, for France, Australia is a strategic partner, as illustrated by the displacement of the President of the Republic in May 2018, as well as his invitation, in August 2019, in his address to the conference of ambassadors, to " fully mobilize to build a French strategy on the Indo-Pacific axis". France is indeed the only Member State territorially present in the Oceania-Pacific zone since the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. I would add that the cooperation provided for in the agreement will strongly involve New Caledonia, which already has active regional diplomacy and whose ratification has not been opposed by Congress. Moreover, its status as a full member of the Pacific Islands Forum and the Pacific Community – which is not the case for the European Union – justifies the wish of the President of his Government to be part of political dialogue forums on foreign and security policy. What provisions contain more precisely this agreement? It formalises a dialogue that has so far been governed only by a simple partnership framework, adopted in October 2008, with no binding value. For example, Title II highlights the willingness of the parties to strengthen their dialogue, through regular consultations and exchanges, at the level of leaders or administrations. The following headings set out commitments for dialogue in a range of areas of cooperation: global development and humanitarian aid, economics, trade, justice, freedom and security, research, innovation and the information society, education and culture, and sustainable development, energy and transport. The Agreement provides for the existence of a dispute settlement mechanism to resolve possible difficulties in interpretation or application. But only a particularly serious violation of the provisions on democratic principles, human rights or fundamental freedoms could lead to the suspension of its application. The agreement includes many commitments in the areas of environmental protection, sustainable development, conservation of natural resources and biodiversity, protection of fauna and flora, sustainable forest management, and combating illegal fishing. Article 46 is devoted in particular to the recognition of the common global threat of climate change. The agreement contains a commitment "to work together to achieve an international climate agreement, solid, legally binding and applicable to all countries". This is an outline of what has become the Paris climate agreement, but the framework agreement does not mention the latter, as it was initialled before it was signed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u98	Damn, no luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u99	I would like to point out that, despite political turmoil, Australia's environmental awareness is real. Australia has a target of zero carbon emissions in 2050...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u100	Oh, here! Is that humor?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u101	... and I have seen myself that the fight against climate change, even if it is unevenly carried out, is a reality. For example, Mr. Lecoq, a quarter of Australia's electricity consumption is already from renewable energy sources. One in five Australian households have solar panels on their roof and have a battery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u102	There is also the largest coal mine in the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u103	Security and the promotion of peace are also central points of the agreement. It provides, for example, a framework for combating organised crime and corruption, cybercrime and money laundering. The agreement also opens up prospects for further cultural and scientific cooperation that will satisfy a need that has been communicated to me by French researchers present in Australia. Finally, the agreement recalls our common commitment to democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law. Australia and the European Union, in particular France, support multilateralism and the promotion of a rules-based international order. They have close positions on foreign policy issues, such as Ukraine, Russia, North Korea or the Middle East. At a time when the multilateral system is frequently shaken, they should intensify their cooperation in the face of challenges such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In conclusion, this Framework Agreement aims to promote the standards to which the European Union is committed at a time when they appear to be regularly threatened. Through its commitments to cooperation, it is faithful to the deep ties between Europe and Australia, the bonds embodied in the sacrifice of their lives made by many Australians on European battlefields during the two world wars. In a few days, 25 April, will be celebrated – including in France, in the Somme – the ANZAC Day, a day commemorating the engagement of Australian and New Zealand soldiers alongside us in the First World War. Let them be here, in this assembly, still very warmly thanked. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has wished to authorize the ratification of this partnership agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u104	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u105	On the report by our colleague Anne Genetet, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a year ago, on 19 February 2020, the bill authorizing the ratification of the framework agreement concluded on 7 August 2017 between the European Union and Australia. It aims to establish a strengthened partnership between the two parties and to encourage their dialogue in a wide range of areas of common interest: foreign policy, security, sustainable development, economy, environment, education and culture. It is not a trade agreement and should therefore be carefully distinguished from the negotiations, which are still under way, which tend to conclude a free trade agreement with Australia. The framework agreement we are discussing reaffirms shared principles: respect for democratic values, defence of the rule of law, support for the UN Charter and major international human rights instruments. It provides for the possible forms of dialogue between the parties: consultations, exchanges of views, technical meetings, sharing of good practices. It explicitly recognizes the challenges we face together, first and foremost the common global threat of climate change. This agreement is important because Europe cannot stay away from a region, the Asia-Pacific region, which is one of the most dynamic in the world. I would like to recall that last November fifteen countries in Asia and the Pacific signed a comprehensive regional economic partnership agreement: the ten ASEAN States, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, plus China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia. These States account for 30 per cent of world GDP and 30 per cent of the world population. I would also point out that the United Kingdom, for its part, is trying to maximize its influence and partnerships in the region, as part of its overall Britain strategy. In such a context, it is more imperative than ever for Europe not to allow its links with its main partners in the area, first and foremost Australia. For the European Union, it is not only a leading economic partner, but also a country with an old friendship: 70% of Australians have a European ancestor. We also know the moral debt we have owed to tens of thousands of Australian soldiers who died for our freedom during the first and second world wars. We share the same commitment to multilateralism, particularly with regard to foreign policy: let us remember that Australia has participated in many peacekeeping missions under the aegis of the United Nations, as well as in the coalition against Daesh. Our marines are fighting together against acts of piracy and terrorism in the Horn of Africa and the Indian Ocean. [[Ms AnneGenetet, rapporteur, and Ms CaroleBureau-Bonnardapplaudent]] That is to say, our ties are deep. This is particularly true for France, which is also a power of the Pacific. Our countries are called upon to cooperate closely in this area, which the President of the Republic had the opportunity, in August 2019, at the conference of ambassadors, to recall how strategic it was for the years to come. The agreement we are discussing today will provide France and its European partners with a framework to deepen their dialogue and cooperation with Australia and to promote to this friendly country the values and standards to which we are committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u106	In the general debate, Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u107	This agreement, which we discussed in committee more than a year ago, aims to renew the framework for relations between the European Union and Australia, so far governed by a partnership of no binding value adopted in 2008. It aims to encourage dialogue between the two sides in several areas: foreign policy, security, sustainable development, the economy, education and culture. France is very active in the Pacific, with three communities located near Australia: New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis-et-Futuna; More than 2 million French people live in the region and 8,000 military personnel are present in the area. Most importantly, from a maritime perspective, 93% of the French Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) is located in the Indo-Pacific. As a reminder, France has the world's second-largest exclusive economic zone, a real strategic wealth. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore welcomes the strengthening of our cooperation with Australia, and will support this agreement, despite some reservations. Cooperation in military matters, in the fight against terrorism and in the promotion of peace is particularly welcome. The strengthening of the European Union's cooperation with Australia is also important from a geopolitical point of view. The Australian economy is highly dependent on China, which accounts for a third of its exports. As Australia's second largest trading partner, the European Union will develop a partnership with Australia to reduce its dependence. However, we have a number of substantive comments to make. First of all, we are concerned about the possible impact of some aspects of the agreement on the environment. It should enable the European Union and Australia to preserve, manage and better protect natural resources and biodiversity as essential elements for the development of present and future generations. Essentially, cooperation in the exchange of information, technical expertise and environmental practices should enable them to achieve these objectives. It is regrettable that stronger commitments are not made to combat climate change and achieve more sustainable economic growth. The Framework Agreement makes no mention of the Paris Climate Agreement, which Australia has ratified. Above all, as the report points out, Australia's overall performance in combating global warming is "questionable". Indeed, the country is one of the largest polluters in the world in terms of greenhouse gas emissions per capita, particularly due to its mining industry. We also hope that this agreement, even if it does not have the scope of a free trade agreement, will not be detrimental to our territories, particularly in the agricultural sector. Very often, in fact, the examination of international agreements leads us to mention the problem. It is important that sensitive agricultural sectors, first and foremost beef and sheepmeat, but also special sugars, are not once again undermined by such agreements. Finally, we wish to convey the request of the Congress of New Caledonia, which wishes to be associated with the negotiation of future special agreements concerning its neighbourhood, when they relate to matters within its competence. The Congress wishes to be integrated into the political dialogue for foreign and security policy, given its status as a full member of the Pacific Islands Forum and the Pacific Community. The archipelago would also like to see a better definition of its possible role in supporting EU action in the Pacific, within the framework of global development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. In the end, this text poses significant problems, although it will allow for greater cooperation with a democratic country that shares with us a foundation of common values, in a region that will become increasingly unstable in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u108	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u109	This framework agreement aims to establish a strengthened partnership between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and Australia on the other. It renews and amplifies the momentum created by the 2008 agreement; It is complementary to the agreement with New Zealand adopted in 2019, for which I had the honour of being your rapporteur. Subsequently, a proposal for a European resolution on negotiations for the signing of two free trade agreements with Australia and New Zealand was adopted by the National Assembly. This text must therefore be distinguished from the ongoing negotiations for the conclusion of such an agreement; It does not provide for concessions in agricultural matters or preferential access to the common market. On the other hand, this framework agreement opens up considerable opportunities for cooperation in foreign policy, security, justice, research, economics, the environment, education and culture. It is therefore not a Trojan horse, but a symbol of a shared will to strengthen our alliance – an alliance based on the values that unite us with the Australians, solemnly reaffirmed in the preamble: respect for democratic values, defence of the rule of law, support for the United Nations Charter and other major international human rights instruments. The aim here is to enable the European Union to assert itself as a power of the Indo-Pacific space. This region is of major geostrategic importance; You have reminded us, Mr Secretary of State, that this is a fast-growing region, which accounts for more than a third of our trade outside the European Union. It is the gateway between the major demographic and economic groupings of the twenty-first century. The Member States of the Union must collectively commit themselves to defending their interests in an increasingly disputed area – attest to the recent tensions between France and China following the passage of the Vendémiaire frigate in the Taiwan Strait. France is a power of the Indo-Pacific zone, and intends to remain so thanks to many territories, a strong military settlement and an immense exclusive economic zone. From La Réunion to New Caledonia, from Mayotte to Wallis-et-Futuna and to French Polynesia, this region is a vital issue for us; Our country is the only Member State of the Union present in the region since the departure of the United Kingdom, and you have recalled, Madam rapporteur: we have a responsibility to strengthen the weight of Europe in this area, of which Australia is one of the main powers. Regional dynamics are structured by China's hegemonic strategy and Chinese-American rivalry; Australia is divided between its economic dependence on China and its alliance with the United States. Against the backdrop of tensions with Beijing, Canberra seeks to diversify its partnerships: our country must seize this opportunity. The Framework Agreement also provides a useful tool for addressing common challenges: piracy, illegal fishing, transnational crime, illegal immigration, jihadist terrorism. Global warming puts strong pressure on populations and exposes the entire area to a security risk. In this regard, I would like to point out that Australia participates in many peacekeeping missions under the aegis of the United Nations, as well as in the coalition against Daesh. Our national marines are fighting together against acts of piracy and terrorism in the Horn of Africa and the Indian Ocean. Environmental protection is the primary concern of Australians. We share a community of interest, a community of values. Under the leadership of the President of the Republic, France has moved closer to India and Australia; he described this strategic choice as "absolutely key" during his 2018 official visit. Faced with the Chinese hegemonic challenge, there is a real new geostrategic order. The forthcoming French Presidency of the European Union offers an opportunity to boost this enhanced cooperation with Australia. Finally, Australia is a friendly country: 70% of citizens have European origins and 70,000 of our compatriots live there. I greet them and their Member, our excellent rapporteur Anne Genetet. We, French, have a historic debt to the Australian people; Our embassy in Canberra welcomes the Franco-Australian memorial erected in 1961 by the government of General de Gaulle as a sign of gratitude to the tens of thousands of Australian soldiers, often very young, who fell so far from home, in France, on the battlefields between 1914 and 1918, and then during the Liberation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this bill, already adopted on 19 February 2020 by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u110	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u111	After defending before you the ratification of the strategic partnership between the European Union and Japan, I am again in this forum to defend on behalf of the Republicans Group the framework agreement with Australia. I am pleased to be able to do so, especially since I was not yet a member of the National Assembly when this agreement was discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in February 2020. As our rapporteur has done, I would point out that the text we are discussing today is a framework agreement aimed at establishing a stronger partnership between the European Union and Australia. As with the agreement we discussed earlier, it is a matter of encouraging dialogue on a very broad spectrum of common areas: political dialogue, security issues, international cooperation, economics and trade, justice, culture and education, energy and the environment. This framework agreement must be distinguished from the ongoing negotiations in order to reach the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the European Union and Australia, which is indeed difficult and complex. Could you, Secretary of State, give us a quick update on these negotiations, knowing that Australia is an important trading partner for the European Union? It is Australia's second largest trading partner, behind China and ahead of the United States and Japan. This is important to us since the free trade agreement under negotiation is not a joint agreement, and will therefore not be ratified by the parliaments of the Member States. The agreement we are examining today covers the entire spectrum of bilateral relations. It underlines the parties' willingness to dialogue and cooperate in many political fields – non-proliferation, the fight against climate change – economic – it also aims to promote bilateral exchanges – and in many sectors – education, culture, science, agriculture. It shall establish a Joint Committee for the implementation of the Agreement, which shall meet annually. It aims to enhance the effectiveness of the bilateral relationship by optimising political dialogue and improving cooperation on economic and trade issues, as well as in a wide range of other areas from innovation, education and culture to migration, combating terrorism, combating organised crime and cybercrime and judicial cooperation. Our rapporteur has described the various issues, I will not go back to them; On the other hand, I shall dwell on a few points which we consider important. At the time of Brexit, strengthening the links between the European Union and Australia is essential. The signing of a free trade agreement between the United Kingdom and Australia is also under way, and is progressing rapidly: the historical, cultural, political and economic ties between these two nations are no longer to be demonstrated. We must strengthen our relations with Australia, and this agreement contributes to it. During the examination in committee, several of our colleagues, including Bernard Deflesselles, who has been specifically following issues related to the fight against global warming for several years, stressed the complex, if not ambiguous, position of our Australian partner. We very much hope, with our rapporteur, that the establishment of this framework agreement will enable Australia to translate into action the real awareness of the Australian people, hard hit by the dramatic consequences of this warming. Everyone here remembers the terrible fires but also the floods on this continent. Finally, the bilateral relationship between France and Australia is rich and strong; It is not only based on geographical proximity in an area of major stakes. This relationship developed decisively with the announcement of Naval Group's choice for the construction of twelve ocean submarines, a market of 34 billion euros. The programme resulted in two intergovernmental treaties and an enhanced strategic partnership was signed by the two countries' foreign ministers in Melbourne in March 2017. Beyond the political-monetary dialogue and the existence of significant and expanding military and weapons cooperation, France and Australia discuss a wide range of issues, including the evolution of different theatres of operations – Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria. It is with Australia that France achieves its seventh trade surplus: €1.3 billion in 2017. More than 600 French companies employing 70000 people are located there, of which 35 are from the CAC40. French is the third most studied language in Australia, with 250,000 students, five French accredited schools and a network of thirty institutions of the Alliance Française. Because Australia is a friendly country with which we have long-standing and privileged relations that need to be supported and strengthened, the Republicans will vote for the ratification of this framework agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u112	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u113	The framework agreement which we are asked to vote on was concluded on 7 August 2017 between the European Union and Australia. This text, based on strong and old historical relations, is based on values to which I am very attached: respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Two partners committed to common objectives, including multilateral conflict resolution, have signed the agreement; They are mainly two main players in the ecological transition. This agreement is part of a changing geopolitical context: in our world of authoritarianism, where extremes continue to rise, the values reinforced by this text must be reaffirmed more than ever. In my capacity as draftsman of the budget programme "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence", I believe that this text addresses key areas: research and innovation, education, training, culture and the environment – the figures have now been recalled by my colleague. I would also remind you of a subject that we often have at the Foreign Affairs Committee: Australian public television, since it considers Australia to be a country of immigration, broadcasts in twenty-nine languages. French researchers expect much from this agreement; its ratification could be an opportunity to set up a joint unit of French research institute abroad (UMIFRE), of which Oceania is totally lacking today, while these structures – I must remember because I regularly audition their representatives – are a real instrument of scientific diplomacy. This agreement will strengthen the educational excellence common to both our countries. As we all know, Australia attracts many young people every year, including more than 300,000 foreign students, placing the country in third place among the students' preferred study destinations, just ahead of France. It also seems necessary to recall France's cultural influence on this country. Our network of French education abroad has four schools and our language is the first European language – not to mention English – taught in Australian schools. This text will therefore contribute to the spread of European and French culture in this region. Finally, at a time when our assembly is debating the climate and resilience bill, this framework agreement represents an ecological turning point for our two countries. When we studied this text in committee, the fires ravaged Australia. The agreement is working to secure the commitments of both parties, in particular those of Australia, which, unfortunately, we have seen in recent years, faces the consequences of global warming, including devastating forest fires. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] This ambitious agreement will feed into our future trade with Australia, a country where our interests are certain. It is essential that France and Europe affirm their presence in this area. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u114	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u115	As I did in committee, I thank the rapporteur for having informed us about this framework agreement. Once it is not customary: it exceeds thorny and controversial commercial dimensions and forced free trade. Such agreements – including elements of cooperation in the humanitarian field, but also in the areas of justice, security, research, education, culture or sustainable development – should always precede free trade agreements, which the European Commission too often seeks to impose on us. This was stressed: the fact that France is a power of the Pacific, thanks to its overseas departments and territories located in the region, makes this cooperation with Australia particularly relevant. You indicate that the Australian environmental consciousness is real...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u116	They don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u117	...in spite of political turmoil. I would like to go back to the latter: recently, the Australian Prime Minister – as well as other heads of government – has refused to accept any economic turn in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u119	Australian coal exports, particularly to China, result in 7% of global carbon emissions. Australia's carbon footprint per capita remains one of the strongest in the world; In considering this text in committee, my colleague Jérôme Lambert also pointed out to you that it is, among the Western countries, the first emitter of greenhouse gases per capita, even though in recent years there has been a slight inflection of this figure. The President of the Republic has said, it seems to me, that he wants all the new agreements to have a link with the Paris Agreement: Australia is far from following this logic. It is therefore necessary to remain vigilant on this point. However, like our colleagues in the European Parliament, we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u120	Your speech lasted less than five minutes. If you want to give the rest of your time, no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u121	The time for speech is unmissable, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u122	The Rules of Procedure do not specify this, Mr President, and anything that is not prohibited is allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u123	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u124	This morning we have before us a bill authorizing the ratification of the framework agreement concluded on 7 August 2017 between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other. This year we celebrate fifty-nine years of cooperation and diplomatic relations between Australia and the Union: their strong relationship, based on old and deep relationships, as well as on common values and interests – such as respect for democracy and human rights and equality between women and men – has seen a new dynamism in recent years. The framework agreement aims to encourage cooperation in a wide range of areas: international security, global development and humanitarian aid, economy and trade, justice, freedoms, security, research and innovation, education and culture, sustainable development, energy, transport, agriculture, fisheries, forest conservation, employment, health. It should also enable the European Union to consolidate its presence in the vast Asia-Pacific region, where Australia is both a natural ally of the Union and an important player in a region seeking stability and partnerships. On the other hand, both sides reaffirm their willingness to cooperate in the fight against climate change, whose environmental and economic impact on Australia is considerable. We all still remember the impressive, uncontrollable fires that dramatically bruised Australians at the end of 2019. We can only welcome Australia's current efforts to provide financial support to the Pacific region and vulnerable developing countries in a manner consistent with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 17, which promotes effective partnerships between Governments, the private sector and civil society at the global, regional, national and local levels. While there are still differences of approach, particularly regarding social norms in labour law, let us not forget that the French presence in the Indo-Pacific region – thanks to New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis-et-Futuna – is considered by Australia as an important factor of stability. In this regard, we must encourage a strategic rapprochement that will promote this stability, as well as freedom of navigation, within this crucial international maritime zone. This framework agreement is therefore necessary in that it aims to promote standards to which European peoples are attached, at a time and in a region where they may be threatened. [[Applause on the banks of the Agirens Group, on the Commission's banks]] Therefore, the Action Together group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u125	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u126	France is a power of the Pacific, if only because it includes territories: New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis-et-Futuna. More than 1.5 million French people live in the region; More than 8,000 military personnel are stationed there. We owe it to these territories to be the world's second largest maritime power and the only member of the European Union, since the departure of the United Kingdom, present in the Oceania-Pacific zone. Among the members of the IDU and independent group are the deputies of New Caledonia – Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès – as well as a deputy of French Polynesia, Nicole Sanquer: I represent them today. That is the importance of this area, and therefore of the framework agreement, not only for our country, but for Parliament and especially for our group. This agreement is a key vehicle for renewing the partnership framework adopted by the European Union and Australia more than 10 years ago. It will also allow us to deepen our relations in order to better address the global challenges of foreign policy, security, sustainable development, climate change, economics and trade. It reflects the European Union's desire to place greater emphasis on political and security issues in Asia-Oceania. Given that Australia is heavily dependent on its neighbours, China in particular, it is essential that the Union strengthen its presence in this area, in particular in order to avoid violations of our maritime sovereignty. By its geographical location and the strength of its ties with Australia, New Caledonia will be one of the territories most affected by the cooperation provided for in the Agreement; It is very active in the region and already has delegates in Canberra, such as Vanuatu, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. We can therefore only support the wish expressed by the Government of New Caledonia, in its opinion, to be represented in the political dialogue for foreign and security policy in its capacity as a full member of the Pacific Islands Forum and the Pacific Community. In this region, two topics are of particular interest to us: cooperation in higher education and in the fight against climate change. On the one hand, we would like to see the further promotion of French and Australian training, including international education, through Campus France; We want to encourage the mobility of young people, but also of professionals in training and higher education. Caledonians and Polynesians must be given privileged access to this mechanism. On the other hand, Australia and New Caledonia share the largest coral groupings on the planet: the preservation of this treasure must be at the heart of environmental policies. Our Pacific territories are most vulnerable to the major risks posed by climate change. They are home to exceptional biodiversity and constitute 60% of France's maritime surface. Thanks to French Polynesia, New Caledonia, Wallis-et-Futuna, France holds the second largest EEZ in the world: a total of 11 million square kilometres! Australia is only third. Therefore, we want these territories to be involved in all negotiations on combating climate change. Finally, this framework agreement must be part of the development of the Indo-Pacific strategy. It is necessary for France to play its full role in the region, i.e. a leading role for its European partners. Ratification of this agreement is crucial, as this area is a priority of our foreign policy and influence strategy. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u127	On the single article of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u128	It seemed obvious to the Members of the GDR Group to ask for a debate on the Australian question, as it had posed a problem to us all in committee – we must remember – particularly with regard to the ecological aspect of this framework agreement. First of all, this agreement is in line with the one that has been concluded since then with Japan, which we discussed earlier. It conceals a free trade agreement in preparation: that would be enough to make it unacceptable. Secondly, the depth of the differences between Europeans and Australians on such important issues as health must be measured. In 2017, for example, which is not so old, Australia filed a complaint against the European Union with the WTO, considering that European standards for endocrine disruptors resulted in a shortfall of €75 billion for Australian manufacturers. In 2019, together with other countries, this time it was attacking European regulations on pesticides, still within the WTO. How can the Union view Australia as a partner when it attacks its most useful standards? Added to this is the subject of ecology. Communist MEPs will not approve an agreement presented as ecological with one of the governments that most deeply despises the cause of the climate. None of those in this House who want a real ecological transition can approve it! We must weigh things well: in each agreement, we wonder whether it will have the effect of drawing the signatories up, or of establishing a status quo, or even countering their ambitions on certain subjects. The Communist MEPs sincerely believe that this framework agreement with Australia is in the final case. Nothing obliges the parties to denounce it in case of ecological abuse. We commit ourselves to a country with an energy mix of 70% coal, vis-à-vis the eighth global emitter of greenhouse gases per capita, not to mention the infamous Carmichael project – a giant mine that will be mined each year, for sixty years, nearly 30 million tonnes of coal, at a rate of nearly 12 million tonnes of CO emitted each year, or 32 tonnes per day. In these circumstances, achieving the climate targets for 2050 will not be easy! Moreover, this production will be entirely exported, thanks to a built port near the Great Barrier Reef, hence high risks to the marine biodiversity of this area, among the most important and fragile. I would also like to recall that the Grande Barrière is a World Heritage Site.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u129	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u130	You just closed the Le Havre thermal power plant, pretending to save the planet, and you let it happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u131	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u132	It's not serious! I remind you of what I said in committee on 19 February 2020: that you should remember at the time of the vote that the President of the Republic had committed himself to no longer sign agreements where the Paris Agreement is not included, which is not the case. You then told me that it had been negotiated before the conclusion of the Paris Agreement. Of course! In this case, why not renegotiate it to include these new commitments? As Australia is also a party to the Paris Agreement, we were supposedly in agreement, and that would have allowed us to comply with the President's ambitions, which, for once, are not meaningless. In fact, even the majority hardly gives the impression of believing in Australia's commitment to the Paris Agreement: at the same meeting in committee, the rapporteur, you said that we could "question its implementation". Indeed, not only does the framework agreement not mention the Paris Agreement, but, by decortising it, we can see how it is oriented. [[Mr. Bastien Lachaud laughs]] We find zero times the word "ecology", only once the word "biodiversity" and twenty-four times the word "environment" – but it is sometimes associated with adjectives such as "economic" or "security". Facing this, we find fifty-four times the word "trade" or "commercial", thirty-four times the word "economy", twenty-eight times the word "terrorism" and thirty-eight times the word "security"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u133	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u134	This count, which I had done in committee, says a lot about the ambition of the text! I hope that it will be useful to you at the time of the final vote. A year ago, you were uncomfortable voting this deal after mega-fires broke out in Australia and the evidence of climate disruption and inaction in this country. Will you still be able to vote today, after the mega-floods that took place this year? We are at the heart of the climate debate. If you are really convinced that we must act for the climate, you will reject this obsolete text, like the Communist Members, to review the copy in the direction of better cooperation with our Australian friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u135	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u136	We are being asked to ratify a framework cooperation agreement between the European Union and Australia. At first glance, we cannot be opposed to this: our relations with the Australian people are marked by friendship. We even remember that Australian soldiers lost their lives in France during the first and second world conflicts. As for the word "cooperation", it is very beautiful when it is given all its meaning by proposing to do common work or better, in common. This is done to please the Insoumis, whose political program is called "The Common Future". However, it must be admitted that the account will not be there. The trick is fanned: we only know too much when Brussels says "cooperation", it actually thinks "trade" or more precisely "business". This is the main issue of this text: it is the counterpart of a trade agreement that it serves to make more acceptable. Here, we list the pious wishes that will make us forget that the fundamental factors of the ecological disaster are absolutely not called into question by the kind of "cooperation" that we are being offered. Free trade, the intensification of financial trade, the blind promotion of privatization within international bodies, first and foremost the WTO: this is the real soup that we still want to swallow. Of course, it would be too bitter if we did not conceal the true intentions behind sweet generalities. The signatory parties want universal peace and harmony, preservation of the environment, etc. I'm sorry to tell you, but this kind of diversion has no kind of consequence. Have you heard of the revival of the Australian economy by gas? Do you believe for a moment that it is compatible with the objectives of the Paris agreements? Yet, even if they were achieved, these goals would not be enough to avoid disasters for many Pacific islands, whose Australian friends receive refugees with a very similar hostility to that which the European institutions and our government are committing to the exiles and climate refugees who are at risk of dying in the Mediterranean. I fear that the humanist protests in your treaty will make this sad reality forget. I affirm that nothing should be expected from this agreement. As if Brussels could give concrete content to the poncives of the good liberal conscience! The most blind bureaucrats, the thurifers of austerity, those for whom there is no democracy outside the treaties, as Jean-Claude Juncker said, will never implement any cooperation that would aim at the general human interest. That is what we need: to work with the peoples of the world for concrete achievements that serve humanity as a whole. For this, we do not need the authorisation of the European Union. It is so easy to make the sharing of knowledge, cultural exchanges and everything that really advances humanity in a bilateral framework flourish. It is in this context that we are trading arms with Australia. I don't complain about it: I like it a hundred times better that our submarines are sold to democratic Australia than our cannons to Saudi Arabia and the killer who reigns over it. But admit that we could see larger and make the ocean the object of a partnership far more exciting and useful than the mortifying, indeed mortifying, count of our trade balances. This is what this agreement should tell us and that it will never say: put the package to save the Great Barrier Reef, to identify and protect the species it harbours, to explore the seabed, to fight against plastic pollution, to protect the endemic species of the island-continent, to think together about how to prevent new gigantic fires from ravaging it! This agreement does not say "put your knowledge together" or "receive each student from the other side of the world," it says over and over again, "harmonize the knowledge market to be competitive if your investment in human capital is to grow. » In fact, this framework agreement does not fit into anything. It is already out of date; his lack of ambition betrays him. For the environment, he proposes that signatories learn together to "promote prevention, risk mitigation, disaster preparedness and response in order to increase the resilience of societies and infrastructure". He does not even conjure her, he abdicates to the certainty of disasters. And what about the promotion that he claims to be making of peace when, in reality, everyone already knows that he is witnessing Washington's new obsession with China as closely as possible? In short, the greyness of this text makes you think that it could be adopted by a simplified procedure without even hearing what it inspires us from weariness and vexation. Well, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u137	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u138	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 51 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u139	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of two bills authorizing the approval of international conventions and agreements (Nos. 2745, 4031; 3245, 4050). These texts have not been the subject of any amendments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u140	And because we can't amend them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u141	... I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u142	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law for a new security pact that respects freedoms (No 3452, 4030).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u143	Mr Jean-Michel Fauvergue, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u144	The security offered to French and French people will now be global or not. This development is essential as the security landscape of our country has changed since the beginning of our century. However, it remains a certainty that resists this generalized movement: insecurity strikes above all and the most severely disadvantaged, and it is to do social work to offer to these, as to all others, a soothing environment. The proposed law on comprehensive security that preserves freedoms pursues this goal. It is the result of successful parliamentary work. The outline of this founding text was clarified by the report entitled "From a security continuum to global security" which Alice Thourot and I drafted following a six-month mission entrusted to us by the Prime Minister. On this occasion, 217 hearings and meetings and some 30 trips resulted in 78 proposals. Most of these proposals fall within the legislative area and form the basis of the text before you today. This bill, tabled by the groups The Republic on the move and Acting together, has been enriched by the reflections and amendments of all of you, on almost every bench, as well as of the Minister of the Interior and his team, whom I thank very much. She was rewarded with exceptional support at first reading here – remember. The Senate has not been left behind. Its president, in the joy of a joint negotiation of good manners, allowed himself to be grayed out by the sweet euphoria of a victory claimed without nuance and without division. From now on, the municipal police are registering with new and important powers and technical means in the daily security of the French. They will have, in the context of an experiment, more legal attributions exercised in direct connection and under the supervision of the public prosecutor. The text also allows the publishers to organize themselves better within the framework of intercommunality, which they had been demanding for a long time. The creation of a municipal police force requested by all candidates in the last elections will now be possible in Paris; This is a great step forward for the inhabitants of the capital. For the first time, we will also have a large regulatory text for the private security sector. I'll let Alice Thourot detail these great advances, but I had to point it out. We could not legislate on global security without taking into account the modern techniques and means available to law enforcement and, above all, without improving the legal and judicial protection of those who look after us. We wanted to better protect those who protect us; We owe it to them. The automatic remission of sentences is reviewed and seriously reduced for those who would attack the representatives of the authority. It was a promise of the President of the Republic and the Minister of the Interior; Here she is held. I would like to say a word about article 24, which has occupied so many people in recent months. After our first vote, we made a commitment to rewrite it with the Chair of the Law Committee, and your two rapporteurs consulted many experts, eminent experts in legism, who of course, like all the experts who respect each other – as we know from the beginning of the health crisis – did not agree about anything, except on the point of maintaining this article, of incorporating it into the penal code rather than the 1881 law and of adapting the penalties to that of article 18 of the draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic. All of these prerequisites have been respected in the drafting of the Senators' Rapporteurs. It has therefore been quite easy and, to say the least, quite quick to agree on this new version. [[Mr. Thomas Rudigoz applauds]] I cannot conclude without thanking very warmly my co-rapporteur Alice Thourot, who has been so involved in this great adventure, and to whom we owe very much the good result. I also thank all the collaborators of the National Assembly and the group: thank you very much to them for their incredible skills and their availability. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the César of lobbying be awarded to particularly active friends, I have of course appointed the rural guards. There is not a Member of Parliament, not a senator who has not received an email or a proposed amendment from them: they are quoted on almost every page of the text. They deserve it well because they embody the friendly and effective image of our territories and our rural life. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are like other security actors, national police, national gendarmes, municipal police, private security officers, with new powers. Let them make the best use of it for the sake of the safety of French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u145	Mrs Alice Thourot, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u146	It is with a little emotion, it is true, that I see the work undertaken with Jean-Michel Fauvergue three years ago completed today. The Joint Joint Committee has been a success and we propose that you adopt its conclusions. In many respects, the Senate's work has respected and enriched the balances and objectives that we set out in the bill adopted at first reading in the National Assembly. The CMP was therefore able to adopt the solutions of a good compromise, which I will present to you with the main advances. In section 6, we rewritten the provisions on the obligation to reimburse costs incurred for the training of a municipal police officer who would leave the commune before the end of his commitment to serve. The aim is to strengthen individual accountability. As far as private security is concerned, we have agreed on very balanced drafting. I am convinced of the need for a break-up between the various security circles and the provisions that we propose to you to set the stage for a relationship of trust with the private security sector, I am thinking in particular of those governing subcontracting. On this point, we have endeavoured to seek and respect a balance between the need for better supervision and the freedom to undertake. This is the first attempt of the legislator to combat the abuse of subcontracting in this sector, abuses that gangrene an entire profession and that precarise many agents, mostly self-entrepreneurs. I would also mention the publicity of the most serious sanctions that can be imposed by the National Council for Private Security Activities (CNAPS), as well as the increase in the penalties for violence against private security officers. The CMP mainly amended three articles under the private security title. In Article 8(b) it reintroduced a provision allowing the CNAPS to impose a financial penalty against employees who have failed to comply with their legal or ethical obligations. It then rewritten part of section 9 to provide for the automatic publication of the temporary prohibition on the CNAPS site. In Article 10 concerning the ethical obligations of employees, we have preferred the drafting of leave it to the local commissions to assess whether convictions recorded in the criminal record are incompatible with the exercise of a function in the private security sector. Furthermore, on the issue of images and video protection, we have adopted in CMP guarantees that I find important. We also had a divergence of views on the use of drones by municipal police. As you know, I was clearly unfavorable; Nevertheless, I have heard the reasons for considering another choice. I have therefore proposed a more supervised and better evaluated experiment, based on what has been implemented in Article 1. Also on the subject of video protection, we have found compromise versions for the monitoring of buildings and public transport places: we are moving towards greater efficiency in the respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. A few words, perhaps the most important, to thank all those who contributed to this legislative epic. Thank you first to Jean-Michel Fauvergue for this common work and for all these moments, strong for some, shared over the last three years; Thank you to the current Prime Minister and his predecessor, Édouard Philippe, who entrusted us with this mission on the security continuum; thanks to Gérald Darmanin, Minister of the Interior, for his commitment to our text, to Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Law Commission for his valuable support, to Christophe Castaner for his trust. Thank you, Members of all sides who, by your amendments, have enriched this text. I would like to thank you very sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, for the quality of the debates we have had in committee and in the Chamber, in a particular context. Thank you also to those who have worked in the shadows, but whose work as remarkable as considerable is now highlighted: at the National Assembly, on the court side, the administrators and group collaborators and, on the garden side, the team of the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, I will have a special thought for my parliamentary team. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is therefore, as you have understood, an excellent compromise on our bill that we invite you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u147	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u148	I would also like to pay tribute to the work of a republican union between the House and the Senate, which, after very many hearings, resulted in this high-quality text, a text that comes from far, as you said, rapporteur, rapporteur, you, whose work I also welcome. Its common-sense philosophy aimed at improving the security continuum very concretely, based on the principle that everyone contributes to security, although, of course, the great sovereign powers related to the maintenance of public order remain and must remain the prerogative of the State. Thanks to a compromise, both chambers have reached a text that does not lose its force. It is first and foremost a text of trust. Trust in municipal police officers: they will now be able to access certain files, be endowed with prerogatives which are the responsibility of the judiciary, supervised by the latter, and carry out new types of more concrete actions on the ground – let us think in particular of the provision added in session to allow them to use "stop stick" harrows which they were not entitled to deploy even when they carry out road checks. Trust in mayors, too, who are the first to contribute to the security of our fellow citizens by their intelligence, by their information, by their actions, by their work of explaining directly with the gendarmerie or the national police. Trust in the city hall of Paris: for the first time since the Commune, the National Assembly, the Senate and the Government give it the opportunity to establish a municipal police. This historic meeting corresponds to the normal evolution of the status of Paris in the mechanism of action of the Government of the Republic. It is also the result of the compromise we reached with the Mayor of Paris, whom I would like to pay tribute to having worked on the intelligence of this new situation. Trust in police and gendarmes, too often criticized. It should be remembered that they intervene as urgentists when the situation could not be solved by anyone: by the public authorities, by the education of parents, by national education, by vocational training, by employment, by capitalism, by land-use planning, by urban planning, by housing, by structures taking into account social difficulties. And often they intervene in conflict situations by using the legitimate violence that the State has willingly allowed them to monopolize. Yes, this text, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, is a text that reaffirms confidence without "but" or quotes to the police and gendarmes, the pillars of our Republic, because they are the ones who, by imposing public order in accordance with the law, allow freedom. Trust also in private security, an economic sector that must be taken seriously – what you are doing, Madam rapporteur. It must be helped to structure itself and avoid making mistakes in youth, such as the excessive use of subcontracting. You have therefore been willing to acknowledge the importance of this sector by laying down new and absolutely fundamental rules which will undoubtedly help to make it a back-up force. You have made sure, within the framework of the law, to give its agents the credit they deserve and to strengthen their professionalization. Trust, finally, in the technological means. You have done a useful job by agreeing to legislate, ladies and gentlemen, on the use of pedestrian cameras and cameras and on the mutualization of these devices in rural communes or groups of communes, which makes it possible to combat crime. With regard to the use of modern technological means such as drones, you have been able to answer, from an administrative and judicial point of view, the question posed by the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL), which considered that the legislator had not exhausted its competence a few weeks ago. That's it: drones will be able to fly tomorrow to better protect our fellow citizens. It is a text of confidence but also a text of firmness. Closeness against irresponsible behaviour on the road: we greatly simplify controls on the use of drugs and alcohol. Every day, every week, every month, every year, road crimes kill far too many people and ruin the lives of entire families. The legislative simplification that you have carried out will actually save lives. Firm in the fight against fraud in transport, which often leads to crime, thanks to several provisions that Parliament and Government jointly defend. Firm against attacks against police and gendarmes. Too many different facts show the police stations and gendarmerie brigades targeted by fireworks mortars. You have done useful work by penalizing their use as weapons by destination and regulating their sales. Firmness towards the irresponsible behaviour of a very active population, albeit a minority of course, against the police and gendarmes. Of course, Article 24 has given rise to noise, sometimes fury or misunderstanding, but I am very pleased to see that at the end of these parliamentary discussions, there is still one. It aims to protect police and gendarmes. As soon as last night, we discovered in Epinay-sur-Seine that photos of police officers with their wives and families were stored in building halls, so the dealers told them: we know who you are, we know your family. This is a clear threat. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] I mean, these acts of disclosure of evidence identifying police officers and gendarmes and their relatives, on physical or digital media, are highly reprehensible acts that must be condemned. It would have been a shame for the Republic not to protect these policemen and gendarmes. They are the children of the Republic and they must be protected because they protect us on a daily basis. By voting on this text, resulting from an intelligent compromise between the Senate and your chamber, we will now have the opportunity to pursue as effectively as possible all those who want to threaten them. Yes, security is a good word: it allows the freedom of our fellow citizens; No, it is not an instrument of the Government. The police are the police of the Republic; It applies the law passed by the legislator, which derives its legitimacy from free, competitive and transparent elections. If we refuse to give our police, our gendarmerie, the pillars of our country, the means to intervene, if we refuse to protect them, if we refuse to allow them to collaborate with the other services, the municipal police, the private security agents, the elected representatives of the Republic, then we risk weakening our institutional and democratic system which has made France, through the vicissitudes of history, one of the largest and most beautiful countries in the world. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Madam rapporteur, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy and very proud of the work we have done together, and I would like once again to welcome the consideration for the general interest which has led to this political compromise and the effectiveness with which we will apply this law of the Republic since the implementing decrees are being drafted pending the final vote of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u149	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u150	I move this motion to reject beforehand, as our opposition to this text remains global. I note in passing that with some form of malice it has changed its name and that it is no longer called "global security" but "new security pact respecting freedoms." »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u151	No, the title has changed again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u152	I know you've changed it since then. But that should put the chip in our ear. Why, indeed, speak of security respecting freedoms? Because freedoms are the central subject of your text, which is not intended to improve the means of the police and the gendarmerie, but to restrict the individual and fundamental freedoms of the French and lead to a situation of mass surveillance. In fact, this objective takes on a great deal of space since you offer all possible and imaginable ways of filming, capturing, transmitting and analyzing the images in question. The original objective of the bill – apart from the articles added at the minister's request – is to blur the differences between municipal police, national police and private security officers in what you call a security continuum, where we would rather need coordination and clearly defined and separate missions. Then, with the additions of the minister, this text serves the demands of the most extremist police corporations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u153	Are you referring to trade unions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u154	... who see no problem in the National Police, no problem in the Ministry of the Interior except that of the people who surround them, delimiting in some way two camps: that of the National Police and the Ministry of the Interior, on the one hand, and all the others, on the other. No, it's not my conception of a republican national police; It is part of society and there are not two camps in this country. I heard the minister say that the police were just applying the law that we are voting on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u155	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u156	However, sometimes enforcement may seem a bit strange. For example, recently, the police prefect prohibited, because the law allows him to do so, the holding of a demonstration in the vicinity of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u158	...the consequences of verbalizing parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u159	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u160	[[Smile]] ...not even that of France, which is frankly unfair because there was one! – and to mobilize police officers to prevent this demonstration from passing. I have not seen any kind of explanation from the minister, any kind of excuses other than the reminder of the Speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u161	Parliamentarians respect the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u162	The prefect has banned this demonstration because the law allows it; But the law also provides that not everything can be prohibited as it pleases and that remedies exist. It was therefore necessary to bring the case before the administrative court, which annulled the ban on demonstrations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u163	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u164	... thus demonstrating that those who were present and gathered peacefully were right to do so. That is why I urge you to take a very close look at what we are going to vote on, because the practical application of these provisions can lead to such situations where margins of progress exist before having a republican national police force, failing to have a minister who is convinced of it. It is a text of escalation since we are invited to strengthen the means of repression towards the French and French. But we must not fear the people! That is not the political objective we should pursue. Besides, in view of the many demonstrations that have taken place – while containment measures have been introduced and the pandemic is raging – you have thought that it would be necessary to launch a Beauvau of security, because your text does not solve all the problems. No, it does not address the fundamental problems facing police and police officers and citizens as a general rule. I found that section 24 had been amended. We are told that the text is now a new security pact that respects freedoms, to take up the title of the title. Frankly, to increase from a year in prison and from 45,000 euros in fine to five years in prison and 75,000 euros in fine for roughly the same facts, I don't know if it's more respectful! By inserting this provision in the Criminal Code, the situation remains unchanged: a police officer may, from his own analysis, interrogate a person during a demonstration, confiscate his equipment and conduct police custody; I hope that justice will then free her, since, in many cases, no provocation will have been committed. You mentioned, Mr. Minister, photos of police officers with their spouses who were displayed in building halls to intimidate them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u165	You're condemning him?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u166	I strongly condemn him, of course! But what I condemn, Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u167	Of course, there's one butt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u168	...it's that you don't find anything to do in the circumstances! Do we have to wait until we vote for you to act and protect the police officers in question? Is that what you're saying? Of course, you do not say it explicitly, because in the state of the law you have the means to act...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u169	It hurts you! That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u170	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...and that you do not know how to defend the forces of law and order; That's the reality. If you do not know how to do it, leave your place, I would gladly take it, as I have said on several occasions, and with great pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u171	The problem is, you have to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u172	Is that a putsch? Are we in Venezuela?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u173	In this comprehensive safety text, surveillance is widespread. By the way, we are told that facial recognition will not be possible. However, there is nothing to prevent algorithmic treatment; Nor will anything prevent obtaining facial recognition with other means of capturing images, since only drones are affected by this ban introduced by the Senate. Of course, I can't stop in such a good way...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u174	No, of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u175	... and not to note the slight amendment to Article 15 of the original bill, which provides that a retired police officer may accumulate full remuneration in the private security sector in this case, unlike all other officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u176	Work more to earn more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u177	[[Matthieu Orphelinapplaudited.–Protests on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It's amazing, what a privilege! I note that our colleague Jean-Michel Fauvergue thus ensures a very interesting retreat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u178	You've already reported me to the Canardenchainé and it didn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u179	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u180	It should be stressed, however, that there is a register of deportations in the National Assembly, which means that when one is concerned by a measure, one is supposed to stay away and not vote for it. I note that ethics is not at the heart of the text...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u181	That's pathetic! Don't attack people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u182	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u183	Mr. President, he's attacking me directly! I would like to make a point of order. It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u184	You will make a point of order after the motion is presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u185	What police do we want? We want the police to have confidence in the citizens and the citizens to have confidence in the police. But if police officers and police officers are to be respected, they must be respectable themselves! It is not I who say it, the minister has already done it, as well as colleagues on these benches, especially after the Zecler affair which shocked – and continues to shock – the whole of France. That is why, if you want to get to the end of the interference between the municipal police and the national police, we propose to merge them and integrate the municipal police with the national police in order to deploy, throughout the territory, a republican local police force: to re-establish the islet, to resettle local police stations and to have a number of police officers in line with local problems. Some municipalities spend thousands of euros on municipal police, while others do not have the same issues and the right to security, in any case from the point of view of citizens. But that's not what you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u186	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u187	We also propose to put an end to the number policy – it makes me weird to say it because I saw five ministers passing, who all said that the number policy was over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u188	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u189	No, you didn't say anything, Mr.Minister, and you're doing well to remind us of that, since you're the one who brought this policy back to your liking, with the monthly publication of the figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u190	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u191	Moreover, it is not always very glorious: when crime increases, you declare that more means are needed to prosecute it – it is never your fault – and when it falls, it is thanks to you! It's still strange as a political situation: you're good at every blow, it's smart, I recognize it! We must put an end to this policy of the figure that gangens police activity. I interviewed police officers to find out why they systematically place people in police custody and do not conduct free hearings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u192	Are there any police officers talking to you again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u193	They tell me they're doing this because it adds a stick to the list and it's counted as police activity;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u194	I'd like to be welcomed to the Lille police station!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u195	Otherwise, we'd feel like they're doing nothing! That's where we're headed because of your number policy! [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] The General Inspection of the National Police (IGPN) will have to be dissolved in order for a real control of the national police to be exercised in its own interest, as is the case in England, whose model is interesting to examine and, why not, to decline in France. The anti-criminality brigades (BACs) will have to be dissolved – a trial has just begun on the actions of members of one of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u196	And we'll have to dissolve Prefect Lallement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u197	We must conclude, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u198	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Dissolve the LACs will allow us to strengthen the judicial police to conduct investigations under the supervision of the magistrates, as this is the best democratic guarantee of respect for freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u199	Quatennens would have been more effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u200	I have before me several requests for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u201	Mr Bernalicis, however, made a very polite statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u202	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u203	My point of order is based on Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bernalicis surpassed himself in personal attacks. You're misinformed. You've already reported me to the chained Duck for the first time, it hasn't been effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u204	No, his reporters did it on their own!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u205	I will give you the explanation: I was a police officer, I am retired in this capacity and, contrary to what you say, I have already had the right to cumulate for three years; This right is enshrined in the law. Please attack the text but stop attacking people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u207	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[MM. BernalicisetQuatennenssourientetapplaudent]] It is your personal interpretation of democracy, to you, Mr Bernalicis and to you, the members of the group La France insoumée, that you directly attack people and denounce them to all the newspapers to drag them into the mud. You're extremists and you've been bad, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u208	Interventions like this, we'd like to do it every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u209	Before I turn to the second point of order, I should like to inform you that on the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and La France insubmission of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u210	It is based on the same article. It is quite scandalous to carry out adhominem attacks against a colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u211	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u212	Yes, yes, of course, because you never do, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u213	I ask the colleagues in La France to apologize. It'll change them a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u214	Of course...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u215	Good. Let's go back to our debates. Mr Bernalicis, why do you want to intervene?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u216	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To apologize. I apologize for pointing the finger at a conflict of interest situation. Really, it would have been a shame not to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u217	It's anti-police hatred, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u218	Minister, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u219	He has nothing to say! He's all right. - No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u220	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u221	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Briefly, I want to highlight the work done on this text. To justify your previous rejection, we expected you to say that the text has not been sufficiently thorough and that it still takes time to think about it. Let us highlight the facts: this text is the result of three years of work, of a report, of 217 hearings, of very many hours of work in committee and in the Chamber, in the National Assembly and in the Senate, up to a joint committee which has proved to be at least busy and demanding. The least we can say is that this text has been debated and I would like to welcome the two rapporteurs, whose work honours our House. I would remind you that this is a bill! We should, from this point of view, be content to have had the initiative of such a text. This text will be landmark in that it gives coherence to the overall security policy and establishes a security continuum on the ground. It will involve many security actors very directly, and will give everyone the means to play their part while coordinating better with others. It will thus make it possible to carry out a more effective joint work – many people also experience it as a recognition of the diversity of security actors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mayors and elected officials will also be involved, since prevention will be strengthened – thank you for the work you have done in this area, with Stéphane Peu. Several articles deal with local security and crime prevention councils. This text has therefore indeed been worked out, and of course we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u222	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u223	I did not intend to explain my vote, but since the debate is open, I am happy to do so. That will not surprise you: I do not share the spirit of my colleague Ugo Bernalicis. Having been, for many years, the local elected representative of a territory sometimes presented – rightly so – as a complicated security issue, I have long been concerned about the deterioration not only of the relationship between the police and the population, but also of the police missions themselves. I still think that the removal of the local police has been dramatic – this seems to be fairly widely shared.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u224	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u225	The amendments I have tabled on this subject have unfortunately not been accepted, even though some of the proposals in the report on the development and improvement of local security and crime prevention councils, which I drafted with Rémy Rebeyrotte, have been taken up. I am concerned about the rise in the power of municipal police, without supervision, carrying out very different tasks from one territory to another, at the will of the mayors but often also, of the means of the communes: to simplify, the risk is to see the emergence of a police of the rich and a police of the poor. I am also concerned about the rise of private security. We are in the process of "believing" public safety! If it is a regalist policy that cannot suffer the precariousness of employment and the circumvention of labour law, it is indeed that of public security. I therefore find that the text is not good – I will explain it at a later stage. For these reasons, and for these reasons only, I will vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u226	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u227	The Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject. It seems to us almost irresponsible to propose such a motion as the situation is urgent, and the country's expectations for security are strong. As we have said throughout the review, we regret that the text does not go far enough and that it happens late – although it reinforces, here or there, some links in the great security chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u228	Ah, the big security chain!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u229	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We would have liked the municipal police officers to have additional powers, but I will not go back to that. As you know, Minister, there is an urgent need to respond to the deterioration of security in our neighbourhoods and cities – I am thinking in particular of urban rodeos or degeneration of marriages. We discussed these issues during the discussion of the text, but they have not been sufficiently taken into account. I repeat, the expectations of our fellow citizens are strong and this text does not go far enough. It is, however, a step forward, which must be recognized. Knowing that our group stands for a constructive position, and is on the lookout for security, we will not vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u230	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u231	We will, of course, vote against the motion to reject it, because we consider the bill to be useful for law enforcement: it will help and support them in their daily work – we have had the opportunity to say so during the examination of the text, and you have just recalled it, Madam and Mr rapporteurs; I hope that we will return to this in the general debate if, as I wish, the motion to reject is rejected. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is quite simple: the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats doubts the clear and real will of the Members of the French Parliament to support the forces of law and order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u232	The problem is the law enforcement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u233	Various recent events really give us reason to doubt this, and even more so, we are concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u234	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u235	No, Mr Bernalicis, we do not want your proposals, because they are worrying for the cohesion of our society!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u236	It is rather the authoritarian drift that is worrying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u237	Silence, the delators!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u238	And these aren't tendentious attacks?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u239	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We trust our majority and our rapporteurs – who have done remarkable work – and, of course, we trust the Minister, who has been working with us on this subject for many months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u240	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u241	The Socialist and Related Group will support the motion to reject it beforehand. I will not go back to what our colleagues in the La France group have said, which we do not always share. Instead, I will focus on the text: from the beginning, we say that it has not given rise to enough analysis and studies – let alone that the observations of the Council of State and the Defender of Rights, concerning violations of freedoms, have not been taken into account. Moreover, it will neither protect nor adequately accompany the police forces and the gendarmerie. We denounce the transfer of certain missions to private security and to municipal police, while they do not necessarily have the means to carry them out. Our group is showing a spirit of responsibility – because we have long exercised national and local responsibilities – but we want the text to be understood differently, both in form and substance, because it does not provide answers worthy of the name. However, these answers, the police are asking us to do so on the ground. We will therefore support the motion to reject, and I will have the opportunity, earlier, to recall what we would have liked to have found in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u242	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u243	Our group will not vote in favour of the motion to reject because we believe that the bill contains advances that will enable the law enforcement forces to work better, while guiding their work – in this it will help protect the French and French. That does not mean that we will vote for the bill – we will have an opportunity to speak on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u244	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u245	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 94 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 20 Against 74
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u246	In the general debate, Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u247	The Libertés et territoires group is very attached to both the efficiency of the mechanisms protecting French and French people, and to the defence of fundamental freedoms – effective and concrete respect for this balance is fundamental. We therefore have a differentiated approach to the text according to the arrangements and the nature of the proposed framework. We support the provisions relating to the municipal police, which are extended to the rural guards, as they will allow the land managers and mayors to decline the answers most suited to their territories, and the most proportionate. In particular, the experiment that broadens the powers of the municipal police will help to fight more effectively against the incivilities of everyday life. For these same reasons, we support the changes made by the Senate: the participation of the municipal police in securing sporting, recreational and cultural events, without threshold criteria, as well as the widespread possibility of pooling municipal police officers at the inter-municipal level, are welcome provisions. The proposed law also represents progress in the area of private security, as it improves the supervision of the profession of private security officer, and strengthens penalties for non-compliance. However, it must be ensured that the original objective will not be diverted, in order to avoid the increased use of subcontracting, while private security officers do not respond to the same legal and training constraints as public law enforcement officials. While video surveillance is, in itself, a useful device, its lack of supervision remains problematic. The Senate has, of course, introduced better safeguards in this area, but they seem to us to be insufficient in many respects. The final version of the text prohibits the analysis of drone images by automated facial recognition devices; We can only welcome this addition by the Senate, as our group raised this issue and tabled an amendment calling for this prohibition. What, however, is the situation with other types of cameras, which are not specifically covered by the ban? We welcome the introduction of prior authorisation for the use of drones, issued by the magistrate or the prefect, and we welcome the fact that this use is limited to the most serious offences. How can we explain, however, that an experiment extends the use of drones to municipal police, whereas, by definition, they do not deal with the most serious offences? Drones will always be able to monitor demonstrations on the highway, and transmit images in real time to the command post. At first reading, the rapporteur recalled the ban on filming the interiors of dwellings, among other examples, while acknowledging that it would be materially impossible to protect private spaces. For your part, Minister, you have refused to commit to the use of artificial intelligence technology to ensure respect for privacy – if it exists – and you have not shown the will to devote the appropriate means to it. So you are asking us to vote on a law that you know will, in part, be inapplicable. The usefulness of pedestrian cameras is indisputable, but their images must not be a communication tool that law enforcement could freely use to establish a truth. In accordance with one of our requests, the Senate has removed the possibility for law enforcement officials to broadcast images of their interventions directly to the public. Yet you wanted to keep the agents' direct access to their own images. Beware of putting a suspicion on their probity – they really don't need it! We regret that the idea of creating an independent supervisory authority, based on the British model of the Independent Office for Police Conduct, has not been retained. This type of institution would enable both law enforcement agencies to work and citizens to be reassured about the conditions of employment of these means; it would therefore contribute to confidence-building, Finally, article 24 was rewritten, and no longer amends the law of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press. However, an offence of provocation to identify a police officer or a gendarmerie in operation is provided for in the Criminal Code. We still do not see how it will improve existing law, particularly in the light of article 433-3 of the Criminal Code, which already covers threats to public order custodians, and punishes them with similar penalties. Moreover, article 24 always refers to the violation of physical or mental integrity, whereas the latter concept is particularly vague. Moreover, the criterion of intentionality is imprecise, which opens the door to arbitrariness. This Article 24, which will come into competition with Article 18 of the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, should have simply been deleted – and you know that. In the end, welcome clarifications were given by the Senate, which once again showed itself to be more vigilant than the majority of the Assembly on questions of law, and consequently on the operationality of the arrangements. However, certain provisions of the bill constitute disproportionate infringements of fundamental freedoms – the lack of supervision of video surveillance, in particular. Therefore, and although it supports some of its articles, our group will again vote, in the majority, against this text which, in fact, does not correspond to its new title.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u248	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u249	Let's not start a method point. Yesterday, in the Committee on Laws, with regard to a text that we presented to strengthen popular sovereignty, I was told that it happened too late in view of the constraints of our timetable: we sometimes feel that it is still too late to examine texts that would increase the powers of intervention of citizens, while we always find time to vote on texts that reduce public freedoms. This problem of form is, of course, a fundamental problem. My colleague Ugo Bernalicis has said this brilliantly: your government will have a fairly significant record in terms of reducing public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u251	Two years after the Yellow Gilets movement, what's the record? Three thousand convictions, thirty-two people snatched, five hands torn. None of the many social movements that our country has experienced had given rise to such a record, and instead of asking you as we have come to this point, you wish, you say, that the law protects the police more when in reality it is not a matter of protecting an indispensable profession but only, as has been said, to satisfy the wishes of corporatist organizations that are increasingly devoting the beautiful profession of police. The answer to all these problems is a clear political answer. The necessary trust between citizens and their police must be re-established. However, this text is not a comprehensive security text but rather a text of global insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u252	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u253	Indeed, it reinforces the growing suspicion about the role of the police, giving the impression that this indispensable public service cannot be subjected to any citizen criticism, that since it is the act of a police officer, it cannot be said that an act is reprehensible without being called anti-flic. Yes, minister, this is a vision. In the midst of a health crisis, when we have lacked masks, blouses, and we do not have the necessary number of vaccines, your ministry orders 170,000 LBD ammunition and 586 micro-drones from the daily for an amount of 4 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u254	For that, they know how to plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u255	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] This priority shows how you intend to solve the problem: tell me what your priorities are, I'll tell you who you are politically. I tell you this forcefully: it is not a question of opposing two camps, the police on the one hand, the population on the other, but of criticizing the government's crackdown on the police's work. I'm thinking of them. It is not a text of firmness, minister, it is a text of closure, of closure of the debate on the role of the police and the conditions in which it works! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Why not, for example, respond to our request for a commission of inquiry into the wave of suicides that strikes the police, filed in 2018 at the initiative of your servant? Why not recruit the 10,000 police officers who are missing? Why, when you, Mr. Minister, in another debate that was passionate about both of us, acknowledged that the situation was extremely serious in my constituency, did you remove 24 police positions in three years at the Montreuil police station? Why did you abolish 22 police stations at the Lilas police station? There are fewer personnel on the ground and this lack of resources constitutes this global insecurity. The truth is that a real republican does not separate the issue of security from the social issue, from employment. What security do you claim when you put in place a terrible reform that will reduce unemployment benefits and increase the number of unemployed? Is there a global security, when you do not ensure the food security of many households and the aid you provide to them is insufficient? When there's no health security?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u256	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u257	What is the recovery plan for the drug's public hub? And don't even talk about environmental safety. The right to security is a republican right, but it is based on a just social order. By making our police officers the doctors you send to the field to treat the fever you trigger, you expose them to tasks that are not theirs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Defending global security and republican security begins by defending republican ideas of freedom, equality and fraternity. Don't leave it to the police to keep order when you make disorder. This is the meaning of your text, which, instead of means, gives our police officers a role far removed from the republican function that we recognize them. Do not make it a force of opposition to our people when they mobilize for more justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u258	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u259	Communist MPs, who are often elected from cities and popular neighbourhoods, are in favour of public security, only able to protect the inhabitants, especially the most vulnerable, as well as their property. We are afortiori in favour of a security which is presented as global, since for us security also lies in the shelter of a roof, in the right to be able to care for itself thanks to enhanced social security or in the right to look to the future with confidence thanks to the security of a worthy compensation for unemployment. But since it is a matter of police, we consider, as we explained at first reading, that your text falls short of what should be its priorities: first, to restore the indispensable link of trust between the police and the population; Secondly, to ensure republican equality throughout the national territory, particularly in the working-class neighbourhoods; and thirdly, to avoid any risk of the police becoming increasingly perceived as a state police in the service of power and not as a people's police in the service of the people. You claim to clarify and bring coherence to the role of the forces that contribute to public security; the national police and the gendarmerie on the one hand, municipal police and private security actors on the other. In fact, you justify in this text the transfer of competences from the former to the others, which we have denounced for years, in the name of efficiency and in the name of justice, in fidelity to Article 12 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. Indeed, the disengagement of the regalian forces on the ground is an additional source of inequality between the territories: it is enough to cross the districts and towns of the Parisian suburbs to find that one cannot speak of the municipal police, but of the municipal police, both the missions and above all the means vary from one city to another. This disparity runs counter to the principle that the State is the guarantor of security throughout the entire territory of the Republic, one and indivisible, that it is the means of guarding against disparities, in particular between the security of the rich for the rich and the security of the poor for the poor. How can we deny that this is a matter of justice when we know that in Seine-Saint-Denis, a judicial police officer deals on average with three hundred cases when his colleague from the neighbouring city of Paris follows only eighty? As for the increase in the prerogatives of private security agents and companies, your text is very insufficient to moralize and homogenize this growing sector. Your refusal to retain those of our amendments which were intended to prohibit or at least significantly limit subcontracting is an illustration of this. On the contrary, there is a great risk that public security will become ubiquitous, since this sector is already very customary in precarious contracts, sometimes at the limit of labour law or even of law. Apart from the fact that this law misses its target in the field of efficiency, regulation and justice, you also don't reassure us about freedom. The essential balance between the protection of public and individual freedoms and the effectiveness of the intervention of the security forces is not at hand, whether it is the lack of supervision of the capture of images and the use of drones which pose real threats to the respect of freedoms and the protection of personal data, or of course Article 24, even rewritten. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still waiting for the great law of orientation which puts the police on both their legs, that of repression and that of prevention, the effectiveness of the first dependent on that of the second; a law which bases the police more on the human and less on the market, the algorithm or the drone, a law which restores the confidence of the people with regard to those who protect them, a law which finally gives the police the means which are so lacking and which, if I believe my contacts in the profession, remain its first concern, and by far. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This law that we have been waiting for for more than twenty years, we would have voted with enthusiasm. Unfortunately, we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u260	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u261	We are addressing for the last time the bill of our colleagues Alice Thourot and Jean-Michel Fauvergue, for a global security that preserves freedoms. I would like to commend the remarkable work of our colleagues, which began more than three years ago. This shows the length of parliamentary work and the perseverance they have shown in achieving this result. It must be acknowledged that a large number of observers have reduced the Comprehensive Security Act to article 24. With regard to this famous article, we can satisfy ourselves with the new writing of the Senate, adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, which introduces into the Criminal Code an offence of provocation to the identification of our law enforcement forces, punishable by five years' imprisonment and a fine of 75,000 euros. Our group welcomes the version adopted in the CMP, in so far as it excludes the 1881 law on freedom of the press, which is so sensitive and complex. Now introduced into the Penal Code, this new offence of provocation to identify tends to prevent the malicious dissemination of images of the law enforcement forces, responding to a strong, old and legitimate demand from the police unions that you recalled, Minister. You will also note, ladies and gentlemen, that the quantity of sentences has been revised upwards. As for our fellow citizens who wish to freely exercise their right to demonstrate, be they reassured: there is no question of sanctioning the mere fact of filming or disseminating the interventions of police officers and gendarmes. Only an individual would be criminalized, for example, by disseminating a picture of a police officer accompanied by his address and a call for hatred. I therefore believe that we and the Senate have succeeded in achieving a balance in the drafting of this article, which now guarantees the freedoms of all citizens, whether they are demonstrators, journalists or members of the police force. As much as this comprehensive security law had unleashed passions in the autumn, so much we have had little feedback on the very good compromise adopted in the Joint Joint Committee. I have the feeling that critical minds and polarists quickly moved on, one debate chasing the other, the climate bill having become the new target of the Cassandres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u262	What a contempt for associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u263	It should be recalled that, through this bill, the La République en Marche group is implementing major advances, long-awaited by security actors for greater efficiency on the ground, and first of all, the increase in the skills of municipal police and rural guards, reinforced as major actors of proximity security in all territories. As the Prime Minister announced last summer, we are going to experiment with an expansion of their missions in municipalities with more than fifteen agents: they will be able to see a driving without a permit, the occupation of a building hall or the use of narcotics. On the other hand, we will equip Paris with its own municipal police, a great advance expected for so many years by the Parisians. We will ensure better protection of law enforcement by limiting the benefit of automatic sentencing for their attackers. As for the private security sector, as Alice Thourot recalled, he is called upon to play a leading role in the major upcoming sporting events – I am enthusiastically thinking of the 2023 Rugby World Cup and the 2024 Olympic Games. This sector will need to better regulate the issuance of business cards and approvals. Finally, I welcome the guarantees introduced by the CMP, at the request of Alice Thourot, concerning the experimental use of cameras airborne by municipal police, introduced by the Senate. This five-year experiment, whose aims are limited to serious offences and places that are difficult to access, will be subject to a deliberation by the municipal council. Prefectural authorization will be limited to six renewable months and an evaluation will take place mid-term and ultimately. In conclusion, I would like, Mr Minister, to point out, in response to the misconceptions that have just been made by our colleagues in La France, that the Government and this parliamentary majority have been investing massively since the beginning of this legislature in the deployment of daily security. An additional 10,000 police officers and gendarmes will have been recruited during this mandate. We will have improved their material resources, with 1300 vehicles delivered this year – we have all seen on the ground the presence of the new Peugeot 5008, highly appreciated by the police. In addition, 75,000 police officers and gendarmes have been trained in the fight against domestic violence and access to a telephone alert for victims of such violence has been generalized. A flat-rate fine of EUR 200 for the use of narcotics has been established, on the basis of which 44,000 arrests have already been carried out. Thirty-two priority areas of republican reconquest have been established with strengthened personnel. Border forces have been doubled and the fight against motorized rodeos is under way. The list is not exhaustive. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You see it, ladies and gentlemen, since 2017 our will has been to make security one of the priorities of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, and this bill for global security is fully part of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u264	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u265	The so-called Global Security Act is now coming to the conclusion of its consideration in our Assembly. The Joint Joint Committee, which is responsible for proposing a text on the remaining provisions of the bill now known as "global security preserving freedoms", has reached an agreement and we welcome it. At the CMP, Senators and MPs agreed on the need to strengthen the articulation of security forces, to better protect law enforcement, to allow the use of new technologies and to strengthen the structure of private security. Thus, the experimentation that strengthens the judicial prerogatives of municipal police officers is better supervised and more operational, allowing these personnel to guarantee the safety of the daily lives of our citizens. Coordination agreements between municipal police and national law enforcement agencies are strengthened to ensure the proper articulation of security actors. The use of subcontracting in the private security sector is better managed, while maintaining the flexibility necessary for companies to cope with changing needs. With regard to the use of mobile cameras by law enforcement agencies, immediate viewing of images during an intervention will be possible for certain specific operational reasons, but their direct dissemination in the media has been ruled out – this is a good thing. The use by the police of drones equipped with cameras is reserved for the circumstances in which they are actually useful and necessary and requires prior authorisation; The use of facial recognition is prohibited. Access to video protection images of railway undertakings by the internal security forces is facilitated and secure. At the CMP, a Parisian security council was also created, to which my colleague Brigitte Kuster, whom I greet, held a great deal. The text adopted by the CMP retains many of the Senate's contributions aimed, inter alia, at regulating certain arrangements more strictly and at providing guarantees for the protection of public and individual freedoms, in particular the limitation to the most serious offences of the abolition of the reduction of the penalty appropriations for the perpetrators of offences committed against an elected official, a police officer or a gendarmerie. In committee, we decided to exclude the reduction of sentences for those guilty of violence against municipal and customs police officers as well as prison staff. Personally, as you know, I had proposed the total abolition of automatic sentencing credits in order to combat the explosion of violence in our country. You told me, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that you were not fiercely opposed to it, but that such a measure was not applicable as it was. Since then, the keeper of the seals has expressed his wish to remove automatic sentencing reductions. I hope that his speech will be followed by effect, and I invite him to take up the bill in the sense that I tabled on 26 January last with thirty-five of my colleagues in the Republican Group. With regard to the famous article 24, it now provides for the creation of an offence of incitement to identification which, while protecting members of the internal security forces and their families, does not affect the right to inform. Recall that, at the first reading, the LR group had denounced the mistake of including it in the 1881 law on freedom of the press and not in the penal code – the aim of the article is not to muzzle the press, but to prevent any person from intentionally harming a police officer or a gendarmerie by revealing any evidence to identify him. Our group had proposed an amendment to that effect; We are pleased to have been heard, although we continue to question the expression "in case of provocation to identification" which remains particularly subjective to characterize the new offence. The Republican Group took a responsible and constructive approach from the beginning to the end of the discussion of the text. We have raised points that we believe are incorrect, because our objective is to achieve the most effective text possible for the protection of the French. When the provisions were in the right direction, we did not hesitate to adopt them and to be a force for proposals – we voted on the whole text after its consideration. We have thus obtained that the duration of the ban on the exercise of a profession relating to private security is extended to seven years if serious breaches are found; and that a screening of people wishing to perform sensitive functions in public transport infrastructure managers be carried out by the National Administrative Investigation Service, which is a major step forward – this was a proposal by our colleague Eric Diard, a great specialist in the phenomena of radicalisation in public services. The text sparked heated controversy during its first reading, both within and outside this House. To be honest, he did not deserve the media outburst triggered by some well-thought-out bobos that trade anti-flic hatred...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u266	What a contempt! What a contempt for the UN, for the European Union, for the League of Human Rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u267	At least we're bohemian!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u268	... and by the far left who proposed disarming our policemen to face the thugs – I at least recognize them the merit of ideological coherence. It was one of your colleagues who proposed it, ma'am! To be honest, he also did not deserve the enthusiasm of the rapporteurs and some of the majority: the text proposes some welcome technical measures but it will not solve the fundamental security problems. I regret, moreover, that many of our proposals have been rejected because of the left hemisphere of your majority, of which I know that the weight is unfortunately largely dominant in your group, sometimes in the name of the rapporteur. However, since it contains some interesting measures, the Republican MPs will take their responsibilities and vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I take this moment to reaffirm, on my behalf and on behalf of our group, our full support for our gendarmes and our police officers who risk their lives on a daily basis to ensure our safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u269	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u270	The bill will have gone through a complex, sometimes chaotic journey, partly due to the way it was enriched to become a kind of bill, but – we regretted – without an impact assessment or advice from the Council of State – it was a risk. Given the provisions we had to discuss, our dissatisfaction with the method used is not surprising. It has, moreover, blurred the debate and sometimes obscured the considerable work of our fellow rapporteurs, Alice Thourot and Jean-Michel Fauvergue. Throughout the parliamentary procedure, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats defended the creation of an operational and protective security continuum, both for our citizens and for the public or private security forces. We did not hesitate to say clearly what we felt was going in the right direction or not – I am thinking of Article 24 in its original wording or of the lack of guarantees governing the use of drones. We have tabled amendments in order to be constructive. Some have been adopted: for example, the candidacy of a municipality for experimentation in the field of municipal police is the subject of a communication in municipal council; a decree lays down the criteria for evaluating the experiment common to all the municipalities concerned for the purpose of submitting a report to the Government; the mayors' information on the judicial follow-up given to infringements found in their commune is reinforced; subcontracting in the field of private security is limited; The use of on-board cameras is better framed. I will not draw up a detailed inventory but through these few examples I wanted to show that the Dem Group was a force of proposal. Of course, there have been tensions, misunderstandings, frustrations, but in our assembly we have been able to work together to arrive at a text that is certainly not perfect but whose faults have been largely corrected. That is why the Joint Joint Committee has been able to reach a compromise in favour of which our group will vote in majority. However, there are still provisions that do not fully meet our expectations. I am thinking of section 24, rewritten by the Senate, which creates a second offence that may be insufficiently intelligible. However, the clarity of the law is a constitutional requirement. We also question the relevance of retaining this article in the bill given the existence in the bill of the Republic's principles of respect for an article whose drafting appears to be more judicious and broader in scope. The same applies to article 25, which authorizes the carrying of weapons for off-duty police officers and gendarmes in establishments receiving from the public, without their managers being able to oppose it. A majority of members of our group were against this provision, like some of our colleagues in the Senate. Carrying a weapon outside of his duty hours is not annoyance to both law enforcement and citizens. With regard to the use of drones, while the Senate has provided certain guarantees that we requested at first reading, they are still insufficient. In conclusion, I would like to stress the work of the two chambers, which has led to the emergence of controversy over certain provisions of the text. The Assembly and the Senate have played their full role as legislators to achieve a fairer balance between security and respect for freedoms. I would like to believe that the provisions of the bill will enable the national law enforcement agencies to maintain their structural role for the security of all the French; that municipal police will continue to increase their powers, complementing State forces and respecting the division of roles with national police officers and gendarmes; that the private security sector will be a partner of the security forces, with enhanced structuring, consolidation of its requirements for the training of officers and better control. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Dem Group supports the introduction of a safety continuum. The proposal for a law will require adaptations and changes, but at the end of the parliamentary procedure it largely meets many of our expectations. The majority of us will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u271	On the whole, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u272	Once again, I regret the procedure followed: no prior advice from the specialized institutions with the independence required by the Constitution and the law – the Council of State, the Defender of Rights and the National Human Rights Commission. The Defender of Rights and international experts, however, expressed their views on its content and on the provisions that might call into question individual and public freedoms. Secondly, article 24 has been the subject of so many criticisms that the President of the Republic himself has interfered with it by proposing to entrust the drafting of it to a committee outside the Parliament. On the other hand, article 24 has an object similar to that of article 18 of the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The title of the bill has been amended to reflect the word "freedom". As one philosopher said, everyone heard about the Holy Roman Empire, which was neither holy nor Roman nor an empire. Changing a denomination does not change reality. In short, for a text originally intended to clarify the respective competences of national, municipal and private police, we are far from the point of view. With regard to the provisions relating to municipal polices, the scope of the experiment is very wide. Municipal police officers will be required to carry out investigative acts within the limits of the prerogatives of the State. The extension of their skills is not accompanied by any measures on the strengthening of their training or career development. Moreover, the word "training" is very rarely used – for the directors and chiefs of the municipal police or for the agents of the Paris municipal police to come or for commitments to serve. The experiment whose generalization may be decided tomorrow without final evaluation, as has already happened in criminal matters, is akin to a hidden transfer of powers without transfer of resources or budgetary resources. As some elected officials and professionals point out, perhaps less trained and certainly less paid people will do the same work as police officers. Private security companies and their employees are responsible for monitoring, guarding, transporting funds or physically protecting people. The text avoids addressing the fundamental economic problem of the sector, that of competition arising from the cascading subcontracting of many tasks and activities, which should not have been regulated but, I say, prohibit. I have been able to obtain several opinions from police officials and officers, all of whom are concerned about the risk of recruitment conditions, which some call opaque, denouncing a risk of recruitment that would lead to the self-indulgence of origins, beliefs or communities. The text also changes the status of the pedestrian cameras. A 2016 law had allowed police and gendarmes to film their interventions with mobile cameras and the text we are looking at now generalizes the use of embedded cameras and cameras, and opens access to video surveillance images to many agents. It does not prohibit the use of facial recognition, which is also worrying. Filming the population using mobile cameras is very intrusive and, in order to allow such an infringement of the right to privacy, the authorities must prove that the use of the drone is a necessary and proportionate measure. However, the text largely allows the use of drones across the borders of any public space to detect offences, but also during demonstrations. The provisions of this proposal should be linked to the arbitrated strategy of policing in Germany, a country often praised by many observers for its mentality and concern for order, a strategy that integrates the protection of demonstrators, dialogue and the de-escalation of violence. It would have been possible to move our own strategy forward by involving the elected representatives of the nation and the major trade union organizations or associations involved in this subject in the future. Article 24, which was problematic, remained a matter of concern. If there is no longer any mention of the dissemination of "the face or any element of identification" of a police officer or a gendarmerie member, the crime introduced remains vague, evoking a supposed intention to harm the police, and divergent interpretations and decisions may ultimately harm the work of journalists. Finally, the problem is that part of the public discourse is in crisis. Too often, the protective state announces its return, but does the opposite. Its missions are multiplying, while its services, its branches and its most qualified personnel are becoming less and less numerous or leaving, and feel little material recognition. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] For all these reasons, and many others that I have not been able to recall here, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against this text, which is really problematic with regard to the issues of freedoms and protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u273	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u274	We are meeting for the final reading, in the text of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on global security that preserves freedoms. The Group of the European People's Party will once again renew its support for the draft law of the rapporteurs Alice Thourot and Jean-Michel Fauvergue. I would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen, and to pay tribute to the quality of your work, which has been carried out for several years and which has now come to its conclusion. Let us welcome this parliamentary work, which is an example to follow and a good initiative. This text, as ambitious as it is necessary, will remain one of the great markers of this quinquennium and, together with the Republic on the move and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, Acting together and other political groups that have already expressed their views on the subject will contribute, by voting on it, to protecting those who protect us. This bill has three main objectives: to expand the skills and role of municipal police, to continue the work of supervising a growing private security sector and, finally, to modernize the capacity of the security forces while legally regulating the use of new technologies. The Action Group agrees with the measures contained in this text, as amended by the Senate, and the result of the joint committee's concerted work. Without resuming all the progress made by this Act, I shall mention, among the most symbolic articles, article 23, which aims to abolish the automatic reduction of sentences for persons convicted of certain offences when committed against a person holding a public office, a magistrate, a member of the national gendarmerie, a national police officer, a customs officer or the prison administration, a municipal police officer, a professional or voluntary firefighter, or any other person with public authority. The bill introduced yesterday by the keeper of the seals will allow the principle of automatic reduction of sentence credits to be abolished in general, in order to promote good behaviour in detention, and we are satisfied with it. Furthermore, article 12, which aims to tighten the penalties for infringements against private security agents and, by symmetry, by tightening the penalties when they themselves commit offences, seems to us to be the indispensable corollary of the rise in the role of these agents in our society. With regard to the work in public sittings in the Assembly, we recall our commitment to the commitment of the Minister of the Interior to the various future decrees that will allow municipal police officers to have access to the stolen vehicles file, in connection with their competence in road matters, but also and above all to the list of persons sought. Every day that passes without such access is lost time for the work of the National Police. The work of the Senate resulted in the adoption of an amendment that the Acting Together group had also tabled in the Assembly and to which my colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel was particularly interested. The article thus introduced will allow the surveillance officers of the Groupement parisienne inter-basiers de surveillance and the Groupement interquartiers de tranquillité et de sécurité to find directly certain offences committed against the buildings concerned. Finally, I can only welcome the work of the Joint Joint Committee, which has made it possible to re-establish an article, deleted by the Senate, which had been introduced in the National Assembly by my colleague Loïc Dombreval, Article 11 ter, which requires that the use of dogs by private security officers respect animal welfare. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Once again, the Action Together Group will respond to vote on an ambitious and necessary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u275	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u276	[[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] There are things that go without saying, but that are always better by saying them, and today is the right time to recall our full support for our internal security forces, whether they are our gendarmes, our national police, our municipal police or our rural guards. It is important that they know that Parliament is with them and supports them. I come to the bill. In substance, we must welcome the developments that have taken place, particularly with regard to the use of new technologies. It is necessary to know how to live with his time, and the use of drones has received, during the parliamentary shuttle, a necessary framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u277	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u278	At first reading, we referred to our concerns and questions about the use of these means, and it would appear that a necessary improvement has been made in this area. As far as the municipal police are concerned, the CMP has validated the experiment provided for in Article 1, while retaining the guidance provided by the Senate. It is interesting to note that many of the Senate's amendments have been retained in this text, and I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for listening, because this is the satisfaction we can have in our daily work. I welcome the work that the Union centriste of the Senate, our group in the Assembly and the two rapporteurs, Jean-Michel Fauvergue and Alice Thourot, have done together under very correct conditions. It is important that parliamentary work reach such a conclusion after the majority of the groups have been heard. The only point we can regret about the municipal police is that the experiment was limited to services with more than twenty municipal police officers. There are some advances that we can welcome more than others, such as section 27 ter, which takes up my proposed law to ensure that retired police officers and gendarmes can retain their status as an OPJ – a judicial police officer. We could not present this proposal within the framework of the parliamentary niche of our group and it was in the form of an amendment by Mr Hervé Marseille, chairman of the Centralist Union Group in the Senate, that this provision could be introduced, before being validated by the Joint Joint Committee. This is another example of constructive work between the two chambers, with the rapporteurs and the Government. This measure will enhance the skills of retired reservists in the active forces of the National Police and the Gendarmerie, in order to supplement the active personnel in certain tasks and facilitate their mobilization on the ground. On form, we note two points of satisfaction: on articles 22 and 24, relating to the use of drones and the identification of persons belonging to the forces of law and order, a balance was also found. We must all bear in mind that the protection of our police and gendarmes must be a priority, but it is also important that fundamental freedoms be guaranteed. There has been a real effort to explain this text, and we agree that if wrongdoing is committed by law enforcement officials, it is the duty of witnesses and persons concerned to make this known. Work must also be done in the media and in the public to explain that the text that we are going to vote on does not contradict this evidence. Law enforcement agencies do not enjoy immunity, but legitimate and necessary protection, and some pedagogy must be pursued in order to avoid amalgam. [[Mr. Jean-Michel Fauvergue applauds]] In conclusion, our group will vote in favour of this text as a majority, if not as a whole. I would also like to thank the Minister for the constructive work that has been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u279	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u280	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. The Government's coordination amendments Nos. 2, 4, 3, 5, 1, 7 and 6 are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u281	Favourable opinion. I would also like to say a few words of support for my colleague Jean-Michel Fauvergue. I have indeed been very touched by the defamatory statements made against him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u282	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] "Slanders, slanders, there will always be something left of it," you think. For my part, I am very proud to count in our ranks Jean-Michel Fauvergue, who after a brilliant career in the police and having experienced very serious events, such as the attack on the Bataclan, could have enjoyed a well-deserved retirement, but who chose to engage otherwise for the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u284	Live conflicts of interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u285	Shut up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u286	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ...and to defend his ideas. I want to thank him for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u287	The Republic in exemplary march, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u288	I shall put to the vote the whole of the bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u289	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 112 Number of votes cast 108 Absolute majority 55 For adoption 75 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1250.u290	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for a law renovating the governance of public drinking water and sanitation services in Guadeloupe; Discussion, at second reading, of the proposed law to protect minors from sexual crimes; Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to climate change. The meeting is adjourned.
