ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u3	I am very pleased to introduce, together with the Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, the fifth five-year Finance Bill (FPL).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u4	And the last one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u5	There are two ways to view this finance bill: as the last of President Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, or as the first of the exit from crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u7	The first of the new era!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u8	You will allow me to see it as the first finance bill to come out of the crisis and restore our economy, the first finance bill in the decade of sustainable growth that we want to build with the majority. I would first like to address the majority, just to say, thank you: thank you for your unwavering support, thank you for the quality of our joint work over the last five years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u9	Bravo, really...!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u10	...thank you for your tireless struggle to overcome political divisions and bring concrete solutions to the problems of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u11	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u12	I continue to think, since 2017, that the solutions are not right or left, right center, left center or left centered: the solutions are French or they are not; They are national and European, or they are nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u13	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u14	They're European!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u15	So continue to wage just fights – not right-wing fighting, not left-wing fighting, just fighting: the fight for equality between women and men, embodied by Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain's bill of law, is a just and necessary fight for France; the fight for the regulation of digital platforms, following the agreement on international taxation, is a just and necessary fight for France and for Europe; The fight for the reform of the European energy market is a just and necessary fight for all European states without exception. It is these struggles that will give meaning to your political action; These are the battles that the French will recognize. By the majority, I would also like to say: be proud of what you have accomplished. Bring the economic and financial balance of the President of the Republic to the fort, because this balance sheet is yours. Oppositions are attacking us – it's their role, let's not blame them...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u16	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u17	Your role is to respond to these attacks, calmly and firmly. To those who say that you let the debt go,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u19	[["Yes! On a few benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] ... remember loud and clear that you are the first majority to have brought the government deficit below 3% of GDP in 2018, for the first time in eleven years. Remember that you have stopped the explosion of the public debt since 2010; Remember that you removed France from the excessive government deficit procedure. Be proud of these results!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u20	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u21	Remember that you have achieved these results through courageous decisions: you have reformed the functioning of the chambers of commerce and industry; you have reduced assisted jobs; You voted for the reform of the public audiovisual system: these courageous decisions, which no one had the courage to take before you, allowed us, between 2017 and 2019, to restore the public finances of France. So we have no lesson to learn from anyone about restoring public finances – and certainly not from those who want everything and its opposite: more spending but additional savings, being prodigal in the countryside but austere in the Finance Committee... Coherence does not stifle them! Put before their contradictions those who criticize the drift of public spending but constantly propose new spending, those who sound alarm bells with one hand but tend the sebile of the other, those who want less public investment but more growth, less public spending but more police, more military, more gendarmes, more hospitals, better paid teachers, and more subsidies for businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u22	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u23	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Mohamed Laqhila also applauds]] They're incoherent. You, your strength, have been your consistency for almost five years. We restored public finances in 2018 – they had not been in the past eleven years. We will do so in the coming years, according to the timetable you have set. Our public debt will be 114 per cent of GDP in 2022, compared to more than 115 per cent in 2021. Our public deficit will not exceed 5% of GDP in 2022, including the investment plan and measures responding to rising energy prices – which no one here can challenge the urgent need for the most modest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u24	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u25	We will not repeat the mistake of 2008, which has cost the European economies so much: we will not restore public finances to force, austerity or brutality; We will restore them through structural reforms, a renewed budgetary procedure and growth. We are continuing structural reforms: the reform of unemployment insurance entered into force on 1 October, and the President of the Republic has been clear on the need for pension reform. We will also lead the restoration of public finances by applying a more efficient budgetary procedure – notably by applying the multi-year public expenditure rule proposed by Éric Woerth and Laurent Saint-Martin. I hope that, when the time comes, we will give this multi-year rule a constitutional value, because only a constitutional rule will force us all here to make clear choices about public spending, in other words, democratic choices about it. Everything is not possible, and the principle of democracy is the choice: that is what this constitutional rule will allow us to do. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, we will lead the restoration of public finances by what is most essential, most effective, most necessary and safest for our compatriots: growth. Growth is back in France. It does not fall from heaven; It does not come as if by enchantment; It is not the mechanical and simple consequence of the decline we experienced in 2020 and the economic shock we experienced. The economy does not function as a spring that would relax and extend mechanically – if not, stop politics! If we don't believe that politics can change the deal, let's move on! We all gather here on one point: politics can change things. Our economic policy has changed things: it brought back growth in 2021 for the French. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[New applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Noël Barrot also applauds]] I will go further: if French growth has returned so quickly, it is not simply because of the choice of protection you have made – and we have done with the President of the Republic, with the "no matter what" – in 2020; This is not simply the result of a successful recovery, which we have already disbursed almost half in 2021; It is also – do not have the short memory – the result of your economic policy choices for more than four years. Since 2017, ladies and gentlemen of the majority – sometimes with the support of some members of the opposition – you have thoroughly reformed taxation, reduced household taxes massively and simplified the lives of businesses. This is what allows some people today to have higher purchasing power than in 2019, despite an unprecedented crisis; This is what allows companies to regain the most important margin rate in 20 years – it's because we've held on to the drop in corporate and corporate taxes! This is what allows companies to innovate, invest, and above all, more important than anything else, to hire. INSEE expects us to reach an unemployment rate of 7.6% this half-year, the lowest level since 2008. Some dreamed of reversing the unemployment curve, you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u26	What a self-satisfaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u27	Growth is strong; it is solid; It's dynamic. We will therefore revise the growth forecast for 2021 from 6% to 6.25%. In accordance with my promise, in December 2021 we will return to the level of pre-crisis activity. I will therefore refer the matter to the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP) on 22 October, as I had committed myself, to resubmit the updated finance bill, with a revised growth rate of 6.25% for the year 2021. Some tell us: "Okay, unemployment is falling; All right, you've protected the economy well; All right, growth is back, but you've helped the richest, you've neglected the most modest, you've neglected the middle classes, you've made a policy for the rich. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u30	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Obviously, there is not only growth that is back, but also demagogy! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not let this untruth pass; revolt against this lie. I know the bigger it is, the more it goes, but now, frankly, it doesn't pass! For the past five years, you have increased the social minimums; you have increased the activity premium by EUR 100 per month to better pay the most modest workers; you have defied overtime – and we propose, in the PLF for 2022, to deficate tips –; you have removed employers' contributions at the level of the SMIC; you have massively developed interest and participation, to ensure more justice and to involve employees in the results of companies; you have reduced household taxes by 26 billion euros, the biggest tax reduction ever made in France in 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u32	You have lowered taxes for the most modest classes and the middle classes; you saved thousands of jobs through partial activity; You have therefore protected millions of paid employees at SMIC, who have not lost 1 euro during the most serious economic crisis that France has experienced since 1929. You have avoided an avalanche of bankruptcies, with its inevitable procession of human tragedies and dismissals. You have relaunched the hiring, learning, growth and attractiveness of France. Finally, after four years of heated debates and struggles, marked by ups and downs, good surprises and disappointments, you have obtained the international taxation of digital giants...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u33	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... and the introduction of a minimum tax of 15%: this is a historic agreement, which changes the international tax situation for the 21st century. You are the majority of the tax justice system, that of the working middle classes, that of merit, that of France, which returns to economic success and recovers. Be proud of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u35	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u36	However, is the sky clear on the horizon, to resume a fashionable term? No, and that requires us all, the majority as opposed, to remain vigilant about certain risks. I count three immediate ones. The first is systemic: it is that of an exacerbated economic rivalry between nations, at the risk of a conflict between China and the United States. The conquest of rare earths, the desire to master new technologies, the shortage of materials such as wood or steel, or components such as semiconductors, competition over global standards, can lead to a slowdown in global growth or, worse, to power conflicts, particularly between China and the United States. To this long-term risk, I see only one answer: the independence of the nation and Europe. This is what will lead the President of the Republic to present tomorrow an ambitious investment plan for France of 2030. This plan must strengthen our independence in critical areas such as nuclear, biotechnology and space. It must renew our innovation investment policy and create new industrial sectors, such as hydrogen. The aim is to strengthen France's industrial base, beyond its current areas of excellence such as aeronautics, luxury, medicine and agri-food. An amendment to the appropriations required in 2022 for this investment plan will be tabled for this purpose during the first reading of the Finance Bill. The second risk is inflation. We do not fear structurally high inflation. Current inflation in the world is linked to strong economic recovery and shortages. We had anticipated this movement, allowing us to maintain our inflation forecast at 1.5% for 2021 and 2022. What we fear, on the other hand, is the effect of this inflation on the price of certain products of everyday life and its consequences for the daily lives of the French. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I think first of all about the price of energy. The price of gas has blazed in the last few weeks. It's not good news for anyone. This is not good news for the state, which in this case loses at least as much tax revenue as it earns. Do you really believe that the state has become richer during the oil shocks? Do you think he'll get rich with a gas shock? The presidential candidacy does not allow all approximations and demagogies. This is not good news for households, which see their energy bills increase sharply, nor for companies, whose fixed costs are exploding. To respond to this surge in energy prices,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u37	One hundred percent increase!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u38	...the Prime Minister announced the freezing of the gas price, the payment of an additional EUR 100 energy check in December and a tariff shield on electricity prices. These are costly but necessary measures to protect the poorest households. They will cost EUR 600 million for the energy check and EUR 5 billion in full years for the reduction of taxation, assuming that gas prices – which draw those from electricity – do not increase further. That is the financial effort that is needed to protect the French from rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u39	What about CSPE?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u40	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these immediate solutions, the medium-term solution is European and it is twofold: first, it involves a reform of the European energy market, for which I have been fighting for several weeks. We cannot accept that France – which benefits from a historical cost of producing nuclear electricity at 42 euros per megawatt hour – will pay the marginal cost of operating gas power plants, which currently amounts to 167 euros per megawatt hour! Nor can our Spanish friends accept that they have invested heavily in renewable energy in order, in the end, to pay not the average cost of producing renewable energy, but the marginal cost of producing gas-fired power plants: this system is unfair, inefficient and we need to reform it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u41	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u42	The second European solution, which I proposed this morning with several European partners – Romanian, Finnish, Slovak, Slovenian, Polish, Czech, Croatian, Bulgarian and Hungarian – is to relaunch nuclear energy. This energy is decarbonized and available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u43	What a discovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u44	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] It is a French know-how; It is one of the solutions in the face of rising gas prices and the growing need for electricity in our daily use. In order to face the energy crisis and to deploy the energy transition calmly, we must reinvest in nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u45	Why did you shut down the Fessenheim power plant?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u46	The third risk is the shortage of labour. In your capacity as local elected officials, you can see it in your constituencies: the builders of the building, the public works contractors, the restaurateurs, the hoteliers lack it. This is the paradox of France, which has too many unemployed people and not enough arms. The solution is through training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u47	And by salary increases!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u48	The €1.4 billion skills development plan, announced by the Prime Minister at the end of September and deployed by Elizabeth Borne, is in addition to the means of recovery mobilized to train in the professions of the future. The solution then lies in the reform of unemployment insurance. Finally, it passes through a strategic objective which, for the first time in half a century, seems accessible and which constitutes the red line of the five-year economic policy: full employment. For the first time since 1970, France can achieve what other major developed nations have achieved for years: full employment, i.e. a level of unemployment of 5 to 6 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u49	That's the goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u50	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Noël Barrot also applauds]] We must put an end to the national renunciation of this issue. We must put an end to an economy that is satisfied with an unemployment rate of 11% when things go wrong and 8% when things go well. Full employment is now possible, thanks to you, thanks to the offer policy that you were the first to set up in 20 years. No one had yet tried this policy, which is to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises, to train employees better, to increase the level of qualifications, to lower taxes and to refuse the ease of tax increases. That is what allows you to say today to the French and French: we can achieve full employment within two years. It is thanks to you, thanks to the President of the Republic, thanks to the economic transformation that you have supported since 2017, an accessible goal for the French nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u51	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u52	Let me begin by telling you how pleased I am to meet you in a public session to start this budget marathon, which will undoubtedly occupy us intensely over the next few days and weeks. This finance bill – the last of the quinquennium – that I have the honour to present to you with Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, reflects our main directions for the future, as well as the public finance strategies deployed since the beginning of the quinquennium, and then in the face of the crisis. Last year, at the same time, we approached the review of the budget with the uncomfortable feeling of uncertainty about the evolution of the health situation, the economic prospects or the intensity of the support to be provided. The horizon may not be completely clear, but we have the immense satisfaction of the results of the massive support we have put in place, notably with high economic growth and the return to unemployment below the pre-crisis level and equivalent to that of the end of 2007. We are therefore approaching this PLF in a much better situation, with robust growth; Moreover, the exit of the crisis is an opportunity to think of France in 2030. That is why, as Bruno Le Maire has just said, we will propose that you amend this budget to include the financing of the investment plan that the President of the Republic will present. I, for my part, wish to concentrate on two essential points: firstly, this budget enables the commitments of the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority to be fulfilled; Then, after the first four budgets, I want to underline what it brings about the purchasing power of the French. As we present it to you, this finance bill is above all a promise. It implements the commitments of the President of the Republic and the Government and, first of all, strengthens the resources allocated to the Regalian missions. First, it allows the State to be rearmed, as we had committed ourselves to it. We're doing what we said. We respect and enforce the law of military programming, thanks to an increase of 1.7 billion euros in the appropriations of the Ministry of Armed Forces. We are thus fulfilling our commitments. We are also increasing the resources devoted to the Ministry of the Interior, to the tune of 1.5 billion euros, and we are financing the announcements made by the President of the Republic in the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité, as well as the commitments made by the Minister of the Interior. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] We are finally increasing by 8%, and this for the second year in a row, the budget allocated to the Ministry of Justice – I would point out that, if everyone had agreed last year that such an increase was historic because of its amount, it is all the more so this year, with a repetition for the second consecutive year, I repeat, of an increase of 8%. The law of programming for justice is thus respected and our commitments are fulfilled. This budget therefore gives us the means to defend ourselves and enforce the law, thus fulfilling the Government's commitment to restore the functions of the Regalian; Everyone can be happy about it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, this budget invests in the future: youth and education are indisputable priorities of this budget, as well as precedents. The budget of the Ministry of National Education will grow by 1.7 billion this year. This historic increase will reinforce policies that have already borne a lot of fruit: for 2022 we aim for a target of 200,000 young people on a civic service mission – a mechanism in which we believe. Supporting young people also means paying more attention to the students who need it most: by way of illustration, this budget will also make it possible to recruit an additional 4000 accompanying students with disabilities (AESH) at the beginning of the 2022 school year. On the quinquennium, we will have created nearly 30,000 AESH posts and we are extremely proud of this historic policy on the reception of children with disabilities at school. In order to prepare for the future, by investing in education and research, the appropriations of the Ministry of Higher Education will increase by 700 million euros, of which 550 million correspond to the planned march under the Research Programming Act and 150 million to the improvement of the student condition. [[Mr Jean-MarcZulesiapplaudit]] The third commitment I want to stress: this budget gives us the means to continue the ecological transition. It is an imperative of civilization and we are strengthening our efforts in this area for several years to do so. As a result, we have steadily increased appropriations for the Ministry of Ecological Transition. We are not derogating from this rule again this year: the increase in its appropriations amounts to EUR 1.5 billion, excluding the recovery plan. It should be noted that between 2021 and 2022, the expenses associated with the ecological transition represent one third of the expenses incurred under the recovery plan, to the tune of 30 billion. By combining the efforts made on the traditional budget of the Ministry of the Ecological Transition and within the framework of the recovery plan, the funds allocated to MaPrimeRénov'will reach almost 2 billion euros in 2022, which will allow the State's effort to maintain the energy renovation of housing at the same level as in 2021. Finally, discussions on environmental taxation can often be heated. From this point of view, it must be stressed that the taxation of biofuels is a success. Year after year, we are increasing the level of environmental requirements, which will enable us to achieve the objectives of multi-annual energy programming. We are going even further, integrating hydrogen into this tax system, so that we can be as efficient and as comprehensive as possible. In order to monitor the environmental consequences of the budget, we have pioneered the introduction of the Green Budget, the second edition of which has just been published. With this, you will see that environmentally friendly spending is on the rise again, as it will reach €2022_32.5 billion from the common rights appropriations of the ministries, compared with €31.4 billion in 2021. If this budget prepares for the future, it is also a budget of equality and solidarity – this is the fourth commitment I want to stress. Thus, we will maintain in 2022 the highest level of accommodation we have ever known, that is, 190,000 places throughout the year. From a budgetary point of view, this translates into an increase in emergency accommodation appropriations from €1.8 billion to €2.7 billion between 2017 and 2022, which seems to me to demonstrate our commitment in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With this budget, we also propose that you translate another commitment made by the Government before the National Assembly: that of raising the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities, or AAH, for persons who are beneficiaries and living with them. After having already re-aligned this allowance of 90 euros a month three years ago, we propose today to create a system of allowances that will allow 120000 couples to benefit from an increase of 110 euros a month in the amount of this allowance, for a total amount of 200 million euros. We have said from the beginning of the quinquennium that disability is a high priority of this legislature, and it remains so. We have, it seems to me, collectively demonstrated this and, to all those who tell us that we have not done enough, I will reply that, on the quinquennium, expenditure on the allowance for adults with disabilities will have increased by a quarter, i.e. by 2.4 billion euros. No one had done it before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u53	There are those who speak and those who do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u54	This budget is also an equality budget. For example, we will continue to fight tirelessly for equality between women and men, which in 2022 will go through a 25% increase in the budget, which will reach just over 50 million euros. This amount represents directly manageable expenditure per ministry, since the appropriations for equality between women and men, as well as for the fight against discrimination, reach more than EUR 1 billion in cross-cutting terms. This budget will, in particular, fund the opening of 3919 services 24 hours a day since September. This is, again, a commitment. [[Ms Cendra Motin and Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey applaud]] Finally, we present you with a solidarity budget, and we are proud to announce that official development assistance will in 2022 represent more than 0.55% of gross national income, which is in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic. Some doubted it, but here too, we are fulfilling our commitments. This budget will increase by EUR 1 billion in 2022 and, on a quinquennium basis, the mission's official development assistance budget will have increased by 70 per cent. This is an increase that no one had made before. Finally, I would like to stress that this budget pays particular attention to all the territories of the Republic. This is the last commitment I would like to remind you, but it is not the least, since it is a matter of making financial relations between the state and local authorities a priority. This budget is characterised, as it has been for the past five years, by the maintenance of the total operating allocation paid by the State to local authorities at EUR 26.8 billion. We have made the choice to maintain, as a first step, the appropriations for the provision of equipment in rural areas and for the allocation of support for local investment, or DSIL, to the tune of EUR 2 billion, as in previous years. I would point out that, as part of the recovery plan, we have spent EUR 2.6 billion on exceptional support for local government investment, in addition to these 2 billion annuals, but we have also recently taken the decision, under the Prime Minister's authority, to abound these EUR 2 billion with an additional EUR 350 million in DSIL for projects included in the recovery and ecological transition contracts, which will therefore bring the investment of the local block – common and inter-community – to EUR 2,350 billion for the year 2022. In the context of financial relations between the State and local authorities, vertical equalisation will also continue to increase by EUR 95 million for the allocation of urban solidarity, and also for the allocation of rural solidarity. In addition, we will devote some additional appropriations to city and land-use policies. For example, we expect an increase of €47 million in funding for the city's policy to finance the deployment of 200 educational cities. In addition, we will increase by EUR 35 million the appropriations of the National Fund for Regional Planning and Development to support the development of new France services houses throughout the country, as well as the implementation of the measures contained in the rural agenda. Last promise kept: business support, which is our political DNA. The text before you contains the tax component of the plan for self-employed workers announced by the President of the Republic on 16 September. We propose a range of measures that meet the needs of entrepreneurs and all of which, in line with the Government's creed, lead to more simplicity in economic life. You will have the opportunity, during the examination of the text, to decide on an amendment by the Government which proposes, in line with the creation of the single statute provided for a separate bill, to offer individual entrepreneurs the possibility of opting for their subjection to corporate tax. Today, they do not have the right to do so, and this is therefore a very favourable measure of coherence for self-employed workers, which will improve their support in the professionalisation of their activity. I would add that the draft law on the financing of social security (PLFSS) which we tabled with Olivier Véran a few moments ago before the Committee on Social Affairs also provides for other measures in the field of social protection and contributions, in order to implement the commitments made by the President of the Republic in the framework of this plan for the self-employed. Ladies and gentlemen, after first trying to demonstrate that this budget is that of the commitments that have been made, I would like, in a second step, to stress that it consolidates our policy in favour of purchasing power. First of all, there are all the achievements of the quinquennium, which we do not question and which we support: the reduction of the corporate tax (IS), on the one hand, so that all companies are eligible at the rate of 25% next year, and the abolition of a second tranche of the housing tax for households whose principal residence is still imposed as such. This represents a tax reduction of around €6 billion in 2022 and will allow us to achieve a total tax reduction of €50 billion on a quinquennium basis – 25 billion for households and 25 billion for businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u56	[[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] As a result of this policy, the tax burden will be the lowest in the last 20 years, as the mandatory levy rate, with a figure of 43.5%, will be below what it was in 2011. This means that with the tax cuts we have proposed, we will have eliminated the tax increases from 2010-11 following the 2008 financial crisis – I would like to remind those who seem to forget that the increase in taxation covered the two previous five-year period. Combined with the revalorisation of labour incomes, which we guarantee and which we accompany each year, this fiscal policy allows us to give purchasing power to French households. In this respect, I am thinking in particular of the increase in the activity premium, which we obviously support, and of the exemptions from wage contributions which you voted for and which allow this increase in purchasing power. I am also thinking, for the 2022 finance bill, of the defiance of the tips paid to employees in the hotel, coffee and catering sector, announced by the President of the Republic, which will be implemented by an amendment co-signed by the members of the Dem Group and the La République group on the move. It must be borne in mind, in terms of balance sheet, that despite the crisis of 2020, despite the epidemic crisis that we have experienced, the purchasing power of French households will increase during this five-year period twice as fast as the average of the two preceding five-year period. This purchasing power given to the French is virtuous in many respects, as we see in the wake of the crisis with the support of consumption. This determined action is therefore continuing, in this finance bill, with the translation of the commitments made by the Prime Minister to preserve the purchasing power of households in the face of the sharp and global rise in gas and electricity prices. As Bruno Le Maire said a moment ago, the Government has tabled an amendment to put in place the tax component of the tariff shield announced on 30 September. It will be complemented by other measures announced by the Prime Minister, which will in particular ensure that the regulated electricity sales tariff will not increase by more than 4% from its level of 1 August 2021. Let me conclude with a few words on the results we expect and which are already reflected in macroeconomic indicators. The fact that our government deficit will be reduced to less than 5% of GDP, half of what we experienced in 2020 and almost half of what we will experience in 2021, is an important point that is also measured in terms of value. Thus, the government deficit is expected to be around EUR 125 billion in 2022, compared to 210 billion this year and last year. In addition, public debt will be stabilized at 114 per cent of GDP. We also manage, with due caution, to return to a level of public expenditure comparable to that of the pre-crisis period. Thus, we have mastered the evolution of public finances in an exceptional context of crisis. As I said a moment ago, the rate of compulsory levies will be reduced to 43.5% and public expenditure around 55% of GDP. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I would point out that, despite all these commitments, we are continuing our efforts to control expenditure: out of urgency and out of recovery, ordinary public expenditure will increase in volume by only 0.8%, which is little or no match to the development we have seen in the first three years of the quinquennium, which has enabled us to meet a number of commitments, such as reducing the deficit below 3%, reducing the burden of public expenditure, reducing the burden of compulsory levies, and stabilising and beginning to reduce the burden of debt. It is this serious budget that has enabled us to give ourselves room for manoeuvre in the face of the crisis. It is the same serious budget that this 2022 finance bill illustrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u57	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u58	This 2022 finance bill is a new piece of legislation given its context, the political choices it contains and its responsibility for the coming years. We are looking at it as our country's economic and fiscal situation improves – which is obviously the result of political choices that we have made since the beginning of this crisis and before. These choices have always been, and continue to be, permitted by the seriousness and control of the budget since the beginning of this legislature. This draft budget is, moreover, in keeping with the policy that we have implemented from the beginning of the legislature – an ambitious, reasonable, responsive and ever-changing policy. As part of a strong economic recovery, this text for 2022 first provides for strong and ambitious budgetary measures, and we demand it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The first of these measures is the end of the "no matter what" era. This principle was necessary and the decisions taken for more than 18 months in this direction enabled our country to go through the crisis, our companies to restore their cash flow, jobs to be safeguarded, local and regional authorities to maintain their level of revenue and to be helped in their exceptional spending, and the most fragile households not to fall into great insecurity. Yes, the "whatever it costs" is a success and, in view of the various collective budgets we have examined in this House, everyone here, in all honesty, can recognize it. It is true that you will still find in this text a mission entitled Emergency Plan. From a technical point of view, there are still some credits to be consumed. However, let us bear in mind that the "whatever it costs" is over, since we have achieved an Act II which is the end of the recovery plan and the beginning of the investment plan. [[New applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] First of all, I will mention the recovery plan. This, too, is a promise kept – a promise that was a challenge: to be able to unlock, disburse and invest EUR 100 billion in two fiscal years. We have done so, and I would like to commend the work that Éric Woerth and I have done as special co-rapporteurs for this mission, an example of trans-party work carried out in the interests of the country at a critical moment, and in no way in the direction of political opposition. I would therefore like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance for his very constructive spirit. This plan should lead to a few redeployments limited in this text and in the budget collective that we will be considering in a few weeks, the draft amending finance bill (PLFR) for the end of management. Again, however, the overall envelope and the overall structure are respected: we have said it and we are doing it. This is not only important in terms of budgetary sincerity and political promises: it is also important for all the players who benefit from the credits from the recovery plan. In fact, businesses in your electoral districts first ask for readability, understanding. Things are, of course, sometimes a little complicated, some thematic and sectoral funds are still a little too much Kafkaian and too many forms still have to be filled, but overall, the recovery plan works – if it didn't work, the funds would not be disbursed at this rate and we would not see such a level of investment in our companies and such a level of jobs recovered. The third essential measure of the text is the implementation of the commitments made in terms of priority public policies. On this point again, I have heard for several weeks that this budget would be too expensive, that we would "burn the caisse" with this finance bill and that we would use France's checkbook to campaign. But look more precisely where the spending increases are! Programming laws were passed long before this summer: the military programming law dates back to the beginning of the legislature,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u59	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u60	...the law of programming for research well before this summer,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u62	...just like the official development assistance programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u63	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u64	All sectoral programming laws...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u65	A law of programming, it's changing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u66	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-François Mattei also applauds]] Maybe, but they're respected! At the end of the legislature, we will go to the end of our commitments and increase the resources of the ministries, particularly those of the Ministry of the Interior, which had been speculated during some previous quinquennats. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have put in place the "no matter what" and we are putting an end to it, we are completing the recovery plan and we are soon starting the investment plan, we have complied with the programming laws and complementary investments in the priority policies. There is, of course, still a high priority in this text: the protection of our most fragile citizens. Here again, let me look a little bit in the rear-view mirror before examining this text. During the crisis, it was too little mentioned, the most fragile of our fellow citizens were accompanied. Remember: in the second amending finance bill, exceptional support for households in great precariousness has been granted; Remember: in the summer of 2020, we increased the exceptional school start-up allowance; Remember: in the fourth amending finance bill for 2020, 250 euros were paid to all fragile households and students in precarious conditions. In total, over the year 2020, we allowed a couple at the RSA to have an additional 1300 net euros to be able to go through this very difficult period. The support of the most fragile households has always been at the heart of our fiscal policy, and we will continue to do so with the finance bill for 2022. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I will give you two very concrete examples. The first is a €200 million measure for the beneficiaries of the allowance for adults with disabilities. I am not talking to you about what we have already done – an increase in the allocation itself during the first three budgets – but about the flat-rate reduction that we announced in this House in the various bills that have been discussed. I would like to repeat this, because this promise is very important: in the end, thanks to these measures, the appropriations for the allowance for adults with disabilities will have increased by EUR 2.4 billion, to EUR 12 billion by 2022. The second example concerns grants based on social criteria – I hope you will vote with us – which are revalued, bringing the overall increase over the five-year period to more than 15%, and the students concerned will continue to benefit from the 1 euro restaurant ticket. Yes, this budget has new spending, yes we are protecting the most fragile, yes we are continuing the recovery, but these measures are obviously accompanied by the fulfilment of a commitment made at the beginning of the quinquennium, that of continuing the reduction of compulsory levies for households and businesses – to a total of 52 billion euros – and 2022 will be another year of a reduction in the tax burden since the rate of compulsory levies will be 43.5 % of GDP. It's historical. No majority has ever been able to recover a country from a crisis by continuing to lower taxes. The removal of the housing tax is already a reality for 80% of our citizens, and it is in progress for the remaining 20%; The reduction in income tax has also been achieved since 2020, as has the reduction in social contributions. In total, this amounts to EUR 25 billion for the benefit of households alone, and also for the companies in our country which are finally competitive, finally attractive, and which, thanks to these tax competitiveness measures, have been able to regain their pre-crisis level of investment, as of the first quarter of 2021,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u68	...and a level of employment beyond what we knew before the crisis. As the Minister of the Economy has rightly said, we can thus aim for full employment within a few years. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These markers, such as private investment, attractiveness, the level of employment – especially of young people – and foreign direct investment are not fantasies: they are concrete. For the second year in a row, France is the country with the most foreign direct investment in Europe. Yes, France is making people dream internationally, and yes, we are creating jobs, thanks to international investments, in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u69	And the trade deficit isn't much?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to conclude by suggesting that there is not a resolutely difficult but resolutely ambitious objective for the restoration of our public finances. That is why I fervently hope that the organic bill that we have written with Eric Woerth will come to an end in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u71	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u72	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u73	This revision of the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLF) is essential in order to obtain a better scoping of our public finances. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, we will also have, in the coming years, whatever the Government and whatever the majority, an obligation and responsibility to that country: in addition to the positive and particularly strong growth we have achieved, structural reforms will remain essential and necessary in that country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u74	There's no way to get the pensions and the unemployed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u75	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u76	After a year of 2020 marked by an unprecedented health crisis, 2021 was the year of recovery and resilience for our country. The relaunch, with the deployment in our territory of 100 billion euros of the recovery plan, of which 30 billion dedicated to the ecological transition. Resilience, with the adoption of new measures to prepare and adapt our society to the challenges of the ecological transition. I think, of course, of course, of the consideration of the bill to combat climate disruption and build resilience to its effects, one of the major laws of this Parliament. Through this text, we have largely complemented the means and tools available to our country to meet its commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. The diversity of the 305 articles contained in this transversal law explains in particular that, at the time of the examination of the first part of this draft budget, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has only taken up one article, Article 8, which aims to encourage the greening of the French fleet. This article is the result of consultations conducted by the Government within the framework of the Marine Fontenoy. In particular, the proposed device allows the deduction of an amount equal to 105 % of the additional fixed costs directly related to the installation of equipment for the use of liquefied natural gas as main propellant energy or for the production of electrical energy. The first objective of Article 8 is to extend the possibility of benefiting from this over depreciation to ships and vessels using compressed natural gas as the main propellant energy or for the production of electrical energy for main propulsion. The removal of the condition imposing a minimum number of ports of call in French ports is the second pillar of Article 8. The aim is to strengthen the means mobilized to combat pollution in maritime areas at the global level. In order to improve the efficiency of the system, our committee has expanded the list of propelling energies eligible for the over-amortization provided for in Article 8. We have also adopted an amendment under which auxiliary decarbonated propulsion can benefit from over-amortization at the rate of 105 %, such as liquefied natural gas. Our committee considered that the last budget of this Parliament was also an opportunity to demonstrate once again our support for the railway. We wanted to reduce its taxation by voting for the gradual abolition of the tax on the result of railway undertakings and the contribution of territorial solidarity. This will result in a gain of around €230 million per year, which corresponds little or no to a reduction in VAT of up to 5.5% on train tickets. New railway pact, recovery of the debt of the SNCF, revival of rail freight, night trains, fine services of the territory: all coherent measures by which we wish to promote the train, the flagship of French innovation, the flagship of sustainable spatial planning. This dynamic is necessary for our territories, for our economy, for better and, above all, more virtuous transport offers. So, together, let's keep giving the train a head start. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Since 2017, the Committee on Sustainable Development, which I have the honour to represent here, has played its full role and has taken note of great progress. This last budget of the legislature gives him the opportunity to reaffirm his pride, his long-standing commitments to sustainable development that accompanies our fellow citizens, especially the most modest and for concerted land-use planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u77	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u78	This finance bill must be appreciated in the wake of the crisis. If there had been no crisis, figures such as those presented in this text would obviously be disastrous. They are not if one considers the power of the crisis and its effects. However, it must be noted that it is becoming very difficult, if not impossible, to compare the objectives of this text with previous commitments. This can be seen, for example, when the High Council for Public Finance tries to measure deviations from the programming law, which has become by force completely obsolete. Contrary to what some people say, I do not think it is an insinuating budget: I would rather call it an incomplete budget, because you do not have all of your measures in it. This budget, Mr rapporteur-general, is new to what it does not contain. We usually talk about "holes in the racket" – it has almost become an expression dedicated to the National Assembly – but we should talk about it, not about holes but about craters! The truth is that this crisis has caused almost every point of reference to be lost to everyone and it is dangerous, very dangerous to no longer have any reference points. Pandora's box was opened, the one that frees all the ills of public finances, especially that of the increase in expenditure. Indeed, you have announced not only amendments that will significantly increase spending, such as the investment plan, which is to be presented tomorrow by the President of the Republic, the extension, if I have understood correctly, of the young guarantee, but also important amendments in terms of declining revenue, such as the one that modifies electricity taxes – and perhaps other things. In short, we have moved from the end of partial unemployment to a partial budget! You could have contented yourself with a few articles: an introductory article, articles of revenue and expenditure and some articles of balance: you would have presented the shortest budget of the Fifth Republic because, you will agree, the few articles of the text as it was tabled will not revolutionize much. It is true that the last budget before the presidential election is rarely revolutionary, but one can have a certainty: all the important measures that will be included in the text to be adopted in December will have been introduced by amendment during the discussion, probably late and under conditions that do not allow parliamentarians to assess these proposals or, probably, to amend them. You have the right to do so, but it is an unsatisfactory way to build a budget. In this budget, we are lurking with illusions, in the first place that we are going to catch up next year with the level of wealth that was ours before the crisis. In your opinion, Minister, thanks to a growth of 6.25% in 2021 and 4% in 2022, France will have restored the wealth removed in 2020. Yet the numbers make you wrong. The cumulative loss of wealth between 2020 and 2021, which we will probably never catch, is in the range of 280 to 300 billion euros. While it is true that the level of GDP that we will reach at the end of 2021 will be nominally higher than in 2019, it will still be 85 billion euros lower than it would have been in 2021 if we had not experienced a crisis. Secondly, there is the illusion that public spending is falling, and this is a curious paradox. It is true that, in this PLF that accompanies the exit from the crisis, public expenditure is in decline, with a view to reducing by EUR 30 billion next year as a result of the cessation of support and recovery measures. After reaching nearly 157 billion euros accumulated in 2020 and 2021, it is expected that only 28 billion euros will be left to deal with the crisis in 2022. But behind this overall reduction in public spending, there is a 32 billion euro increase in ordinary expenditure, that is to say, out of urgency and recovery, like the Segur of Health for example. In other words, spending should have fallen by 60 billion if ordinary spending had not continued its inexorable growth on their side! This is not a question of pointing to the natural increase in expenditure, but rather of the acceleration of expenditure under the influence of political decisions. Over the past three years, the trend has been sharply increasing: ordinary spending has increased by EUR 100 billion between 2020 and 2022. You have thus accelerated regular spending during the crisis in comparison to the usual standard of expenditure increases. Yet we were entitled to expect you to have greater control of our life course in times of crisis, because we cannot guarantee the increase of ordinary expenditure by the reduction of exceptional expenditure! By increasing ordinary expenditure, there is a risk of a structural increase in public expenditure, which is growing over time. On the other hand, the end of the "no matter what" must not be transformed for the state into a permit to spend without constraint. Today, billions don't mean much anymore. The French are led to believe that any claim can be satisfied. It is a real popular pressure on spending now, whereas it should be the opposite in the wake of the crisis. Indeed, while government spending is expected to decrease by 40 billion next year as a result of the near-disappearance of the Recovery Plan mission, the government's pilotable spending is expected to increase by 11 billion euros in 2022, and probably more in light of what you will announce in the coming days. These are the additional means for justice, the interior, research. This increase of 11 billion is close to the average level of government expenditure growth, which raises questions: why should the level of spending be as high as normal, as if the crisis had not taken place? While spending should not be cut too sharply, it is not necessary to accelerate the increase in current expenditure. On the contrary, investment expenditure should be given priority and sudden breaks should be avoided. It must be admitted that there is a dark part in the increase in public spending in 2022. The growth rate of public expenditure, excluding emergency support and recovery measures, is expected to rise by 0.8% in volume next year, at a pace close to that recorded before the crisis in 2018 and 2019. However, if we look more closely at the structure of our general government deficit in 2022, we find that of these 4.8%, only 0.1% of the deficit comes from the cyclical balance. Interestingly, in 2019, the last year before the crisis, the cyclical balance was even slightly higher than in 2022. In other words, our public deficit is now almost 100% structural and is only composed of sustainable measures, which means that political choices have been made that have a lasting impact on the balance and that it will be all the more difficult to go back. The government's revenue is expected to reach €311 billion in 2022, of which €292 billion is tax revenue, up more than €13 billion compared to €2021, and thus return to pre-crisis levels. This year, tax revenues will even increase by €20 billion compared to the initial finance law (LFI) for 2021. This is good news for public finances, especially since growth, as you said, will be stronger in 2021. Although insufficient, this level of revenue limits the deficit, especially as GDP growth almost halved in 2022, from 6.25% to 4%. Caution is more than necessary today, with the risk of straw burning growing. You also highlight the increase in household purchasing power at a rate twice as high as under the previous two quinquennats. Of course, the French have gained purchasing power, which is good news: while France was undergoing a recession of 8%, the French have seen their purchasing power preserved, or even slightly increased on average – and we know that this average does not cover all French. On the other hand, the debt burden per capita at the end of the Macron quinquennium will have increased by almost two times compared to the end of the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy, from 28000 euros per capita to 44000 euros. In this case, the good news for purchasing power does not make good public accounts, especially since this renewed purchasing power is clearly not perceived by the majority of our citizens. We see it every day when we talk with them: they estimate that their purchasing power has declined since 2017, due to the explosion of energy and housing costs. You should send a number of strong and clear signals to restore our public finances. When are you going to draw up a plan to safeguard our public finances? Let us set our sights, and first of all, by adopting a law for the programming of genuine public finances. Secondly, we must amend certain rules, particularly at Community level, with the Maastricht criteria which have become completely obsolete, but also at the level of the LOLF. The rapporteur-general has indicated this, and you have also said, Minister, it is very important to amend the LOLF to inform the public debate on public expenditure. The logic of means must give way to a logic of efficiency of expenditure, since the volume of expenditure does not make its quality. Most importantly, I think that investment logic should prevail over operating logic, i.e. current expenditure. Why not stick also to a new principle, according to which spending should increase twice as fast as growth, outside of a crisis period? But if the rules are to move, nothing can replace political will. You must assume and announce a number of profound reforms to our social model and our spending model. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Spending is not reform. However, this PLF is much more the expression of expenditure than of reforms. Growth is at the heart of your speech, but controlling public spending should be at the same time. Because today's President is hiring tomorrow's President, can you tell us how you plan to restore our nation's finances in a sustainable manner?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u79	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u80	[["Oh! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have received a motion from Mr Damien Abad and members of the Republicans' Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u81	The truth now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u82	Incomplete budget, insinuating budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u83	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u84	Probably both, Minister, Minister Delegate. Incomplete, that's a certainty. The rapporteur-general estimates the missing expenditure at EUR 6 billion, but he does not take everything into account, despite his concern for the truth, because he cannot keep up with the infernal pace of presidential promises. As for the High Council for Public Finance, it considers itself, and this is a first, unable to "declare on the plausibility of the 2022 deficit forecast". Insinuately, the budget is also within the meaning of article 32 of the 2001 Organic Act, as well as the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u85	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u86	But the ministers tell us that they will correct this budget. Mr. Rapporteur-General, your role will be essential in order to avoid difficulties for the Government. Can you assure us right now that you will require impact assessments prior to the late tabling of government amendments in the second part, which will heavily affect the future of our public spending? Will your majority vote without questioning the stealthy amendment to create a young RSA, when, for twenty years, no government has wanted to embark on this unresponsible path?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u88	Will your majority vote without questioning the launch of an investment plan of several tens of billions of euros? Will it be satisfied with a simple letter of intent without any idea of the precise content of these investments? And what will she think of the skills investment plan? Mr rapporteur-general, be demanding. Protect our assembly from the contempt of this government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u89	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u90	...because I only imagine too much the manipulation that is being prepared – a first for me, despite my long experience of this house. As a first step, you will vote for the 18 articles of this first part of the finance law and, in a second step, the general balance article 19 of the budget providing for a deficit of 143.4 billion euros. Then, a few days later, by a pass-by, the Government will add, in the second part, 6 billion additional expenses. At the same time, he will discover that he can find additional revenue or even realize some savings and, o miracle, this will be the last time: the budget deficit of 143.4 billion will remain virtually unchanged. I do not imagine, indeed, Minister Le Maire, after all you have told us, that you are going during the discussion to degrade this colossal budget deficit. Mr General, I hope that you will avoid such unfair behaviour towards our House and in my eyes, and I hope that if this scenario were to happen, the Constitutional Council will adjust its jurisprudence on budgetary sincerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] You who were carrying the sincerity of the budget in your shoulder, expressing the acerbic criticisms that we remember against the sub-budgetizations of the last budget of the Dutch era and presenting you as the true holders of the sincerity of the budget, you are not doing better, and I think you are even doing worse! The most serious, indeed, is not the short term of 2022; the most serious, all these commitments of several tens of billions of dollars will weigh on future budgets. If the ministers do not present us with the multi-year plan for these 2022 commitments, can you, rapporteur-general, inform us before we consider the government's amendments in session? Will you even have time? Inseverity is also your refusal to rework the January 2018 law on public finance programming. It is obsolete, with the structural balance 2022 falling by three points of GDP compared to the forecast, while a mere 0.5 point gap should trigger a revision of the law. We are in this paradoxical situation where in 2022 you flatter yourself with respecting the various laws of spending on defence, research, official development assistance, justice, while you throw the nettles the only law of programming that counts, the one that takes us on a path of recovery of our public finances. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Clearly, this draft budget comes from one choice and one choice: that of the flight forward in public spending and in debt. In just three years, not to mention the appropriations for economic support and recovery, made necessary by the health crisis, public expenditure in all sectors, ordinary public expenditure, as the Court of Auditors calls it, will have increased by EUR 100 billion. That's the record for the last fifteen years! In 2022, public spending will amount to 57% of GDP, two points higher than in 2019, making us the winners of the League of European Nations and even world champions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u93	It's true there wasn't the covid!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u94	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In a spirit of responsibility, the LR group approved without a state of mind all the amending financial laws that opened up credits, whether for the Solidarity Fund, for partial activity, for support to companies or for households in difficulty, because we thought that these measures were necessary and properly calibrated to deal with the health crisis. But how could we approve of the spending drift of this last budget of the legislature? How could we accept the major risk that over-indebtedness will put our country at risk? It is not in fact by confining 165 billion euros of covid debt that we will alleviate the burden: it is only the budgetary cosmetics fed by political ulterior motives, let us say. Who can seriously give the slightest credit to this promise to set aside for 20 years to repay this debt 6% of the annual increase in revenue? You are making fun of us, you who have already extended the repayment of social debt to the Social Debt Depreciation Fund (CADES) for ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u95	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u96	Good thing we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u97	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Excamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] When we take stock of this Parliament on the occasion of this last budget, one thing must be said: not a single structural reform has been carried out to correct our public accounts. Colleagues, this is the first time in 30 years that nothing has been done for pensions. In 2010, there was the courageous reform led by Eric Woerth; In 2014, there was the one led by Marisol Touraine. With you, there was nothing: nothing! In 2017, remember, President Macron made a commitment to reduce the workforce of the state and its operators by 50,000. And what about almost five years later? The number of staff has increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u98	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u99	[[New exclamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's choice of debt poses the greatest dangers to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u100	Do you mind the truth, colleagues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u101	All this is so laughable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u102	Mrs. Verdier-Jouclas, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u103	This is unique to France. The other euro area countries refused to do so. None of them, Mr. Le Maire, agreed that debt relief could only begin in 2027, as envisaged by the debt president, President Emmanuel Macron. The parallel with Germany, which you know well, Minister, and with the euro area is eloquent. When the 2008 financial crisis hit, France, Germany and the other euro area countries had on average the same debt ratio, around 60% of GDP. By the end of 2011, it was around 85% to 90% for these same countries, indicating a similar pattern. However, for the past ten years, the gap has been widening. By the end of 2022, public debt would reach 114 per cent in France, compared with only 70 per cent in Germany. And throughout the euro area, it is decreasing. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, under this legislature, before the health crisis started, we had an honorable rate of growth, around 2%, but France did not despair. She just stabilized the debt just below 100% of GDP by playing on the issue premiums, a subject that we know well about you and me, Mr. de Courson. In total, during this term, our public debt will have increased by 680 billion euros. Sad record! The question is: Can the magic money of unlimited debt continue to flow? I do not think so because the economic and political context is changing. First, inflation starts again. Your forecast – plus 1.5% in 2022 – seems optimistic to me at a time when the price of energy and raw materials and even the price of services go away, at a time when bottlenecks are increasing, whether in terms of labour or supplies. Let us not forget that inflation in Germany has just reached 4%. In these circumstances, I am therefore confident that the central banks, including the ECB – the European Central Bank –, which is less accommodative, will tighten their policies, which will lead to an inevitable rise in interest rates. Since France has become the weakest link in the euro area, it will therefore be the most vulnerable. Our country is the only country whose budget is still in primary deficit. Spain and Italy do better than we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u104	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u105	I don't have time to talk more about the gulf of our trade deficit – 90 billion euros! – which shows how far we are still far from regaining competitiveness. The political change in Germany, the renegotiation of the Maastricht criteria, the governance of the euro will place us in a situation of great vulnerability when we must find again, in 2022, 260 billion euros in the financial markets to finance both the deficit and the capital that is coming to an end. Faced with the fragility to which our country is exposed, the answer, ministers, cannot only be the flight forward in public spending and the absence of reform. The legacy of this legislature will be very heavy to bear. If we want to avoid a similar stranglehold at the turn of the 1983 austerity, if we want to preserve our financial sovereignty, membership of the euro area will not be enough. We must give guarantees of responsibility and serious budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u107	[[Charles de Courson applauds]] That is why I am calling for the rapid introduction of a golden rule in the field of public finances. Éric Woerth and Laurent Saint-Martin have just done a very useful work on the modernization of the LOLF and the organic law of December 2012. However, their proposals are not sufficient: we need a constitutional level rule that imposes a multi-year path of gradual return to balance on the laws of finance and social security financing. This reform, Mr. Le Maire, you have just discovered the interest. That said, you also discovered earlier that nuclear energy was a decarbonized energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u108	A little good faith, Mr. Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u109	Minister, you will have the opportunity to respond later. For the time being, only Mr Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u110	Yes, but he's talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u111	Minister, since you think I'm telling anything,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u112	I'll confirm it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u113	...I will make a very specific proposal: let us work on the basis of the constitutional bill that we voted in the same terms in the National Assembly and the Senate in July 2011. The Act established three-year framework public finance laws with constitutional primacy over annual financial laws, subject to certain conditions. Let us go further and coordinate these framework laws with the new governance rules that will be put in place in the euro area. Due to the over-indebtedness that you did not want to correct, the amount of public debt reached at the end of 2022 nearly 3000 billion euros. And if we add the cumulation of the emission premiums,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u114	A hundred billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u115	...which actually amounts to 100 billion, Mr. de Courson, we're over 3,000 billion. France is therefore no longer immune from a financial crisis that would call into question its sovereignty as well as its social model and that would lead to brutal measures penalising the most fragile, like what happened in Italy and Spain, during the 2011-2012 sovereign debt crisis. This finance bill is short-sighted, as if there were to be elections in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u116	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – MM. Charles de Courson and Michel Zumkeller also applaud]] It puts our country's public finances at risk. That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this motion for a preliminary rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u118	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u120	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Carrez, I have discovered you disloyal and insinuating, to use your own words. Finally, that you were disloyal, I had discovered much earlier, when you had tabled on a night without a moon an amendment rejecting the privatisation of Paris Airports (ADP), a measure proposed by your own political family a few years earlier, which amounted to depriving us of 8 billion euros of revenue for the debt-debt of France. It's not consistency that stifles you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u122	I had already opposed the privatisation of motorways because it was not financially justified!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u123	You claim that nuclear power would be a discovery for me; I remind you that during my political career, over the last ten years, I have always defended nuclear energy as a guarantee of independence for our country and a guarantee of the success of the ecological transition. So I have no lessons to learn from you on this point, Mr Carrez.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u124	You gave us a lot of lessons earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u125	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You're still teaching us, Mr. Carrez, talking about running forward. Should I recall that you were rapporteur-general from 2002 to 2012, when the debt increased from 60 per cent to 90 per cent of national wealth? [[Same movements]] Do I have to remind you that you finished your task as rapporteur-general with a debt that had increased by 30 points, leaving us at the same time unemployment to almost 11% and growth to zero? Good result, rapporteur-general!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u126	Do I have to remind you that you were a member of the government at the same time, Mr. Le Maire? A minister seems more important to me than a general rapporteur, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u127	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have increased the public debt, it is true, but, ladies and gentlemen, the majority, if you have done so, if we have done so, it is to protect the French, to protect the employees, to protect the companies and to leave unemployment at less than 8% and growth at more than 6%! You have the front to tell us, Mr Carrez, that we have not done any structural reform! You seem to forget that some reforms have even voted with us. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have reformed the labour market; you have had the courage to reduce the number of jobs assisted, an easy solution used by previous majorities; you have put in place the law on enterprise growth and transformation (PACTE) and reduced the social thresholds of enterprises;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u128	What about pension reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u129	... you have made this tax reform that was essential to restore the competitiveness of businesses;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u130	What about pension reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u131	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] ... you have also had the courage, you, to remove the tax on wealth (ISF); you have had the courage to reduce corporate tax to 25% for all businesses; You have had the courage to do what Mr Carrez has been demanding for ten years and has never done: the single flat-rate levy at the rate of 30% on personal income. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You have also embarked on a reform of unemployment insurance. It is true that we did not launch the pension system, but I think it would have been inconsistent and dangerous to take this path when France was experiencing the most serious economic crisis that it has experienced since 1929. We say it in the open and we assume it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We would not have had the level of growth that I can announce today, 6.25%, if, precisely, this majority had not been the most reformist in power in 20 years. You're telling me about Germany, Mr Carrez, a country I'm pretending to know a little bit, just like his future chancellor, Mr Olaf Scholz. I assure you that we will work well with our German partners, as we have worked well with them for four years, and as the President of the Republic has worked well with Chancellor Angela Merkel; But I want to say to the French who listen to us that if we are committed to restoring our public finances, it is not to please Berlin. We will restore our public finances because it is good for France; we will restore our public finances because we need to regain financial reserves to deal with a possible new health or economic crisis, such as the one we have experienced; We will restore our public finances because we owe it to all our euro area partners, without exception, because it was the euro that protected us during this crisis and it was the European Central Bank that allowed us to debt at the lowest rates. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So, Mr. Carrez, I prefer a courteous and serene debate to your protests of insinuity and disloyalty that are only fuelling our discussions and that prevent us from clarifying the 2022 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u132	You weren't a member of the majority, were you, from 2007 to 2012?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u133	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u134	Exceptionally, and since Mr Carrez has personally asked me in his speech, I will take the floor before the explanations of vote. I agree in all respects with the minister, and I will say things quite calmly because it is also the role of the rapporteur-general – I am not going to tell you, Mr Carrez – to ensure that the debates are calm and courteous, particularly during the consideration of the finance bills. When I took on the noble role of rapporteur-general of the budget, the first thing I did was look at the archives of my predecessors to understand how they had exercised their role. And I must tell you in all sincerity, Mr. Carrez, I think you were one of the best I've ever known. The Gilles Carrez I heard in the gallery is not the Gilles Carrez I was with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u135	We have to accept the controversy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u136	You have stood up against promises of a stage and against insinuity. But I remember having been confronted with this very thing that you are denouncing without it making you warm or cold as rapporteur-general. Is it worth recalling, for example, that the reform of the trade tax, excuse me for a little, was done by way of a government amendment while you were in charge of these functions? It's not a little reform, it seems to me. I will tell you what I think of this way of proceeding by way of a government amendment, because it is the substance that matters. As I have already said, and I say again, I would always prefer the Government to propose a well-linked, well-structured, well-targeted, useful amendment for the country, rather than obsessing with the desire to include all the provisions in its original bill, at the risk that they will not be sufficiently prepared. You and I, like all of our colleagues, are concerned about protecting Parliament. That is how we feel that all the provisions are available before the discussion of the text so that we can look at them in good conditions: I agree with you on this. On the other hand, I confirm that I have already asked the Government – I will do it again before you – to produce an impact assessment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u137	All right, that's what we're asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u138	... so that we have the most precise details so that we can vote with full knowledge of the facts. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In substance, I agree with you. But please refrain from any political comments, such as those you have made in denouncing the fact that we can introduce new elements by way of an amendment! Yes, I prefer new elements that are well prepared and effective rather than vague budgetary appropriations – to which you would have rightly opposed, because of their inaccuracy, if they had been found in the original text. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, and without wishing to paraphrase what the Minister of Finance said earlier, for pity, no lessons on the rise of public debt! From 2007 to 2009, you made more than 120 billion euros of additional expenditure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u139	At the time, it was the same in Germany, while there the public finances of the two states diverge! That's the difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] If you want us to do a contest to find out who has increased the debt the most, I tell you right away, you lose: you're the one who posted the biggest increase. And with the help of the one who made the right debt, useful to the rebound of employment and to our country, we are the ones who win. For my part, I think that, rather than holding political speeches and engaging in these small binary games, we would be better off using your experience and that of your colleagues to improve this text together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u141	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u142	[["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are going to vote on this motion of rejection tabled by our colleagues in the Republican Group, although we did not fully share its terms. I thought, listening to Mr.Carrez and Minister Le Maire, that the time of great love between the majority and the Republicans, when they both defended the same objectives, did seem to have passed. If, for our part, we will vote on the motion to reject the bill tabled by the Republicans, it is because this finance bill is still incomplete at the time of its consideration in public session. Indeed, we are suspended from the decisions of the President of the Republic on commitment income for young people and on a potential investment plan of 30 billion euros. It is indeed an unprecedented organization, as has been said, but once again despises national representation. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] In substance, this finance bill is in keeping with the precedents, i.e. the logic of an economic policy for the rich, which ignores social and environmental issues. Again this year, the first part of the PLF will not include any solidarity tax measures after the health crisis. On the other hand, it will find the continuation of the reductions in compulsory levies previously voted for the richest and for large companies. There will be no extension of the RSA to the younger ones, but only a small extension for the youth guarantee, which is very insufficient in the face of current challenges. There will be no funding for the ecological transition – several tens of billions of euros – including energy renewal and transport. In the face of an incomplete text in its form that does not respond to the substantive issues, we can only vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u143	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u144	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u145	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] It floats a scent of presidential election that seems to have made you abandon the sincerity we've known you for four years, Mr. Carrez.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u146	Accept the contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u147	There will be no young RSA, and you know that: we want a contract of engagement with young people. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have always valued the work, and we should find ourselves on this point. As far as investment plans are concerned, you who say you're a girdin, would you suddenly want everything to fall from the sky? The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which we admire so much, where do you think its investment projects come from, if not from the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u148	We just want information, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u149	That is how we build an intelligent investment plan, starting from the ground, not waiting for everything to fall from the sky, and the Government's amendment on this point takes it into account. As far as the skills plan in companies is concerned, it is they who ask us! Go see them, they will tell you that this plan has been thought with them and for them. The programming law you call your vows, do you really think it's a good idea six months from the end of the legislature, when such a law would hire us for several years? Since the beginning of the health crisis, we have had the honesty to say that the current law of programming was no longer valid, not because we were not holding on to our commitments, but because of this crisis of an unprecedented scale, which caused an increase in debt and an unprecedented drop in GDP – even in 2008, it had not fallen as much, as the minister said very well. When you tell us you have to save money, I'd like you to clarify how...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u150	Pensions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u151	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...because, until now, insinuity is on your side, especially with the amendments you have proposed to us in committee, aimed at the application of reduced VAT rates and the abolition of taxes – more and more expenditure, in fact. So, what savings would you like to make?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u152	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u153	I would just like to respond to a few questions that were heard in the defence of Gilles Carrez' motion of rejection. Mr rapporteur-general, when you say that you prefer the Government's amendments, let us say that we too would prefer these amendments to be accompanied by impact studies, but that is not the case! Thus, an amendment by the Government aims to introduce, following the abolition of the housing tax, compensation for disadvantaged municipalities: if you had made an impact assessment, you would have seen the problem before! When you say, minister, that Gilles Carrez has been unfair, I remind you that he has mentioned an incomplete and insinuating budget, two perfectly justified qualifiers – the second because of your amendments, as the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance clearly shows. The truths are painful, the reactions of the majority have confirmed it to us. We are not in communication, but in the truth, in the figures, concrete elements that cannot be interpreted in the sense that we want. When Mrs Motin tells us that the programming law would have engaged Parliament beyond the current legislature, I remind her that in January 2018, we passed a finance law program, and that the government did not take away from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u154	Very little! As little as possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u155	[[Ms. Véronique Louwagie applauds]] A trajectory had been defined and was not respected. In solidarity with our colleague and friend Gilles Carrez, we will vote for the motion to reject him in advance, because she denounces all the amalgams made in the context of this electoral pre-campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u156	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u157	Ladies and gentlemen of the rejection, why this motion to reject beforehand? Why reject our massive support for households and purchasing power, why reject our will to bounce back our businesses and save jobs? And frankly, what are you proposing instead? Our commitment, long before the crisis, was to increase the purchasing power of the French and to allow the development of our businesses by lowering the taxes of households and businesses by 50 billion. Since the crisis, we have kept this course of action, which has saved household jobs and maintained the activity of our businesses, no matter what the cost. It is therefore a budget that is consistent with our commitments, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the rejection, it is because we have taken the right decisions from the outset that the confidence of the players in our economy is now preserved and even strengthened. I say it as I think it is the investment that will allow the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u158	What about your mask?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u159	We do not lose sight of the golden rule, but, given interest rates close to zero or even negative, it would be irresponsible not to resort to long-term financing. In just one year, we were able to fill the loss of activity in 2020, despite the unprecedented violence of the crisis; unemployment, which appeared to be endemic in 2010, has been at its peak for a month at the end of 2019. I know that your only comparison is that of the 2008 crisis, during which many of you decided to increase the compulsory household levies very strongly, killing in the egg any potential recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u160	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u161	So, please, spare us your lessons on the maintenance of public accounts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u162	Yeah, let's go, let's do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u163	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our group will vote against this motion to reject, because we believe in the sincerity of the budget before us. In conclusion, let me remind you that our government is presenting a green budget for the second year in a row.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u164	Before I give the floor to Mrs Claudia Rouaux, I would like to remind you that if wearing the mask is not mandatory in the gallery of this House, it is mandatory in the spans. You have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u165	As our colleague Gilles Carrez – an experienced parliamentarian if any – has said, this PLF is similar to a presidential campaign budget, a budget with holes where 35 billion euros are missing, corresponding to the various promises made in response to the movements of the President and his government, including the plan for Marseille, the commitment income for young people, insurance for climate hazards, the France 2030 investment plan, etc. This budget raises questions from the High Council for Public Finance, which, for the first time in its young history, refused to assess the credibility of the expenditure component – that is to say. After this health and economic crisis, the social crisis is underlying it. This year, 1 million Frenchmen – students, temporary workers and workers – have turned into poverty. You have carried a series of reforms that give the most disadvantaged a sense of abandonment: that of personalized housing assistance (APL), which has enabled the state to save 4 billion euros since 2017, but also the reform of unemployment insurance, whose effects are not yet measured. In addition to this, the rise in energy prices, which you have not sufficiently anticipated and which you do not propose to compensate for the popular and middle classes – what the Prime Minister proposes is not to increase the prices of gas and electricity from now on, without making any compensation for the increases of the last few months. If we do not agree with everything that Gilles Carrez has said, we agree with him on two points: it is an electoral budget and a budget with holes, derogating for the Members we are. A third important element justifies for us the rejection of your budget: the absence of measures to ensure that those who could contribute – because, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional revenues. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Alain Bruneel also applauds]] I would like to call on our two ministers to be more honest and humble, because one was part of the government under Nicolas Sarkozy and the other under François Hollande. As for the rapporteur-general, I want to tell him that it is possible to provide for well-prepared and effective arrangements in the text of the PLF, without having to resort to amendments tabled at a later stage. For all these reasons, we will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u166	What a great complicity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u167	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u168	We are surprised to see that this motion of rejection has been tabled by our colleagues in the Republicans for a number of reasons. First of all, because the budget before us meets the objectives that they have always put forward – the rearmament of the regalian, the rise of investment and fiscal stability – to which the three pillars of this PLF meet. Colleagues The Republicans, you are asking for more resources for the police, justice, national education and the armies: this is what this PLF proposes. You are asking that recovery and investment be put at the heart of the State's strategy: this is what this PLF proposes. Finally, households and businesses demand tax stability and visibility: this is what this PLF proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u169	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u170	You might think the crisis didn't happen. Yes, the law of public finance programming is outdated, but there is a crisis that has had to be amortized and that has come to upset the management of our public finances. On volume expenditures, therefore, acknowledge that they would increase by only 0.8% in 2022, which is the average growth between 2007 and 2012. While we are all fully aware of the need to tighten the budgetary stance once the crisis has passed and the recovery of the economy has been confirmed, we are also convinced that the time has not yet come. Objectively, in our place you wouldn't either. The level of debt is linked to the measures of protection and support that we have implemented for the French and our economy, and we collectively assume it. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, with regard to the incompleteness of the bill, it is in no way an insinuating text, which it would be legitimate to reject beforehand on that basis. Yes, the crisis and its exit impose decisions and choices, and they will be voted in this finance bill for 2022. We refuse to deprive ourselves of a substantive debate on a matter as important as the state budget and will therefore vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u171	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u172	The UDI-I Group will vote on this motion of rejection. Gilles Carrez asked a lot of questions that I'm not all going to take over, but there are two topics that we think are very important. The first is contempt for Parliament. The investment plan may be a very good thing, I would like to believe it, but for the time being, we do not know; Therefore, I do not believe that the process used is acceptable. On this subject, it would be in the interest of everyone, including the majority, to involve all groups in the discussion. As of tomorrow, the President of the Republic will announce this investment plan – which he has clearly decided and prepared himself – from which Parliament will in fact be excluded. It is not acceptable that in the eyes of our fellow citizens, Members of the European Parliament should not be used for anything: such a statement can only fuel populism, which no one has an interest in. The second issue is debt, and it is no longer time to blame each other for digging it: today, the debt is there, and the real question is how to reduce it. For my part, I see nothing to answer this question in the budget before us – at most EUR 1.9 billion when there is 165 billion to repay. At this rate, it will take us a hundred years to repay the covid debt: ladies and gentlemen, do you think that is reasonable? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Instead of invective, we would do better to work to reduce this debt, which we will all report to the French who are born today, because they will want answers other than the kind of circus to which we give the impression of delivering ourselves. Because this draft budget is not sincere, I repeat, we will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u173	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u174	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u175	In the parliamentary life of the Fifth Republic, it is a drawing of lots that decides on the name of the colleague responsible for presenting the motion of rejection: the responsibility for it therefore lies not with a Member of Parliament, but with the Group of the Republicans. [[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I say it without ambiguity and with great respect: I do not adhere to the arguments developed by Gilles Carrez. However, we will support this motion, because we are also opposed to the bill. The laughers have obviously not followed the course of our budgetary debates for almost four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u176	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u177	[[Mrs. Caroline Fiat applauds. – New exclamations on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Again, we will not vote in favour of the argument associated with the motion for rejection, but in favour of it, that is, against the text. We will not give you the gift of voting for a draft budget that we do not approve! [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] The instructions were well received: you did not fail to laugh when the minister taught Gilles Carrez on the point of consistency. The thing was indeed quite tasty because, dear Bruno, it was you who once declared: "Emmanuel Macron is the candidate without a project because he is the candidate without convictions: he changes his speech according to the audience. You certainly have the right to criticise Mr Carrez, but to denounce his alleged lack of consistency on the grounds that he did not fully defend the same positions a few years ago, it is exciting on your part, as on the part of a number of people on these benches! [[Same movements]] Let us go back to the main point, that is to say, the draft budget. He's not up to the situation. Although you're plastronning, poverty has increased in this country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u178	Colleagues, we are listening to Mr Corbière, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u179	[[Mr Bruno Questel exclaimed]] ...and you will answer to the voters. Nearly 11 million of our citizens today live below the poverty line, nearly 8 million are forced to resort to humanitarian aid associations! You can cut me off: it is a lack of respect for the French that you have put in this situation! The number of RSA beneficiaries is growing significantly; on the other hand,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u180	Thank you, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u181	...the richest 500 Frenchmen...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u182	Mr Corbière, your time has expired. Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u183	First, minister, a preliminary remark: Have you forgotten your involvement in the Fillon government's fiscal policy, which you blame today? You were Secretary of State for European Affairs from 13 December 2008 to 23 June 2009 and then Minister of Agriculture from that date to 10 May 2012, I would like to remind you. A little modesty and caution would therefore be welcome in your remarks. In addition, would you like me to remind you of your statements about candidate Macron, when you presented yourself to the primaries of the right and center?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u184	Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u185	It is not necessary: our colleague Corbière has done so. [[Alain Ramadier applauds]] Secondly, Gilles Carrez is right about the budgetary drift – I will come back to it at a later stage – but also when he calls on all of us, and not just the opposition members, to introduce the rules of multi-annual public finance management at the organic level. Our group will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject beforehand, in order to allow the Government to table a new finance bill incorporating in particular the expenses that must be announced tomorrow morning and which the press estimates to be 4 billion euros. In other words, Minister, it is to help you that we will support this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u186	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u187	We reject her with force!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u188	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 77 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 17 Against 60
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u189	In the general debate, Mr Alain Bruneel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u190	We are here to discuss this Parliament's last finance bill, in order to take stock of an economic policy that, for five years, has favoured the wealthy and the business sector, deteriorated the purchasing power of popular households, let hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens fall into poverty and neglected the ecological bifurcation. The self-satisfaction which inspires the words of the minister, the minister delegate and the rapporteur general, the French, in the vast majority, do not understand it. According to a recent survey, 58% of them do not feel satisfied with economic policy over the past five years. Of course, many do not hear your speech about tax cuts and purchasing power: it must be said that these famous tax cuts did not benefit everyone in the same way – I will come back – and that, at the same time, you did nothing to counter the increase in the main French spending, such as housing and energy. In the long run, the popular and middle classes do not find themselves there. What marks us the most, however, is the increase in inequalities, which you seem to have nothing to do with, and those too many French people who fall into poverty. The additional million poor resulting from the health crisis is often cited, but there are more precise figures: for example, the departments claim that their RSA spending increased by 9.5 per cent in 2020 – a pre-crisis trajectory, since the poverty rate had reached 14.6 per cent, i.e. the 1979 level. Behind these abstract data, there are women and men to whom you started, barely arrived in power, by withdrawing 5 euros from APL,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u191	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u192	... before abandoning them, at the heart of the health crisis, refusing to increase the RSA or extend it to the under 25s. At the other end of the chain, on the contrary, a small elite can feel very satisfied with your policy, because it is for it that you have been governing for five years now. At the same time as the APL, you reduced the compulsory levies, before reforming the capital tax: abolition of the solidarity tax on capital and the exit tax, creation of the flat tax, i.e. capping taxes on capital income, i.e. at least €4 billion in annual gifts. As an article published by INSEE in September rightly pointed out, these reforms have further enriched the wealthiest 5% of the population, thanks to the fall in taxes but also, and above all, to the sharp increase in dividends. Here we are far from the reality of the average Frenchman, to whom you claim to have returned 25 billion taxes. These policies had no impact on investment: this was a planned fact, confirmed by the studies commissioned by France Stratégie, which concluded that it was impossible to establish a link between capital tax reforms and an increase in investment or job creation. To say the opposite, as you do regularly, is therefore a fable. The decline in compulsory levies is in line with a logic that is particularly ideological, consisting not only in reducing the taxes of the richest, but also in reducing the place of the state in the economy. In five years of reform, 50 billion will be missing each year from the state budget: 25 billion from the household side, half of which for the richest; and another 25 billion on the business side, mainly the largest, which benefited more from the fall in production taxes and that of the higher rate of the IS. Combined with traditional blackmailing of public debt, declining tax revenues is the best way to justify the reduction of social spending. The reform of unemployment insurance, the aborted reform of pensions, guided by the sole objective of saving money at the expense of a so-called deficit system, are the most convincing examples. You need to reduce the famous "share", which is not one, of compulsory levies and public expenditure in GDP: this is your compass, the alpha and the omega of your policy. Yet a society without taxes does not exist, unless it becomes a society of all against all where the weakest remain on the roadside. We saw it during the health crisis. Of course, business support measures can be praised: this was essential, even if it should have been more targeted and conditioned. However, as you deployed pharaonic means to preserve the economic fabric, precarious workers and students were left out. In order to meet their expectations, you promised to include a large commitment income in the finance bill. At the time I'm talking to you, nothing like that appears in the text. We remain suspended from the vertical decisions of the President of the Republic – while Les Échos, which is always better informed than the parliamentarians, announces a stumbling block of 500 million euros, against 1 to 2 billion expected. After the "whatever it costs", the return to budgetary dogmatism? All this suggests that you are anticipating the drastic fall in public spending under the stability programme, since, I repeat, it is the counterpart – at the expense of the poorest – of your tax cuts to the benefit of the richest. As usual, you therefore propose to save on health, on housing, on unemployment insurance, on the backs of the unemployed, on the LPA, thus at the expense of families and students; Finally, on local public services which are already unable to carry out their mission properly, as can be seen from the great consultation launched by the collective "Our public services" or from the report by Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Jean-Paul Mattei. I will not surprise anyone by saying that we do not share your vision of society. A strong state is a state able to act, thanks to large budgetary margins derived from tax revenues. But even as you reduce their taxation, the richest people continue tirelessly to hide from it: after the Panama papers, the Pandora papers have just once again directed the spotlight on this money, which has been taken away from the state's coffers, in this case on 11300 billion dollars – a little less than the GDP of the European Union – of assets scattered around the world in order to escape taxation. In front of the assembly, the minister delegate, Olivier Dussopt, had reacted vigorously, promising verifications. Minister Bruno Le Maire took action: meeting in Brussels with his European counterparts, he agreed that Seychelles should be removed from the list of tax havens! If those who are supposed to hunt them do so, financial criminals still have fine days ahead of them. The solutions are clear: more means of control, more controllers, taxation at source of companies on the basis of the share of their turnover achieved in France, the creation of the concept of permanent establishment for digital companies. We have been making these proposals for many years; This time again, we will renew them when we look at the finance bill, with little illusions as to what you will do to them. The sums involved are, however, essential if we look at the social and environmental challenges that we face more than ever before. The last report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) leaves little room for doubt: we are at a crossroads. While inequalities continue to grow, the time has come to act quickly and strongly on both fronts, to begin a transition that is both ecological and supportive. Yet, on this point, your policy is more cosmetic than in-depth action. By ideology, you leave aside the fiscal lever, which is essential. Why not act on VAT in order to promote certain goods and activities while returning purchasing power to the French? Why not immediately reduce its rate on transport, on the purchase of a bike, on new vehicles, on the energy renovation of buildings? You get used to cutting taxes, but those that are paid by all, you don't touch them! This is also the case with the contribution to the repayment of social debt (CRDS), which you have even extended in catimini. Beyond taxation, the budget should mobilise the necessary funds for the major investments of the ecological transition. To devote 10 billion a year to the renovation of public buildings and housing would reduce the energy consumption of households, hence their bills; We should also invest 5 billion a year in the rail sector. Whether by their magnitude or by their targeting, nor the stimulus plan, nor the new funding provided this year, address these issues. Five years after the vote on the first five-year budget, this last PLF is perfectly in line with the standards of macroism. In 2022, the decline in taxes will continue: 5 billion for the richest, with the reduction of the housing tax and the reduction to 25 per cent of the corporate tax for the largest companies. Again this year, there will be no measures of fiscal justice or solidarity, while the crisis has increased inequality. Social challenges, marked by rising inequalities and poverty, and environmental challenges, which call for investments in ecological transition, are once again left out. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] As usual, the Communist Group will be a force for proposals during the examination of the text, with amendments to lay the foundations for another society: a fairer society, in which everyone participates and pays his fair share of taxes, with a renewed progressivity, a taxation of capital and the means to combat tax fraud; a much more supportive society, which addresses the question of the purchasing power of the popular classes and young people; Finally, a society that has integrated environmental issues and provided itself with the means to succeed in the ecological and solidarity transition. This society is far from the one you are building with this last PLF, which opposes and leaves aside all the citizens who are in poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u193	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u194	Almost a year ago to the day, I was in front of you at this same forum for the beginning of the budget review for the year 2021. We were at the dawn of a second confinement, soon to be followed by a third, which were both synonymous with closures, curfews, restrictions, an energization of the health system and a violent impact on the economy. So a year has passed, and it's a long way to go! Far from the Cassandre and the Catastrophist prophecies, and thanks to the decisive action of the Government, the majority and the wider State, our economy and our social model have held.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u195	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u196	Our caregivers and hospitals have faced the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u197	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u198	Our entrepreneurs and businesses have overcome the economic consequences of it. Our fellow citizens courageously composed with the difficult restrictions that were imposed. Twelve long months, twelve months during which the Government and this majority worked tirelessly to protect the French, preserve our public services, prepare and support our economy towards the end of the crisis. More than 2 million enterprises had access to the Solidarity Fund, 99% of which were very small enterprises (SSEs) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Nearly EUR 35 billion was deployed for partial unemployment and 8.4 million workers benefited from it at the height of the crisis. EUR 140 billion of state-guaranteed loans have been granted – in particular EUR 10 billion for the hotel-restoration sector alone, of which everyone knows how fragile it has been as a result of the health crisis. The horizon is finally brightening up. Thanks to the reforms undertaken since 2017 and to the management of the crisis, our economy is recovering. It recovers quickly – very quickly: 6% growth in 2021. By the end of the year, we should return to our pre-crisis economic level. Five hundred thousand net job creations have been registered and the unemployment rate has thus fallen to 7.6%, its lowest level since 2008, according to INSEE. Business investment, on the other hand, had already recovered its pre-crisis level in the second quarter of 2021. An eternity seems to have passed for twelve months and yet the budget we are about to examine is in line with the four previous ones: consistent with our initial commitments, protective towards our fellow citizens, particularly the most fragile, and resolutely oriented towards the future. If it is protective, it is first of all because we preserve the purchasing power of all the French by continuing the unprecedented tax cut committed from the beginning of the quinquennium. Mandatory levies have been reduced by EUR 50 billion, of which EUR 25 billion have been for the direct benefit of the French, the largest decrease in the last 20 years. The tax cuts that some have been talking about for decades, we are doing them. This budget is still protective because we protect the most vulnerable households from rising energy prices. An exceptional energy check of EUR 100 will be paid in December to the most modest 6 million households to help them pay their energy bill. This will be in addition to the tariff shield that Budget 2022 will allow to materialize. This is concrete for our fellow citizens: their bills will not increase during the next winter, no matter what the cost. This budget is coherent, because it finances our priorities since the beginning of the quinquennium: social progress first, with investments in education, higher education, research and youth; the strengthening of our regal functions, with massive investments for the security of the French on the territory and beyond our borders, and for the modernization of our justice too often neglected by the majorities that preceded us; Finally, support for entrepreneurship, with mechanisms aimed at continuing our policy of supporting the 3 million self-employed workers – artisans, professionals and traders – who make our country proud. This budget is looking towards the future, finally, with the continuation of the sustainable recovery fed by the recovery plan in 2020 and which will, in this text, translate into the France 2030 investment plan. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this 2022 budget is in line with our strategic choice since the beginning of the quinquennium, that of the courageous transformation of our country. In any case, the La République en marche group is proud to help and will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u199	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u200	[[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve sesclaffe]] This budget 2022 closes a disastrous quinquennium for France's finances I measure the strength of the term "disaster" that I use. It is simple that today we have the highest rates of public expenditure and compulsory levies in the European Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u201	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u202	We have the worst trade deficit in the European Union! Finally, as far as the level of debt is concerned, we are among the worst elements of the European Union, ranking twenty-first out of twenty-seven painfully.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u203	Mr. Cazeneuve leaves when he doesn't like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u204	Despite this very poor record, your government and your majority, Minister Delegate, are often quick to give lessons! We've been there right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u205	Yes, they're the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u206	But the truth is that under Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, France has not won a ranking in the European rankings with regard to the level of public spending,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u207	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u208	[[Ms. Cendra Motin exclaimed]] ...the debt ratio, the trade balance or the compulsory levy rate. Not a row won in five years! Worse: the gap between the best managed countries in Europe and France has been widening. Five years ago, you stood up for your serious budget and announced an unprecedented effort to control public accounts. Five years later, on the contrary, we see an unprecedented drift in these same accounts. Current expenditure will have increased by 144 billion euros over the quinquennium and the burden of public expenditure will never have been as high as it is now. It accounts for 56.4% of national wealth, a rate eight points higher than that of Germany and six points higher than the euro area average. The situation of our debt is even more worrying. Ten years ago, the French debt was almost comparable to that of Germany. Today, the gap is dizzying: our debt is forty points higher than that of Germany, rising to more than 116 % of our GDP, and it will soon exceed 3000 billion, or almost 45000 euros of debt per French. At this rate, our level of debt will soon exceed that of Spain. And your balance sheet is even disastrous when we consider our trade deficit of 95 billion, especially since Germany has a surplus of 188 billion at the same time. Contrary to everything you take over from us, you have absolutely not restored the competitiveness of our companies! Even Italy is no longer in a trade deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u209	The election campaign hasn't started yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u210	Finally, do not use the crisis as an alibi to mask your own renunciations. The real problem is not the economic management of the crisis itself: we shared your opinion on the imperative nature of the "whatever it costs"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u211	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u212	... and we voted on each of the emergency PLFRs, as our colleague Gilles Carrez reminded us. Where you failed, it was about the total lack of control over public accounts during the three years of growth that preceded the emergence of the covid: at the time of the crisis, our finances were already much worse than those of our neighbours! The fault, in the end, of your inability to reform the country and a staggering lack of political courage. While in 2019 twenty-three of the twenty-eight countries in the European Union fell behind, France was among the five countries that continued to increase their debt. Let us come to this last budget, that of all excesses, in a flight forward without limits to ever more public spending! In 2017, the candidate Emmanuel Macron, during his presidential campaign, sang for the sound management of public finances. His program was explicit: "There is no policy worth without budgetary responsibility," he said. "That's why we need to reduce our deficits. » Four years later, we wonder where the candidate for serious and fiscal responsibility has gone, because it is the same Emmanuel Macron who now wateres the country with public money and finances his electoral gifts with the checkbook of France! Billions flow with a disconcerting ease but, alas, none of these spending is at this stage financed by anything other than debt. What madness and irresponsibility towards future generations to whom you are going to leave a dizzying bill! This profusion of spending is actually intended to mask the glaring absence of reforms. Ministers, you are not reforming, you are spending! You're not budget ministers, you're spending ministers. Of course, your biggest failure will be to give up pension reform, which is essential! Since the beginning of September, almost every day is the occasion for a new gift and therefore a new expense. These expenses are often justified, but, put to an end, they seriously threaten our future room for manoeuvre! Finally, contrary to the Government's promise, it is often a matter of sustainable spending that is almost irreversible for future governments. The next President of the Republic will therefore be bound feet and fists, forced to honour expenses which he has not approved and obliged to repay a debt which he inherited from his predecessor. The budget you are presenting to us is also truncated, incomplete. It does not take into account the major investment plan announced by the President of the Republic or the commitment income for young people. Several billions of euros of expenditure will therefore have to be added at the last minute by way of amendment, which could further degrade the accuracy of the budget data contained in the draft finance law. It is a new proof, moreover, of your assumed contempt for parliamentary work. Even the High Council for Public Finance, which is used to being very cautious, denounces deadlocks in the presentation of accounts and regrets that the level of expenditure is "probably underestimated". Exceptionally in five years, he believes that he cannot give an informed opinion and calls for "the utmost vigilance" with regard to the situation of our public finances. In reality, you reproduce the same wanderings as in the last socialist budget of 2017, which you criticized very harshly at the time. The crisis has become an alibi to increase opportunistic spending that has nothing to do with it. In three years, ordinary spending has increased by almost EUR 100 billion: EUR 19 billion in 2020, EUR 48 billion in 2021 and EUR 32 billion in 2022. Today, 90 per cent of the government's annual debt is spent on operating expenses. The question of the sustainability of our debt arises more than ever. By letting it derail completely, France is exposed to a dangerous rise in key interest rates – a sword of Damocles. If, on the other hand, we are gratifying the varnish of government communication, we find very quickly that the tax cuts announced must be relativized strongly. Some taxes have actually fallen, but how are these reductions financed? On credit, only with debt blows! Money does not grow in trees. The return of staff will be inevitable: it will take additional taxes to pay the debt. For the rest, taxes remain considerably higher in France than elsewhere. In 2022, French companies will pay 140 billion more taxes, taxes and contributions than their neighbours in the euro area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u213	In rough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u214	In addition, the annual collection of income tax on French citizens brought an additional 9 billion to the state in 2022 compared to 2017. Evidence that the source levy served the interests of the Government to the detriment of the French portfolio. Above all, the extension of the CRDS to at least 2033 represents a sharp increase in taxes that the Government seeks to conceal. As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is full of holes, not only in expenditure, as I have just indicated, but also in revenue. It's not just insinuating, it's out of step with the concerns of our fellow citizens. Their number one concern this fall is the surge in gas, electricity and gasoline prices, which considerably undermines their purchasing power. In response, the Government had introduced the energy cheque and the tariff shield, but those measures were purely ineffective and perfectly demagogic. They illustrate the politics of the small week of the executive, which, instead of solving problems, only pushes back their resolution by putting the dust under the carpet until the next elections. Price increases are likely to fall in the spring due to a catch-up effect. That is why we will propose, through several amendments, to reduce the energy bill in January 2022 and in a sustainable manner, by abolishing the application of VAT on taxes, i.e. a tax on taxes, and by reducing taxes on electricity and gas whenever prices go up. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, as you will have understood, Members of the Republicans Group will at all events oppose this budget of flight forwards towards ever more debt. It is an irresponsible, lazy, incomplete and, above all, very alarming budget that we will be fighting unambiguously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u215	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u216	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u217	The review of the 2022 finance bill is an opportunity to look back at the actions of the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority over the past five years and to note that we have put an end to a decade of fiscal hesitation and impotence that has led to the crossing of the divide between the right and the left, as the French are tired of seeing them in turn abandoning their promises and abandoning their commitments. The last budgets of the previous quinquennats illustrate perfectly this practice of fiscal volte-face and tax looping on the part of Presidents of the Republic almost candidates and desperately trying to catch up in the polls. This is how Nicolas Sarkozy, after having lowered the rate of compulsory levies during the first part of his quinquennium, made it increase during the second: introduction of the tax shield in 2007, repeal in 2012; Deductibility of interest on real estate loans in 2007, abolition in 2010; relaxation of donation rights in 2007, tightening three years later. In the face of such renunciations, some will say that it is necessary to adapt to the economic situation and that only the results count, but the figures do not lie: on the day Nicolas Sarkozy left the Elysée, unemployment was 10% and the debt had increased by 20 points of GDP. After replacing him at the Élysée, Françoise Hollande launched a festival of tax increases that ended to stifle the recovery and caused a feeling of fiscal ras-le-bol so strong that the President of the Republic changed radically as the presidential election approached: creation of an additional tranche of income tax in 2013, abolition of the first tranche in 2015 and reduction of 20% in 2017;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u218	We're doing the story again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u219	...taxation of overtime in 2013, creation of the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) as a follow-up; increase in corporate tax in 2013, then decrease in 2017. Of these roller coasters the French will remember above all the high heart that they caused at home upon arrival, with an ever greater debt and an almost unchanged unemployment rate. By different paths, these two quinquennats led to the same idea being installed in the minds: in tax matters, France would be a drunken boat that sails without heading. These two quinquennats also have in common to have never had a government deficit below 3% and to have failed to protect France from the deficit procedure initiated by the European Union in 2009. It took Emmanuel Macron and this government to get France back to its public finances and finally get out of the disgrace. It will also have taken courage to redress public finances before the crisis by resisting opposition on both sides of this House, reducing assisted jobs and reforming the Chambers of Commerce and Industry (CCI), housing policy and the status of the SNCF. It took courage and perseverance to reach the agreement, obtained a few days ago by Mr Le Maire, introducing a minimum corporate tax – a real tax revolution. It took Emmanuel Macron and this government to demonstrate that it is possible to deliver on his commitments from the first to the last day of the quinquennium! We promised to lower the housing tax, labour and corporate taxes: we lowered the housing tax, labour and corporate taxes! And all of this we have done despite the movement of yellow vests and the most serious crisis our country has ever experienced in a century. This government is indeed one of the promises kept and of the conviction that the commitments made to the French are better than the sombresauts de l'actualité et les vertigos sondagies. Unsurprisingly, the results are on the list. Four years after Emmanuel Macron's election, the standard of living rose twice as fast as under the previous two quinquennats. Unemployment has reached its lowest level in 13 years. Business start-ups are another historic record this year. Industrial employment has recovered and it has caught up with the delay it had accumulated for a decade of decline. France became the first most attractive country in Europe for foreign investment in 2019. This government is indeed that of the results, of the results as they obviously make the task difficult for those who aspire to govern in our place and multiply the tax proposals. On the right, when some accuse us of "burning the caisse", others accuse us of not going far enough in spending to counter rising energy prices. On the left, some want to increase the carbon tax quickly and strongly when some want to lower the VAT on fuel. Go understand! This finance bill is part of the exact continuity of the previous...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u220	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u221	...and the French will be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u222	Or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u223	In its first part, it lays the first stones of the great plan for the self-employed wanted by the President of the Republic. In the continuation of the PACTE law, defended by Bruno Le Maire, this plan gives new perspectives – dare I say new horizons – to the 3.6 million self-employed workers in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will vote in favour of the 2022 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u224	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u226	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u227	The annual review of the finance bill is always a special time, and this year it is more so than another, since it is the last budget of the quinquennium. It therefore provides the appropriate framework for learning, if not lessons learned, from the Government's policy since 2017. The members of the Socialist and related group have never believed in the ultraliberal views of this government, which, for almost five years, has constantly boasted the virtues of runoff, which never came and broke on the wall of reality and crisis. This last budgetary discussion will allow us to balance the accounts of its economic and fiscal policy. It is finally quite simple to understand the budgetary choices that have marked Emmanuel Macron's presidency: it is necessary to alleviate the burden of the richest households and businesses because they will be able to invest in the economy, which will benefit everyone. This theory, which has never been demonstrated, is totally false and, on the contrary, increases inequalities. What are the winners of your policy for five years? When you remove the housing tax, the effect is not the same for all French people. Of the 23 billion revenues that disappeared as a result of this measure, 7 billion were returned to the most affluent 20%, but 15% of households did not get anything because they did not pay this tax because of too low income. Let us take a concrete example. As a Member of Parliament, I won a month of SMIC thanks to your reform. Helen, a home helper, who barely touches the SMIC every month, did not withdraw anything because she did not pay a housing tax. Where's justice? When you remove the ISF on January 1, 2018, the 358,000 households that paid this tax for a total of 5 billion say thank you. The real estate tax (IFI) now applies to only 138,000 taxpayers. According to the Institute of Public Policy (IPP), "the 3 per cent of the most affluent households alone benefit from 70 per cent of the gains from this reform". In concrete terms, the 100 richest households have earned an average of 1.6 million per year. Cost to the State budget? 15 billion on the quinquennium. When you introduce the single lump sum levy, flat tax, annual living standards gains are concentrated on the 5% of the most affluent people, according to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) and INSEE. This measure has mainly had an immediate effect on the payment of dividends, with more than 60% of dividends paid to households between 2017 and 2018. Of course, the highest incomes have increased. The amount of the quinquennium gift remains difficult to assess, but it could be much higher than the valuations, according to economist Gabriel Zucman, because very high-income business leaders will arbitrate in favour of dividends and at the expense of wages to pay less taxes and social contributions. I could continue to undertake many other measures – abolition of production taxes, reduction of corporate tax, abolition of the exit tax, abolition of the higher rate of the wage tax... Of course, you communicate about variations in the standard of living by decile and, miraculously, modest households, from the first deciles of income, saw their purchasing power increase by 4% during the quinquennium. Except that 4% of not much, it still doesn't matter much in volume! While 2% of 500,000 euros, this is 10,000 euros, or eight monthly SMICs. Mr. Deputy Minister responsible for Public Accounts, can you provide us with the same balance sheet per percentiles and tenths of a percentiles for the last decile, by percentage and by volume? Let us return to the budget for 2022: it is a budget for ending the health crisis – at least we must hope – but I dare not say a budget for ending the economic and social crisis, because the emergencies are still before us. This finance bill extends that of 2021, to which have been added four amending financial laws, revealing the seriousness of the turbulence that has been taking place in our country over the past few months. It is also a pity that it took a crisis of this magnitude for many, especially on the right, to rediscover the virtues of the welfare state, which protects the most vulnerable and businesses and makes them hope for a better future when times darken. The idea that, strangely, everyone becomes Keynesian again in times of crisis did not take a wrinkle! Members of the Socialist and Related Group supported measures to deal with the crisis. The "no matter what" has resulted in business support of nearly $230 billion over two years, which is essential support. I repeat, I am pleased that many have rediscovered the protective role of the State. However, household support measures have been disparate and far smaller, either at the heart of the crisis or to stimulate the economy by reviving consumption. While the health crisis has blown up budgets and swelled the debt, the course remains the same: no counterpart to state aid, no contribution from the very rich to the national effort; Worse, despite Segur, hospital beds continue to be closed, as the management paradigm persists. The 2022 Finance Bill attests to the continuation of such a course. In substance, the expenditure remains significant, in line with the previous budget, even if the economic and social situation is different – it is happy. But the "whatever it takes" to cope with the crisis has turned into "whatever it takes" to re-elect the President of the Republic. If it is a course of action in your fiscal and fiscal policy, it is that of political opportunism. What did we hear during the first three years of the quinquennium? The only objective was the golden rule of the budget and the return to balance costs at all costs, in order to justify the effort of the most fragile and the measures favourable to the most affluent. The crisis now has its backs: it is used to justify spending without counting on the next election deadlines, without any guidelines. We all remember that Minister Bruno Le Maire endorsed the slogan "5, 3, 1": the debt had to be reduced by 5 points of GDP, the deficit by 3 points and the compulsory levies by 1 point. Finally, only the target for the compulsory levy rate has been achieved. The seriousness of the promised budget will not have kept up, as this is facilitated by the suspension of the European fiscal straitjacket, while the privileges granted at the beginning of the quinquennium, which I mentioned, have not been reversed. Worse still, while support for sectors in difficulty remains important, we regret that this budget does not contain the funds allocated to the France 2030 investment plan. As I speak to you, Parliament has no visibility on the measures it must discuss; The High Council for Public Finance did not err in refusing to assess the credibility of the expenditure component, a first in its history. This budget with holes will necessarily lead to the addition of many billion euros to the dropper by way of an amendment; Indeed, in addition to the France 2030 plan, there is also a lack of expenditure on, for example, the plan for the city of Marseille or the commitment income for young people, if it is created. This is a new sign of contempt for Parliament. Should we recall that he was born precisely so that the people, through the voice of his representatives, would consent to the taxes and expenses of the State? Although the finance bill for 2022 is the last of the quinquennium, it cannot be overturned; The concerns of the French, in economic, fiscal and fiscal matters, are far too numerous for this. The rise in energy prices is one of them and it is very serious; It rightly worries our fellow citizens. We have not forgotten that on November 17, 2018, thousands of French people demonstrated for tax justice and purchasing power, with the follow-up that we know. A few days ago, the French learned that regulated gas tariffs would rise by 12.6% on 1 October – that happened – after several increases since the beginning of the year. By way of illustration, a couple with two children, heated by gas and living in a poorly insulated house of 120 square meters in zone 6 would have their bill increased from 788 to 1468 euros on an annualized basis. It's exponential and untenable! There is an urgent need to act. The purchasing power of the French, in particular the most precarious but also the popular and middle classes, will be severely eroded; They will encounter the greatest difficulties in heating up and moving around. However, the draft budget which had been submitted contained no measures in that regard. The Prime Minister's recent announcements are not satisfactory: they will not allow the French to cope with current and past increases and only delay future increases – by smoothing them – after April 2022. Instead of proposing a tariff shield for the French, Minister Delegate, you are setting up an electoral shield for the President of the Republic! It is also in the area of solidarity that the 2022 finance bill should not be squandered. The flat-rate reduction applied to the income of the spouse of a beneficiary of the AAH does not in any way meet the aspirations for autonomy expressed by our fellow citizens, and you know that. Finally, the Socialist and Related Group would like to highlight the progress of the experiment on the recentralisation of the RSA. We all know this: the departments, especially those which are experiencing a growing precarisation of part of their citizens, and which are further exacerbated by the consequences of the health crisis, are suffering a scissor effect. It is a common sense measure that will make it possible to secure the most fragile as far as possible. [[Claudia Rouaux applauds]] For all these reasons, if the 2022 finance bill continues to omit the concerns of the middle and popular classes, and if no correction is made to the tax policy in favour of the very rich, the Socialist and related groups will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u228	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u229	It is a good moment of democratic debate that we begin this evening by starting the examination of the finance bill for 2022, after eighteen months of crisis. Would the last budget of the quinquennium ring the end of the crisis? From a health point of view, after a start that gave rise to doubt, the success of the vaccination campaign has enabled our country to avoid a fourth dramatic wave for the moment. On the economic side, the finance bill marks at least the end of the "no matter what it costs", while in almost every sector of activity activity is in full swing, so much so that the main difficulty currently facing our productive fabric is the shortage of labour and raw materials, a problem that we did not even dare to dream about a few months ago. While growth is expected to reach 6% this year, the very dynamic recovery in activity is the result of massive public intervention to protect our economy. Partial unemployment, the solidarity fund and the EMPs (government-guaranteed loans) were indispensable tools to preserve jobs and prevent an unprecedented wave of bankruptcies. I believe that we must be proud to have been able to respond agilely and responsively to the needs of our fellow citizens, thanks to the numerous financial laws passed since March 2020. Of course, some economic actors are still experiencing difficulties and we must continue to support them, with the help of appropriate mechanisms. I am thinking in particular of the ultramarine territories, which have experienced a dramatic epidemic resurgence, forcing braking measures that have delayed economic recovery. Does the finance bill sound like a return to normal? There is clearly a need to analyse the unprecedented deterioration of public finances in response to the violence of the crisis. The government deficit is expected to be around 8.4 per cent of GDP this year and to fall to less than 5 per cent next year. As a result, the level of debt, which reached 115.7% of GDP in 2020, is expected to stabilize in 2021 before beginning its decline in 2022 to about 114 %. These estimates depend, of course, on the changing health and economic environment, but also on the additional measures announced by the Government, which could be presented to us by way of an amendment. As you know, the Group of the European People's Party has always argued for the most serious budget. We are convinced that debt is being repaid, that money is not magic and that too large a public debt would endanger our sovereignty over our lenders. A rapid and brutal recovery of public finances would, however, have a counterproductive effect: it would stifle the recovery and cancel the unprecedented efforts made to keep the French economy afloat during the crisis. Back from those who accuse the Government of "burning the caisse" and " campaigning with the checkbook of the French" as well as those who think that it is necessary to cancel the debt and spend hundreds of billions of euros, we believe that the path chosen by the Government is the right one: to continue to strengthen the Government's ministries, to support growth through recovery and investment, but also to put an end to the "no matter what it costs", which is no longer justified. Once the crisis is behind us and the recovery is indeed on the track, the time will come for the restoration of public finances. The objective is clear: to start the debt reduction by bringing the government deficit back below 3% of GDP by 2027. This will require courageous political choices, because we are well aware that it is always easier to open up the budgetary loopholes than to close them. The political choice that is made in this PLF is that of fiscal stability. Let's say: in France, it is a real political choice, as the instability of the tax standard makes our reputation worldwide. After four consecutive years of declining compulsory levies, both for households and for businesses, the PLF you are proposing does not contain a flagship tax measure, and we accommodate it very well. Its first part, which we are starting to examine today, is, however, not without interest: I am thinking in particular of the transposition of the tax component of the plan to support the self-employed, the securing of the tax credit for personal services, the development of the tax system for the greening of ships and the testing of the recentralisation of the RSA. But priority is given to investment and regal policies. All the budgets of the Government ministries are experiencing substantial increases in appropriations: an increase of 8 per cent for the justice budget for the second year in a row, and almost 1.5 billion euros in additional appropriations are allocated to the Ministry of the Interior. The military programming law was once again respected, with an additional 1.7 billion euros for defence in 2022, while the national education budget also increased by 1.7 billion euros. We welcome this priority given to the Regalian, who must be at the forefront of our action. With regard to the recovery, EUR 47 billion of the France Recovery Plan had already been committed at the end of August 2021; 70% of the planned funding will be deployed by the end of the year, and the rest will be deployed by 2022. Some devices are very successful, such as MaPrimeRenov ', for which a record number of files have been filed, thus supporting the purchasing power of households. The investment plan, which should be presented to us without further delay, will also complement the economic mechanism that can build the French economy of tomorrow. Support for investment and growth is the best way to create jobs and repay public debt. The 2022 finance bill is therefore part of the economic policy of the Government and the majority over the past four years. It is a policy that has proved its worth, without dogmatism, and has produced more than encouraging results: reduction of the tax burden, gain of purchasing power, protection of the French during the crisis and solid restart. We will have to be there to respond to the energy shock, which threatens both the purchasing power of the French and the viability of our companies. In the same way, we must face the challenge of training and work, while the market is under stress. [[Patricia Lemoine and Jean-Paul Mattei applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party will take its full part in the discussions that we hope will be constructive, so that the 2022 finance bill will definitely mark the end of the crisis and the first step towards new horizons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u230	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u231	Before I begin my remarks, I would like to send a message to you, Minister Delegate, from our colleagues in Caledonia who wish to alert you to the situation in New Caledonia. This territory, which had previously been spared from the health crisis, is now severely affected: the bar of 200 deaths has unfortunately been crossed. My two colleagues, Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, would like to welcome the sending of reinforcements from the health reserve to assist local staff, but New Caledonia will certainly seek direct State aid to deal with the situation. As Caledonian companies appear to be severely affected, they may request a relaxation of the terms and conditions for repayment of the EMPs they have benefited from. This is the message they wanted to convey to you; They wanted to thank you, but they also hope – it shouldn't be difficult – that state support will continue. Thanks in advance. As we read the general explanatory statement of the 2022 Finance Bill, we might believe that everything is fine, that finances are getting thinner and that the crisis is behind us. Yet this PLF, the last of the legislature, brings us to the time of the balance sheet. This is a delicate period, between the end of the "whatever it costs", which took the form of massive support for businesses and employees, and the sustained revival of the economy, driven by investment. The fact that we found ourselves during this transition period must lead us to make strong choices, in order to respond to the urgency but also to prepare for the future. But I find it bitter: the drawer text that is presented to us basically ignores this need. A few months from the presidential election and the general elections, this PLF naturally takes on a political tone. It certainly ends the period of "whatever it costs", without breaking with a high level of public spending. If we take a little height, we notice that the PLF for 2020 was that of the emergency and the PLF for 2021 that of the recovery; Unfortunately, Minister, the PLF for 2022 is neither investment nor standardization: it is a PLF of public expenditure. Public expenditure is expected to account for 56.4% of GDP in 2022, bringing it to a level that is 8 percentage points higher than the euro area average. So-called "ordinary" expenditures continue to increase significantly. The growth rate of public expenditure in volume, excluding tax credits, support and recovery, is expected to rise to 0.8% next year; In value terms, the increase will be 2.3%, corresponding to €32 billion in additional expenditure. What endangers our future, therefore, is our structural spending and our inability to get out of the over-government that characterizes us. I regret that this budget division is marked by many false notes. It is not easy for a conductor to define tempo, especially when a few notes are missing from his scores. Your budget is an unfinished symphony. After a week of work in the Finance Committee, and when we start our work in the Chamber, we still have no data on your investment plan – France 2030 – or on the commitment income for young people. We mention at the bottom 30 to 32 billion euros. Of two things one: either you are not able to present your projects to us, and it is dramatic; either you have deliberately excluded data from your budget, and this is an offence against Parliament, the French and the French. We are not fooled: in addition to expressing blatant contempt for Parliament, this ingenious technique makes it possible to circumvent the opinion of the Council of State by tabling last-minute amendments to the considerable amounts without having an impact assessment, while avoiding the collapse of economic figures. This complex sizing is quite simple, it consists of combining sustainable and structural measures with ad hoc electoral measures. You defend the principle of fiscal stability to give visibility to households and businesses, when it is already difficult to measure the harmony of this budget. Yesterday morning, returning home after a constituency commemoration, I heard Mr. Castaner, president of the majority group, at the Grand Jury RTL - Le Monde. It was perfectly normal for the President of the Republic to have prepared, decided and announced the major investment plan, and for Parliament not to be associated with it. It is shocking, our role is to work on such topics and it is also a chance for the majority. It is by gathering all of us around a table that we will achieve a result. This is a sign of Parliament's contempt, which accredits above all the idea that parliamentarians are useless and fuel populism. Given the times we live in, if we continue in this direction, we will all have to pay for it. It is not new that important amendments are tabled by the Government, but it is not because the others did that that must be done! If we follow the tempo of the President-candidate's announcements, the numbers may be gone again. And if the macroeconomic scenario were to be changed, to take these measures into account, a new referral by the Government to the High Council for Public Finance would be necessary, which would lead to quite a cacophony. For the first time in this Parliament, the High Council regretted "conditions of referral that do not allow it to give a fully informed opinion on the public finance forecasts for 2022 for Parliament and citizens, in accordance with its mandate. He therefore declared himself unable to assess the plausibility of the public deficit announced in 2022. Despite this continuation of spending, the deficit and public debt would begin to decline very slightly. The deficit would fall to 4.8% of GDP after peaking at 8.4% in 2021. Debt would return to 114 per cent of GDP in 2022 after reaching 115.6 per cent in 2021. Of course, France will stabilize its debt issues to finance itself. Agence France Trésor, responsible for placing the government's debt on the market, plans again to issue €260 billion of medium- and long-term bonds in 2022, as in 2021. This operation, in addition to a short-term debt issue of 5 billion and a withdrawal of 22 billion from the public treasury account, will enable it to meet its need for financing of 292.7 billion euros next year. On the other hand, we welcome the creation of the budget programme 369 Amortization of the State's debt linked to the covid-19, but one question remains: how to repay the debt linked to the covid? After two years of debt crunching due to the opening of the budget valves to support the economy in the face of the coronavirus, you commit yourself to amortising the state's debt linked to the crisis – estimated at 165 billion euros – over 20 years, until 2042, by allocating about 6% of the revenue surplus each year compared to 2020. In 2022, this amount will be EUR 1.9 billion, hoping that a tax increase will not be the only solution in the long term. Beyond this, France's public debt will therefore exceed EUR 3 billion by 2022. At this rate, we will still be there in more than a hundred years! In this budgetary context, how can we not mention the inexorable rise in energy prices? Whether it is to move, heat up or simply for daily life, the cost of energy occupies a prominent place in the household budget. The measures announced by the Government, while appreciative, do not appear to have been taken into account. It is not a question of repelling the problem after the presidential elections, but of initiating essential reforms. On behalf of my IDU and independent group, I indicated in the questions to the Government last week that we are proposing a common-sense solution: to abolish VAT on local taxes or to reduce VAT on small energy taxes from 20% to 5.5%. Mr Minister, I repeat my question: why don't you permanently abolish the VAT applied to ecological taxation? It's just a tax on the tax. To govern is to anticipate, but it is above all to anticipate and prepare for the future. We also believe that the €2 billion that EDF will receive from the French State offers a unique opportunity. Why not allocate 50% to the energy renovation of buildings and energy saving measures, mainly for the middle classes, who are the forgotten of your proposals? I have heard from the rapporteur-general that all this is the result of a European directive and that we cannot help it. Once again, if this Parliament is of no use, we have a real problem. The European directive can be debated again, and France will be in a good position from January onwards to do so. Energy increases are a real question; I come from a department where it's cold in the winter and when it's less than ten or less fifteen degrees, energy is not incidental. When families have an extra 700 or 800 euros of gas bills and, unfortunately, they are out of the criteria to benefit from the energy check, there is a real problem. We must share it, because we are only at the beginning of the increase in the cost of energy. We will have to provide for sustainable measures, and that is what we are doing, rather than simply proposing to push things back after the presidential election. On the occasion of this last budget of the legislature, we wish to reiterate our commitment to the implementation of structural reforms. For the past four years, our group has always been part of a constructive attitude. Unfortunately, the majority has been characterized by its lack of openness, and we regret it. When it comes to working for the future of the French and France, there are no opposing groups, but the need to enrich each other's proposals. It is in this will that we start these budgetary discussions. We hope that at the end of this unprecedented health crisis, our country will return to the path of growth. We are convinced that it is essential to include our public policies in substantive reforms. The bureaucracy crushes the spirit of undertaking our small and medium-sized businesses, as well as our communities and our health care system. Since we are on the way – it is happy – to emerge from this terrible crisis of the covid -19 which has shaken our hospital system, I will quote a figure: our per capita budget for the hospital is about the same as that of Germany, but while the administrative costs are 25 per cent, they are 34 per cent in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u233	If we can solve this problem, we can hire nurses and pay them properly. Your budget does not include reforms in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u234	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u235	The burden of debt is a danger to our children's future. At the very least, as Pierre Moscovici, the first President of the Court of Auditors, asks, we hope that the growth supplements will be devoted to the repayment of the debt. In conclusion, let me quote a courageous politician, the great Winston Churchill: "We should never turn our backs on a danger to try to flee him. If you do, you'll double it. But if you confront him quickly and without escaping, you'll cut him by half. Mr. Minister Delegate, at the beginning of the review of this PLF, we want you not to steal from it, it is about the future of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u236	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u237	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u238	Deputy Minister, this is your last quinquennium budget. To sum it up in one sentence: he spends too little, and above all he spends very badly. By saying "too little", I already see all those who, again, make the level of deficits and debt the alpha and the omega of any fiscal policy. They are very majority here, where they pretend to debate each other and to have disagreements: the right always blames the Government for spending too much, then the Government defends it, even arguing that it will begin this year to use the fruits of growth to reduce deficits. He promised us five years later of drastic savings until 2027, all framed by a new golden rule. These false debates and this race to the one who wants to spend the least and no matter how are not at the level of the consequences of the crisis of the covid-19 on the economy, nor of the ecological bifurcation to which you have refused since 2017 to devote the necessary finances. This finance bill is in line with your 2020 and 2021 contingency plans and stimulus plans. In all, you will have spent 165 billion euros for these two years, or about 6% of GDP. By comparison, in the United States, expenditures related to the crisis amounted to $5,000 billion, or a quarter of its GDP, mainly devoted to social transfers and support for popular consumption. This is why the United States has a historically low poverty rate. Even as interest rates remain low, which the European Central Bank has, through the Bank of France, a stock of debt of nearly 600 billion euros available from which it would be easy to draw more money, you spend a little bit. It is not the alleged increase in the expenditure of this PLF to 10.8 billion that will reverse the trend, even if it is increased to 17 billion by the effect of the government amendments. I take this opportunity to point out that these hidden spending announcements are a very funny method of government. The High Council for Public Finance clearly considers that there is a shortage of 5 billion expenditure in the original project and regrets that these conditions "do not allow it to give a fully informed opinion" on this PLF. How can we describe this kind of debate in democracy, when the nature and reality of more than half of the planned increase in spending is not known before the debate, when an Emmanuel Macron can finally announce everything that passes through his head, without that corresponds to anything concrete in the texts submitted to the opening of the debates? As for the France 2030 investment plan, which is a good announcement, I agree. But it must last five to eight years, which amounts to spending between 3 and 6 billion euros a year, so no more than in normal times, without an economic crisis and without a health crisis. How can the liberal economists – Olivier Blanchard and Jean Pisani-Ferry, for example – still be satisfied with this, say that it would take 60 billion euros well-targeted, just on support for demand and precarious households? Especially when comparing the level of expenditure with GDP, it is not up by 1.5% but down by about 1%. In order to spend so little, the Government relies on a balance sheet which it presents to us as a mirific but which, regrettably absent from Mr. Le Maire, is a deceit on several levels. The return to the level of activity of 2019 that Bruno Le Maire welcomes is nothing like a return to normal for the economy; This represents two years of lost wealth production. And the expected growth of 6% is only a mechanical rebound that appears to be even stronger as the fall was significant in 2020. The other deceit relates to the fall in unemployment. If we look at the number of people enrolled in the Employment Centre, the situation compared with the pre-crisis situation is rather in the red. With 3.5 million people registered in category A in June, so that they had not worked at all in the previous month, there were 5% more registrants than they had been 15 months ago. The result is exactly the same in all categories, and I remind you that half of these people are not compensated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u239	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u240	Third deception, the so-called increase in purchasing power, which Emmanuel Macron hopes to save him from his image as president of the rich. Again, the falsification of data is opposed to the harsh reality of the field. The graph of the economic, social and financial report annexed to the PLF is misleading and falls within the scope of quasi-falsification. By presenting the data in a rather truncated way, he manages to claim that the standard of living of the poorest people would have increased more than that of the rich under Macron, whereas it is the opposite. The scheme would literally have the opposite shape by presenting a decile distribution of the total gain of purchasing power, and for the 0.1% of the richest, this increase would be Himalayan! While the Government is congratulating itself with this kind of bogus staging, the fact is that the wealth of France's 500 largest fortunes has increased well by 100 per cent since 2017 and by 30 per cent in 2021, while poverty continues to increase. I thank you for the study by CREDOC – the Research Centre for the Study and Observation of Living Conditions – that you will be able to read in Le Monde tonight, according to which 4 million people are qualified as new vulnerable, because they are vulnerable on almost all the elements absolutely indispensable for a dignified life. A Catholic relief report accounts for 8 million French people living in food aid. There has been a steady increase in the number of recipients to the RSA. Last year, the food aid budget had already fallen by €7 million and you were not even ashamed. Even your story of the energy check, with such positive turns, is next to the plate. How is such a limited and ad hoc aid supposed to compensate for a fundamental problem that is only getting worse? You do not block prices, contrary to what you say, since in reality you have let go of all the increases. You do not question the opening up of energy to competition, you do not question the profits made by companies such as Total, EDF or Engie, which recorded more than 13 billion profits in the first half of 2021. At the bottom, your energy shield is a cardboard-paste shield that won't protect the French. In this finance bill, you are doing so little to revive the activity from the reduction of inequalities that it is ridiculous. You are also doing far too little for ecological forklift, at a time when INSEE estimates that 60 billion more euros would have to be invested each year than in 2019 to catch up with the trajectory of the national low-carbon strategy. But the problem is not just spending too little, you also spend too much. Once again, the Government is depriving itself of revenue – this loss being the worst of expenditure – by making gifts to the richest: continuing the reduction of compulsory levies – €6 billion in the finance bill; decrease in corporate tax; reduction of the housing tax for the richest 20% – which, in two years, will have cost some 17 billion euros to public revenues; maintaining the EUR 10 billion reduction in production taxes. You spend too much money because you continue to give businesses without imposing conditions on them. Let's get along well: we don't blame you for supporting companies in difficulty. On the contrary, considering that the aid is even insufficient for some companies, we ask that they be given a two-year carry-over from the EMP in order to prevent the risk of bankruptcy. In the absence of conditionality, however, aid to the private sector does not have an effect on wages and employment. In 2021, the growth of the business budget devoted to wages was 1.4 per cent, the lowest rate in ten years. In fact, the aid is very much received by the shareholders of large companies. As a result, on June 1st, the CAC40 reached its highest level in 20 years. Dividends paid by CAC40 companies exploded to reach EUR 51 billion, while some of them dismissed up to 60000 people. In 2020, 284,000 jobs were destroyed. Even the Court of Auditors warns about these important effects of bounty. I regret that Mr Barrot left, who was talking about business start-ups. In one year, some 1,000 redundancies have resulted in 112,000 job losses. It is also by looking at the announcement of budget increases per ministry that I conclude that the Government spends too much. Let us look at the ecological transition, which shows an increase of EUR 1.1 billion. The Ministry's workforce continues to decline and operators as essential as Météo France, CEREMA (Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobility et l'aménagement) and IGN (Institut national de l'information géographique et forester) are threatened with clinical death. This amount of EUR 1.1 billion is only used to finance calls for projects, sometimes to the detriment of state operators, which transforms this ministry into a kind of window for privately oriented budgets. It's like this for all your measurements, for all your fakes, for all your old recipes on the right. You're removing jobs in Bercy, while the Pandora Papers demonstrate the need for tax controls. We can also mention the false nationalisation of the RSA, which now gives the State the possibility to draw on the revenues of the departments, or the reduction of taxes disguised as a nice plan for the self-employed. We affirm that a completely different logic should be adopted which would be based on a profound tax revolution, which would restore a little justice by creating an improved wealth tax, by tackling unfair VAT, by rethinking income tax, and by taxing the profitors of crisis. Another logic should be adopted that would rid us of the absurd blackmail to the debt, starting by cancelling that of the covid -19, which would allow to vote a great social emergency law to block the prices of basic necessity, increase the SMIC, eradicate poverty through the guarantee of dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, and because, in the end, you always offer us the old revenues of supply policy, those that attack labour prices, solidarity mechanisms, structural reforms and those that attack workers' gains, we will oppose your disastrous budget point by point. We will ensure that this budget is the latest Macronian finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u241	He told you the truth: it's hard to hear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u242	It's especially long...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u243	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u244	The finance bill for 2022 will be my twenty-ninth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u245	[[Smile]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u246	...which allows me to take stock of this 2017-2022 legislature, and to give the six main features. First characteristic: it is an incomplete or even insinuating text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u247	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u248	Section 32 of the LOLF states: "Financial laws present in a sincere way all the resources and expenses of the State. Their sincerity is appreciated in the light of the information available and the forecasts that can reasonably be expected from it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u249	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u250	Mr Minister Delegate, you already have reasonable forecasts in view of the following two decisions: an investment plan of 30 billion euros until 2030, the details of which will be unveiled tomorrow morning by the President of the Republic and which would amount to 4 billion euros by 2022, according to the newspaper Le Monde; and a commitment income for young people estimated at some 2 billion euros in full year – 500 euros per month for 300,000 young people. Government decisions on electricity and gas prices will result in tax losses and compensation claims from the companies concerned. For what amount, Minister Delegate? Two weeks ago, in our debate on The Parliamentary Channel (LCP), the rapporteur-general himself acknowledged that non-budgeted expenditure was between EUR 5 billion and EUR 6 billion. For the first time, the High Council for Public Finance has declared itself unable to comment on the plausibility of the 2022 deficit forecast, due to the lack of budgeting of expenditure related to presidential or governmental decisions. As announced by the newspaper Le Monde and as you have just said, you will once again seize the High Council to evaluate your amendments once they are tabled. It's very innovative... Second characteristic: this budget for 2022 is part of an accelerated drift in our public finances. In the summary statement of this budget, you claim to have adjusted public accounts in five years. That's not true! Again, sincerity is not the strong of the executive. According to your figures, our structural deficit would be 3.17 points of GDP in 2022. In fact, if the HCFP analysis were to be retained, it would be at 4.7 points. This result should not be compared with the levels of 2020 or 2021, irrelevant because not significant, according to your own statements. We need to look at the 2017 structural deficit: - 2.4 points of GDP. During your quinquennium, the structural balance thus deteriorated by 2.3 points, which is equivalent to almost doubling. The crisis associated with the covid-19 pandemic cannot hide your failing fiscal control. Third characteristic: while the budget for 2022 reflects part of the President's promises, it does not engage in any policy of structural savings. Every week, expenses are accumulating. Every week its new promise: investment plan of 30 billion euros; €2 billion commitment income for young people; €1.5 billion increase for the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and the Beauvau de la sécurité; An additional EUR 700 million under the Grenelle de l'Éducation – these last two amounts would be budgeted. The list is long: it is the permanent open budget bar, a real electoral budget! If we face up, on the one hand, to all the operating revenue of the State – 312 billion euros of which 292 billion tax revenues – and, on the other hand, to our operating expenditure – 427 billion euros – we have an operating deficit of 115 billion euros. In order to balance the government's operating budget, it would therefore be necessary to increase the total tax revenue by 40 per cent. As for investment expenditure, it is very low and entirely financed on credit: almost 24 billion in 2022, 60% of which – that is, 14.5 billion – corresponds to military investments. In the end, civilian investments do not reach EUR 10 billion, or 2.4% of the EUR 427 billion in operating expenditure. If our communes, our departments and our regions were managed like this, everything would collapse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u251	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u252	You're letting the public spend. Without a contingency plan and support, spending is characterised by an increase of around 2.3%, to which must be added the non-budgeted measures, that is to say 5 to 6 billion euros – these are your figures. Thus, the actual increase in spending can reasonably be estimated at 3.4% for 2022. Overall, over the last five years, the weight of total public expenditure in GDP has increased from 55.1% in 2017 to 55.6% in your 2022 forecasts, or 0.5 percentage points of GDP – 13 billion euros – in addition. In addition, the reduction in compulsory levies, presented by the Government, is overestimated and financed on credit. Again, ladies and gentlemen, you must be wary of government figures. In committee, Minister Delegate, you announced a reduction of 52 billion euros in compulsory levies between 2017 and 2022. In fact, their weight increased from 45.1% of GDP in 2017 to 43.5% in 2022 – 1.6 percentage points down, i.e. only 41 billion euros entirely financed on credit during the same period, as structural deficits grew by 2.3 percentage points of GDP according to the HCFP and 1.3 percentage points in government forecasts. Fourth characteristic: despite the efforts made – there have been some that we have supported – France is still not competitive. You yourself have acknowledged that our country is still lagging behind in this regard. Our growth is plagued by the growing deficit in foreign trade, a sign of even low competitiveness. According to your figures, the forecast trade deficit is expected to reach a new record in 2022: 95 billion euros, after reaching 86 billion euros in 2021. It stood at 58 billion euros in 2017. We are far from the years – in the early 2000s – when the trade balance had a positive balance of 3.5 billion euros. The deterioration of foreign trade costs France between 0.3 and 0.4 points of growth each year. On the other hand, other countries, particularly Germany, remain competitive and have very surplus balances. Fifth characteristic: the budgets of the social security agencies are structurally deficient. Of course, it is the disease branch that has the most serious deficit. Of course, covid-19 spending is decreasing from EUR 18.3 billion in 2020 to EUR 4.8 billion in 2022. However, apart from the impact of the crisis, the deficit remains at a high level and does not decrease: 14.8 billion in 2022, excluding the 4.8 billion linked to the covid-19. Without emergency measures, the increase in health insurance expenditure accelerated in 2022: +3.8%. In the case of pensions, due to the lack of reform, the structural deficit can only deteriorate. Including the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV), the structural deficit of the National Old Age Insurance Fund (CNAV) stood at more than EUR 4.1 billion in 2022. According to government forecasts, it would reach €7.9 billion by 2025. If nothing is done, the annual drift will be around €1.3 billion. The thorny issue of pension reform should have been resolved. Waiting for the presidential election and postponing this necessary reform to 2023, in order to ensure the long-term viability of the system, reflects a lack of political courage. The budgetary situation is drifting. Let's look at your press kit on the PLFSS for 2022. On page 40, your presentation of the cumulative deficit of the general scheme and the FSV from 2008 to 2024 gives the impression that everything is working out. Again, it's an illusion. Your ministry indicates a €92 billion slip for the 2020-2023 deficits. However, if we add up the balance by branch for the years 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023, we get EUR 109.5 billion of accumulated deficit for the general scheme and the FSV. Some 17.5 billion euros of additional degradation is more than a slippage. Sixth and final characteristic: the unprecedented increase in our public debt, which leads to a debt of 3000 billion euros, or 100,000 euros per French household. In total, our public debt will reach worrying levels: 2950 billion euros at the end of 2022, or close to 100,000 euros per family, compared to 2311 billion euros in 2018, or 75000 euros per household. Over the last five years, the public debt per family has increased by €25,000. The real amount of public debt is reduced by EUR 100 billion, due to the system of issuing premiums. We should end this accounting illusion in order to enable Parliament to know the true level of public debt. In any case, it is a very heavy budgetary will that you leave to your successors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u253	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u254	In conclusion, the great criticism that could be made of this government and its predecessors is that it has not yet developed major structural reforms. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will not vote in favour of this finance bill. Following the presidential and legislative elections of June 2022, the next government, whatever it may be, will have to carry out a policy of structural economies through structural reforms that you have not been able to carry out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u256	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u257	It's overwhelming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u258	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u259	"Future generations may well have an interest in inheriting both a preserved climate and a higher financial debt." Thus, Jean Pisani-Ferry refutes the generational argument in the note entitled "Ecology needs a macroeconomic policy", which made a great deal of noise this summer. For the last four years and this afternoon in the Chamber, on the occasion of the budgetary debates, I have heard this argument about the French financial debt that we would leave to future generations. On the other hand, our environmental debt continues to grow without taking the place it should have in our budgetary discussions. Indeed, the debates on the vertigo of financial debt largely absorb the debates on the vertigo of ecological debt. Environmental debt, however, has significant budgetary and macroeconomic consequences, not in a distant horizon but now. We must be clear: if inaction has a cost, environmental action, which this Government and this majority have begun to carry out with courage since 2017, also has a cost, as well as considerable macroeconomic consequences that we must quickly take into account. At a time when we have begun to debate the deficit, inflation, interest rates and growth, we cannot ignore the fact that accelerating climate action will involve major changes in the pattern of growth over the next 30 years, as demonstrated by the economist I mentioned in the introduction. The decarbonization of our economy could be seen as a negative supply shock like the oil shocks of the 1970s. Should it involve a catastrophism and collapsology to break everything? Do we, however, have to ignore the upheavals at work and continue to layer past analyses and provide the same remedies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u260	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u261	I don't think so. On the contrary, I believe that we need to approach these new issues with enthusiasm, as an unprecedented political challenge, and above all renew our way of appreciating all these economic indicators that we have been looking at for so long in the same way. Thus, should we not ask the question of the deficit target to be achieved as follows: under what conditions of environmental action could the State achieve a deficit of 3% by 2027?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u263	Focusing only on pension reform is a facility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u264	You had to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u265	Indeed, the savings projected by them could very quickly be absorbed by the expenses necessary to adapt and mitigate climate change – sorry if it hurts your ears, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u266	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u267	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore essential to consider climate policy as a macroeconomic policy, as suggested by Jean Pisani-Ferry, and not as a mere question of prohibition, regulation or additional public expenditure, if financial and environmental debts are to be placed at the same level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u269	Beyond these macro-economic assessments, I would like to talk about the green budget, a great tool that France has had since last year. I would like to reiterate here that it is only an instrument in the service of political decision-making. The Green Budget is not a tool to brandish but must help us to act. It must lead us to change certain expenditure, so certain public policies which are harmful to the environment. Like the Green Budget 2021, the Green Budget 2022 reminds us that out of 10.8 billion euros of expenditure with a negative impact on the environment, 7.6 billion is tax expenditure. We still have a long way to go. None of the climate roadmaps of the relevant ministries – economics, agriculture, ecological transition and territorial cohesion – suggest a clear method of achieving this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u270	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u271	Yet the actors – I think farmers – are ready to move forward. I hope to have the opportunity to demonstrate this during our discussions. I want to prove that this green budget is useful and calls for action. In conclusion, I would like to say that ecology is not a question of decay, of identity, of gender, of choice, of political party. It is binding on us, on the whole Republic. This was also the meaning of the reform of Article 1 of the Constitution desired by this majority and which could not be achieved because of an archaic right-wing Senate – or perhaps simply a right-wing archaism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u272	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u273	As always!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u274	Science fiction often gives a fairly fair view of the future. It can also inspire us, as politicians, by making us reflect on the conditions for our collective success. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will give the example of Carbone and Silicium, these two robots that cross the millennia, with a lot of lucidity about man and our society, in Mathieu Bablet's graphic novel that bears their name. If, according to them, "it is because the human is unable to act as a species that the gaps in wealth have widened, that no one has wanted to make sufficient efforts to save the environment," they keep a hope for humanity, considering that "living together can only work through collective effort. Working with each other, helping each other. A global intelligence at the service of the group." Let it inspire us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u275	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u276	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u277	We have entered the last strong political period of this quinquennium, the time to take stock of our public finances – not the first assessment of the post-crisis era, as Mr Le Maire said earlier, but the last of this mandate. Minister, you have been pretending to be working for five years to improve the daily lives of the French and the future of future generations. First, you proudly announce that you have lowered taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u278	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u279	But then how do you explain the actual increase in the collection of French income taxes, with an increase of 5 billion euros between 2017 and 2022? How do you explain that our companies will continue to pay €140 billion more taxes and contributions next year than their euro area counterparts? Secondly, you have praised the merits of major structural reforms to control the surge in our deficit. Yet, our structural deficit – out of economic conditions and therefore out of crisis – has almost doubled. Either your calculator has stopped or you have a complex relationship with reality. I note, first, that our public expenditure rate is six points higher than the euro area average and, second, that our debt level is reaching record levels – 114% of our GDP in 2022, almost ten points higher than for the euro area. The public debt now amounts to €42,000 per French. Our country has not gained a single ranking in the European rankings on all indicators. Worse still, the gap with Europe's best managed countries has been growing. Germany's deficit stood at 1.5% of GDP when Sweden was in balance in 2022. We're so far from it! The government's budget deficit is at an extremely high level: EUR 143.4 billion, or 4.8% of GDP, almost double its 2018 level. That's the result of your management. The fact is that the figures do not lie: French debt increased by 680 billion euros – you heard me correctly – during Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium. This is not only due to the health crisis of the covid-19. It has certainly gone through this, but you cannot deny that we have approached it with very poor results and that the period of growth which preceded it has not been put to good use. The result of your budgetary irresponsibility is a genuine downgrading of France at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u280	It's better to be deaf than to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u281	The reality is that the "whatever it costs" health has become the "whatever it costs" election. Thus, this finance bill presents a succession of largesses and billions of them do not end in rain. The High Council for Public Finance also sounds the alarm, going so far as to question your sincerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u282	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u283	For him, the expenditure of this budget is "probably underestimated" since many expenses, representing an additional cost compared to the announced project, will have to be decided by means of amendments that the Government will include during this reading. Minister, spending is not reform. The strategy of the cheque book engages France in a tunnel of unsustainable unfunded expenditure that threatens our sovereignty and our social model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u284	And of course, you've only made savings proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u285	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our dependence on markets is becoming dangerous – I would remind you that 260 billion euros will have to be borrowed this year. It makes Mrs. Motin smile, not me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u286	I'm waiting for your proposals, Mrs. Dalloz!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u287	I'm worried about our future ability to pay back. The health crisis has all too often served as an alibi to increase many current expenses opportunistically. The Court of Auditors estimates that €13 billion spent in 2020 is unrelated to covid-19. If we approve emergency spending, we regret the irresponsible overbidding to ever more public money spent. Finally, the increase in purchasing power that you defend shows great disparities and is far from reflecting the daily lives of our fellow citizens, while the rise in energy prices is at the centre of all crises. The shield raised by the Prime Minister is not a gift but bets on a compensation mechanism that risks re-allocating the consumer budget next spring. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, promises are only those who believe in them and, as you will understand, I do not believe in your communication.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u289	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u290	The general discussion is an appreciable exercise, in that it allows us to hear, in alternation, words with different tone. That's how democracy goes, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u292	The last budget of the legislature consolidates the task of saving our economy from the health crisis that began in 2020, which cost more than 170 billion, and complements the recovery plan adopted last year, which is already bearing its first fruit. Thanks to the extraordinary support mechanisms put in place, such as the EMP and partial activity, which naturally cease to exist after having played their role as a shock absorber, the economy is starting to rise again, unemployment is falling and growth and consumption will allow employment to rebound. The finance bill for 2022 is based on a 4% growth assumption, a deficit reduction – which will exceed 220 billion this year – from 8.4 per cent to 4.8 per cent of GDP, as well as a debt reduction from 116 per cent of GDP to 114 per cent. In the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group, we are attentive to the control of public debt. But the surest way to reduce debt is to return to the path of growth. The recovery plan voted last year and extended this year devotes investments to projects with leverage, whether they are employment-promoting sectors or the green economy – the subject has just been addressed. The reduction of 10 billion euros in production taxes, the abolition of the regional share of the CVAE, the contribution on the added value of companies, and property taxes are part of the revival of the industry, as my interlocutors in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques bear witness – and I can assure you that it works. With the 2022 budget, the majority completes the implementation of the commitments made at the beginning of the quinquennium to reduce taxes on the economy, since the downward trajectory of corporate tax to 25% continues in a fiscal environment that has been remedied by flat tax or by extending the benefit of the reduced rate for small businesses, whose threshold has increased from €7.6 million to €10 million. In addition, the housing tax has been completely abolished for households, thus reducing territorial inequalities. This is once again an ambitious budget, with the €1.5 billion plan for Marseille, the €500 million support measures for law enforcement, the upgrading of 100 gross euros next year for midwives, the plan for the self-employed, the measures for ensuring the coverage of farmers, the extension of the energy cheque for an amount of 600 million or the renewal of MaPrimeRénov'. Article 5 will facilitate the recovery of the economy by introducing measures to exempt capital gains from the sale of business or corporate securities, since the life cycle of an enterprise involves development, but also transmission, which will now be easier, including in the case of leasing. We will propose several amendments to facilitate this transition, in particular to avoid taxing unrealised capital gains when the company's value has fallen between the time of its disposal and the time of tax collection, or to fluidise the transfer of equity in the event of retirement, a subject which is at the heart of the transmission of companies. We will also propose to remove some ambiguities on whether or not stocks are taken into account in the calculation of the exemption ceiling provided for in Article 5 or on the incorporation or adaptation of taxation to the new economic balances. Article 6 is equally important since it offers the temporary and derogatory possibility for the common law to tax amortize commercial funds acquired between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2023 – a measure that could be improved and maintained over time. These arrangements will facilitate the lives of entrepreneurs, who are at the heart of our concerns. The plan for the self-employed, wanted by the President of the Republic, gives real recognition to a sector that needs cohesion. The new unique status of the individual entrepreneur, which my colleague and friend Mohamed Laqhila and I have been calling for for several years, will be likely to facilitate the setting up of the company, which is a guarantee, as soon as the company is set up, of its future growth – not to mention the status of the collaborating spouse or the question of the reconversion of the self-employed. Finally, we will be defending other proposals, in particular to challenge the tips paid to employees in the coffee, hotels and restaurants sector, which have fallen sharply as a result of the massive use of bank payments. As a result of the health crisis, the time allocated to this Parliament has passed too quickly, but in the future we will have to focus in depth on the income of the heritage and the income of the land, as our group will propose through an appeal amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] Because its members are, in any case, convinced of the usefulness of this budget, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the 2022 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u293	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u294	It's the last one! The PLF for 2022 is the last budget of this quinquennium and its meaning is clear: the President of the Republic, his government and his majority have gone on the campaign. This has been recalled many times, it is a budget with holes that awaits us, before the integration of the advertisements that have multiplied in recent months. This campaign already looks like a real show at the Jean-Jacques Goldman: "I give you, I give you, I give you"! The announcements, in billions of euros, will be incorporated by way of amendment by the Government, which will bypass the analyses of the High Council for Public Finance and the control of Parliament on the consequences of the arrangements concerned. This last budget is also the conclusion of a trajectory started in 2017: the rich structurally richer and the poor structurally poorer! While the most modest and the poorest are at the end, the increase in heating and fuel bills sounds like a coup de grace. The anger is rumbling, Minister Delegate: now there are 10 million people suffering from your policy. Let us look back at some emblematic measures of this mandate, which are the markers of your policy and which we are still paying today. It all started with the abolition of the ISF and the creation of the flat tax, the single flat tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u295	The brand of the president of the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u296	It was a signal to the very rich, and not to any one: to those in the world of finance! In a few words, for our citizens to understand what we're talking about, you have excluded shares from the wealth tax base and, icing on the cake, you have reduced the income tax on those same shares – dividends, in a way – as well as social contributions. It is scandalous: by doing so, you have emptied the social funds and deprived our country of its ability to redistribute wealth. That is the principle of supply policy, which is indispensable for economic recovery, you will tell me. However, I have not seen any marked improvement in the trade balance since then. The introduction of the flat tax and the abolition of the ISF result in a loss of more than EUR 5 billion each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u297	It's a gift to the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u298	Can you only imagine what we could do with such a sum? One could pay 1000 euros – a thirteenth month – to the 5 million modest pensioners! Let us continue to enumerate these political markers that I believe will stick to your skin despite your fine speeches. I am thinking, for example, of the scandalous reform of unemployment insurance. Again, remember: through this, you attack those who run after a job or who have just lost it. Imagine the psychological state in which a man or woman is in this situation: whole families find themselves weakened. However, with your reform, 1.15 million unemployed people – particularly those who work intermittently or chain short contracts, of which I recall that they currently account for 58% of jobs – are at risk of falling their benefits, by an average of 17%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u299	Yes! It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u300	The loss could even reach 40% for the 400,000 most precarious unemployed. It's a nameless indecency! Let us continue with your refusal to deconjugate the AAH. Of course, the benefit has been reassessed. However, it seems to me that you have not understood anything about the lives of families with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u301	But of course...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u302	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u303	You only have a few ridiculous figures in your mouth. Believe me, these families, like everyone else, yearn for their child to be safe throughout his life. And when it is difficult for some of them to find a job, solidarity must take over so that they can benefit from financial security. As for the child – young or adult with disabilities – he or she has the right to respect for his or her autonomy and emotional life. In spite of this, you are stubborn: there is no spark of humility or humanity in this draft budget. Let's continue with the energy check. First of all, I don't think you've seen the price boom that we know. Then, the EUR 100 increase in the energy check you are proposing is a complete ridicule: it is not in common with what the most affected could expect. We will return to this by means of amendments, but still: you will have to make some budgetary improvements. Minister Delegate, when the one before you at the pump buys only for 20 euros of gasoline, what do you deduct from it? Can you imagine that it is because he likes to go back there as often as possible, or because there is a real problem of purchasing power and the end of months in France? Not only is the amount of the energy check too low – I think it would have to be doubled – but the ceiling of eligibility that you have chosen is too low: by setting it at 10800 euros per unit of consumption, you restrict the scheme to those who receive the social minimums and you forget the modest workers who, especially in rural areas, have no choice but to take their car to go to work. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, you also have to modulate the energy check according to the climate coefficient of each department: depending on whether you live in the north or south, there can be 500 euros of difference on the energy bill. When we talk about climate and pretend to understand the territories, we must at least realize that there is a north and a south in France – otherwise, we must say, we are to the west!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u304	[[Smile]] There are very good people in the West, let me remind you. Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u305	A budget for exiting the crisis: this is the characteristic of the 2022 finance bill, which also applies to local and regional authorities. As a necessary foundation for the deployment of public policies in our territories, the latter were key players in protecting the French during the crisis. The various mechanisms and safety nets that we have adopted in the framework of the latest financial laws have been up to date, although the financial situations of the different local and regional authorities are of course heterogeneous. We will have to remain vigilant in 2022 to adapt the support mechanisms on a case-by-case basis, because some of them will undoubtedly still need to be accompanied. In its report of June 2021, the Court of Auditors goes back on this financial support of the State, which allowed to limit the deterioration of local public finances, which was less strong than anticipated, while many predicted the worst. It is a budget for exiting the crisis, therefore, but also for fiscal stability, strengthening recovery and supporting investment. In this regard, we welcome the €350 million in additional local investment support to be deployed to feed the green recovery and transition contracts. After the exceptional envelope of almost EUR 1 billion opened for the financial years 2020 and 2021, this additional abundance represents a new sign that investment also and above all goes through local authorities. It is for this reason that I will propose, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, an amendment aimed at strengthening the investment capacity of the communities by giving them the opportunity to collect VAT refunds through the VAT Clearing Fund (VATF) in year n+l rather than year n+2, as is currently the case. As we know, communities are at the heart of the recovery, and they act as close as possible to economic actors and our fellow citizens. Under the France Recovery Plan, the State has already mobilised €2.5 billion of investment grants for them in 2020 and 2021. The Prime Minister's announcements on housing, following the report of the committee chaired by François Rebsamen, are also in the right direction. In particular, housing renewal contracts or the exemption from land tax on built properties (TFPB) are expected measures. We will pay attention to their transcription in the PLF. Finally, it is a stability budget, as for the fifth consecutive year, the overall operating allocation (GF) remains stable at constant scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u306	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u307	It is worth recalling that the allocations of local and regional authorities had been reduced by almost EUR 10 billion during the previous mandate. Let's not forget that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u308	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u309	By 2022, 18.3 billion euros will come back to the municipal block and 8.5 billion euros to the departments, or almost 27 billion euros in total. Stability also stems from the fact that tax reforms undertaken since the beginning of the mandate, such as the abolition of the housing tax or the reduction of production taxes, are compensated by the State. However, they represent a disruption to local finances. These measures were expected and allowed to restore purchasing power to the French and room for manoeuvre to the companies. We are proud to have voted them and worked hard to ensure that compensation to communities is as fair as possible. However, we now need to rethink local public finances as a whole, as these changes have helped to dissipate the fiscal link between the citizen and the community. This is a far-reaching and ambitious reform that we will therefore have to carry out in order to achieve a more legible and effective system in order to guarantee the fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities. Finally, the experiment with the recentralisation of the RSA proposed in this finance bill, which we welcome, is further proof of the state's commitment to the stability of local and regional authorities. In this sense, the PLF responds to a strong demand from departments, such as the Seine-Saint-Denis, whose budget is heavily burdened by the management of the RSA. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, the finance bill before us is a serious piece of legislation that meets the needs of communities by empowering them to contribute to the recovery and strengthening of investment. The Action Group will make proposals to improve the various mechanisms proposed during a debate which we hope will be constructive and enriching.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u310	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u311	It is a cultural institution well known to Parisians: it is the theatre of the Huchette, where is played and replayed, without interruption since 1954, week after week, the famous play by Ionesco, La Cantatrice bald. As we prepare to examine the last PLF of the quinquennium, the majority seems, in their own way, to pay a vibrant tribute to this theatre, showing the same consistency in the programming of an absurd play. Indeed, year after year, from PLF to PLFR, despite the criticisms argued by the opposition, despite the alarming reports of economists or experts, despite the social and popular mobilizations, despite the crisis, your government and its majority stubbornly pursue an absurd fiscal policy because unjust and ineffective, even at the strict economic level. This year again, you are about to vote for a budget that undermines the revenue of the state, obstinating you in this crazy downward trajectory of taxation, worthy of the world before – a trajectory that does not benefit the most modest households or the companies hardest hit by the crisis. The only winners will be our richest citizens and the most heavily subsidized multinationals. As a result, compulsory levies, taxes and social contributions will fall by €6 billion, thanks to a further reduction in the housing tax and a further reduction in the corporate tax, to the almost exclusive benefit of the richest and the largest companies. Over the five-year period, more than 50 billion will have been exempted from the nation's budget: in other words, your policy will have reduced our financial room for manoeuvre by 50 billion euros, weakening all the more public services whose crisis has reminded us how much they were necessary, even weakened by your successive measures. Is it a question of saving the French an unbearable tax burden to which the most modest ones would suffer? Of course not – or at the margin! The removal of the ISF, which you do not want to return to, and the creation of the flat tax allow the richest 0.1 per cent to see their income rise by 25 per cent, which costs the community 5 billion euros each year, while half of the gains from the removal of the housing tax will be captured by 20 per cent of the richest households, according to your forecasts. Cost of the measure: EUR 8.8 billion. As far as companies are concerned, the fall in production taxes not only harms local authorities but also benefits two thirds of those of more than 250 employees, mainly located in the gas and electricity sectors, which are therefore polluting, or in finance. If again this gabegie of public money was only the fruit of exceptional aid to large companies hit by the crisis... but not, they are perennial gifts! And what about CAC40 companies that have raised 51 billion dividends with one hand, and dismissed 600,000 employees from the other?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u312	We must also talk about salary increases, as for the police!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u313	If this inconsiderate contraction of our recipes ultimately benefited all by the sacrosanct growth, we could reconsider your arguments... Alas, this is not the case! In addition to its blatant injustice, the record after five years of budgetary planning of this liberal policy is its obvious inefficiency. A recent report by the Tax Reform Evaluation Committee, which is indirectly attached to the Prime Minister, makes it very bitter: for the moment, this committee is unable to answer yes or no to the question whether the 2018 reform has had a positive impact on the economy, but it does not see any impact of the symmetrical 2013 reform on business investment. In conclusion, with regard to this budgetary exercise – as the previous ones do – I can only be dismayed by the poor quality of the debate in committee, where tired actors have misled an already repeated text without great conviction... What a great democratic moment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u314	You weren't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u315	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Thus, all our proposals to combat tax niches in favour of the most polluting companies have been systematically rejected, all our amendments in favour of a greater progressivity of taxation deemed obviously excessive for the most fortunate and all our warnings regarding the absence of serious studies linking non-targeted tax cuts to increases in excluded investments! Even the health crisis and its social and economic consequences do not make you doubt your ultraliberal software... except for the most fortunate who live in the hooks of the state. Our reply will therefore be the same as in previous years: we will vote against this first part of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u316	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u317	The Libertés et Territoires Group supports a number of expenditure in the right direction, including the implementation of the various programming laws, the upgrading of the treatment of teachers and measures related to emergency accommodation. However, it is not incongruous to question the stratospheric level of public debt, soon to reach EUR 2950 billion, or even more, just as, as a new scandal of globalised tax evasion has just erupted, to ask ourselves about the improvement of resource management, about solidarity and the contribution of major assets and digital groups to our common future. In this regard, I welcome with hope the agreement reached within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), but I look forward to its full and concrete implementation. Who, in the end, will pay the crisis bill? The answer to this dreadful question, which remains open, threatens the future, but I do not believe that growth alone will make it possible to know. Some believe that the crisis will lead to the emergence of a new world; I am at least convinced that it will speed up the changes already at work. We hope that public action will be taken to optimize its meaning, particularly in terms of solidarity, territorial competence and ecological transition. The question of the cost of energy is essential in the fight against insecurity. The French, as we know, are facing an explosion in their energy bill, gas prices rose again at the beginning of the month after several successive monthly increases; The emergency response – energy check, temporary blocking of increases – will probably be insufficient and action will certainly have to be taken through the reform of energy taxation and the renovation of buildings, as well as by facing the difficulties faced by economic actors as a result of the increase in the price of raw materials. With regard to energy renewal, we had alerted the Government to the need for a higher envelope for the MaPrimeRenov' system. The $2 billion envelope over two years has already been exhausted and the Government is forced to react by adding another $2 billion. These future investments, which strengthen energy independence, must be strengthened and sustained; France has 11.5 million private housing units very poorly isolated, and the objective of renovating all housing units by 2035 is far from being achieved. This energy transition, like that of mobility, will not take place without the communities. However, we are still waiting to take account of territorial specificities. I shall once again refer to Corsica's budgetary arrangements. The tax issue is the subject of claims that go back a long way in time; provisions have sometimes been granted in exchange for compensations – the abandonment of ownership on forests – or for transfers of powers – the territorial management of roads. While Corsica, because of its serious economic and social problems, benefits from fiscal particularism, it is too piecemeal, too limited to change things in depth. The enforced disappearance of Miot orders, without compensation, has brutally called into question the transmission from one generation to the other of the most modest family property! Of course, tax systems have supported consumption of products most often imported, but have not generated or generated production activities or prices downwards, and in no way prevented the development of the residential economy, with its imbalances and inadequacies. The tax provisions applied in Corsica constitute a disparate set, often marked by overlaps and not without perverse effects, which each budget must defend here the extension or deepening. Let us understand that we are not asking for the same treatment as the average, taking into account our concrete reality, that it is certainly not the fault of the islanders if Corsica is in such a degraded situation and that, as we have been asking for for four years, it will be necessary to flatten things up and propose to Corsicans a real social and development status, alone capable of promoting economic dynamics for the greatest benefit not only of the islanders but also of public budgets. Corsica is not privileged. It is an island that the catastrophic inadequacies of public policies have impoverished...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u318	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u319	... and that the latter must now rise. It is a matter of justice and I ask you, once again, to understand it and to act in that direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u320	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u321	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u322	This finance bill for the year 2022 is the last of the legislature and, if it is supposedly struck with the seal of the desire for a post-health crisis recovery, I see it above all as a trompe l'oeil budget. For if you, the government, the committee, the parliamentary majority, are constantly hammering that it is the one of growth, of rebound, or what I still know... it is above all that of the race for the deficit, with a public expenditure that will amount to 57 % of GDP by 2022, a European record! Six months before the presidential election, everyone understands the electoral process behind this finance bill, namely 35 billion euros of demagogic promises, sometimes even clientelists, and for some poorly oriented. The question we finally ask ourselves is: where is vision, ambition? Because I see nothing ambitious about this bill: nothing ambitious about the purchasing power of the French, nothing ambitious about energy, nothing ambitious about culture, nothing ambitious about business, about education, about health or about industry. This project proposes only a short-term vision, but it will have negative consequences far beyond the end of the quinquennium. With regard to the question of purchasing power, which has been mentioned on several occasions, the French do not wait for you, the minister delegate, to know the state of their personal financial situation! They note that, month after month, the price of their car is rising, that their shopping basket at the supermarket is increasingly expensive, and that the end of the month is increasingly difficult; One third of them report having difficulty completing their end of the month, and 15% say they even live in the open. There is really only you and the elected representatives of your majority to imagine that the French have more purchasing power today than before the health crisis and even before the beginning of this mandate! There is really only you, while 58% of the French share the terrible fact that I have just made. Your disconnection, which we have constantly denounced over the last four years, reaches its peak. You're talking about the truth when you're accused of being the government of the rich, but we can see that 22% of the 24 billion returned to the French are destined for the most affluent 10%, when the most modest 10% get only 6%! We all remember from your quinquennium the increase of the general social contribution (CSG), the decrease of the personalized assistance to housing and the reform of the unemployment insurance... No, Minister Delegate, you will not have incarnated the quinquennium of tax justice! You are bragging about a nuclear plan to face up to rising gas prices, you say we need to invest... but frankly, what cynicism! We all bear in mind the closure of Fessenheim and the fact that less than a year ago, the Government was close to taking action to dismantle EDF in the Hercules project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u323	And what do you propose?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u324	Cynicism also about gas, whose prices exploded by 60% in a year, without you having been able to anticipate it! The only solution you have brought was to freeze the increase during the election period: in plain terms, the club coup, of course, will be for later! In fact, this finance bill is a flight forward to mask your multiple failures in managing the health crisis, which you have tried to compensate for billions of public spending, which are now turning into debts that our children will pay. In conclusion, Mr Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, your quinquennium, the Macron quinquennium, will have been that of a dizzying debt that reaches 114 % of our GDP, of a debt that will have increased by 680 billion euros over five years, of a debt of 44,000 euros that now weighs on the heads of each of our fellow citizens. It is absolutely disastrous for the French and for the future. This PLF concludes five years of fiscal baton, declining purchasing power, debt explosion and increasing poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u325	And what do you propose?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u326	It will be up to the next President of the Republic to raise the bar.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u327	That's a good one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u328	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u329	A year ago to the day, the opposition was already defending a motion to reject the draft budget for 2021. It considered that the latter was not up to the economic crisis and was planning an explosion of unemployment, a record number of RSA contractors and a huge increase in the number of bankruptcies. Of course, let us be careful, but how proud we are to approach the consideration of this budget for 2022 by finding that the opposition was wrong. Thanks to the action of our majority and the Government, we have responded to the crisis. The results are there and GDP will return to pre-crisis levels by the end of the year. The PLF 2021 was that of recovery; The PLF 2022 is the one of growth, around three strong axes: strengthening the regalian, investing in the future and restoring our public accounts. The "whatever it costs" has proved its worth, but it must stop. We have largely supported local and regional authorities so that they are the major players in the recovery. More than 10 billion euros have been injected into their finances: 2.6 billion and 2.2 billion euros into the amending finance laws of 2020, 2.4 billion in the initial finance law for 2021 and 2.9 billion in the framework of the recovery plan. This PLF is a continuation of what we have been doing since the beginning of our mandate with respect to local and regional authorities, based on three pillars: maintaining operating allocations, massive support for investment and greater justice between the different territories. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The stability of the endowments is a first pillar: for the fifth year in a row, we maintain the overall operating endowment, the famous DGF. I repeat: this was not the case in the previous legislature during which this allocation had fallen by EUR 10 billion. That is the amount of what has been missed year after year by the local authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u330	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u331	The second pillar is investment support. Thanks to the DSIL and the provision of equipment in rural areas (DETR), we are greatly increasing our support for local investment beyond the record level of €2 billion in 2022. The third pillar of this support policy is solidarity with the territories. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have generally increased by more than 1 billion the allocation for urban solidarity and social cohesion (DSU), the allocation for rural solidarity (DSR) and the allocation for the development of the overseas communes and territorial districts (DACOM), which constitute, respectively, allocations for solidarity towards the rural communes, the priority districts of the city and the overseas territories. The majority of municipalities in the territories concerned have thus seen their allocations increase year after year You could tell me, this is all normal. Not at all! I would remind you that the DGF represents 6% of the state budget appropriations: it is clear that others that we would have used the pretext of the crisis to reduce the amount of these allocations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u332	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u333	That's not what we did! We have maintained our support for local and regional authorities throughout the crisis. Yet, a number of senseless polemics have emerged. I am thinking in particular of the communiqués of the association Régions de France, which spoke very aggressively when we have always favoured dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u334	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u335	The regions have claimed to be the great forgotten ones of this PLF: that is not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u336	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u337	While they feared, before the agreement signed with the State, their own bankruptcy and the declines of tens of billions of euros in investments over five years, it is clear that this year their revenues will increase from 700 million to 800 million and their investments will increase by 15%. We look forward to their equalization proposals as good news. The municipal block and the departments are not left behind in the PLF for 2022. For the municipal block, I will give the example of the €10 million increase in the allocation for biodiversity protection. For those departments which wish to do so, the recentralisation of the RSA is now possible in the context of an experiment. Should we recall that we have mobilised €400 million for the mobility organising authorities, and an additional €350 million for the Green Recovery and Transition Contracts (ERTCs)? In total, state financial assistance to communities will increase by more than €525 million next year. If you take a step back, you will find that, thanks to the support policy of our majority, despite the crisis and whatever the indicators considered, local and regional authorities are doing better today than in 2017 – much better! In four years, their savings have increased by 13%, their investments by 18%, their debt stock is stable, and their cash flow has increased by $15 billion. Then, when some, who do not assume their autonomy or their skills, turn to the state to ask it to pour out its obole every time they miss three francs six sous, their arms fall to me! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Patricia Lemoine also applauds]] The time for the presidential elections is approaching, but we must move beyond the divide to work together, with local and regional authorities, in the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u338	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u339	Members of the Dem Group cannot speak on the last finance bill of the legislature without having a word for the territories. For the local authorities, after continuing major territorial reforms that followed over the course of the majorities, this legislature was first the legislature of stabilization without redefining the regions or creating a new territorial level. This stability of the territorial organisation – accompanied by the constant maintenance of the DGF after the very sharp decline in previous years – has enabled local elected representatives to better project themselves and develop their projects thanks to increased confidence. More than that, I want to stress that we have been able to adapt the allocations to the municipalities, as illustrated by the allocation of support to the municipalities for the protection of biodiversity, which targets those whose large part of the territory is located in Natura 2000 zone, in national park or in marine natural park, to help them finance the specific needs that would emerge from this ranking. The amount and number of eligible communities are also expected to double by 2022. Our commitment to support the communities was also reflected in 2020 and 2021 in the so-called "safety net" in favour of the communal block, which consists in short of the state taking over the cost of the health crisis. For the most fragile of our territories, especially the neighbourhoods of the city's politics, I want to welcome the increases in the DSU and the political endowment of the city. These endowments have been steadily increasing since the beginning of the legislature. An increased effort will be made this year, which needs to be highlighted. The good resistance of local and regional authorities to the crisis allows them today to be the driving force behind the recovery, which we can only rejoice at. I also think I can say that we have had a constructive approach to solving the problems faced by the communities, as illustrated by the experiment, on which we will vote in the coming days, of the renationalization of the income of active solidarity in Seine-Saint-Denis, which follows that carried out in certain overseas departments. It must be recognized that, if this arrangement is to produce satisfactory results, departments other than the funding of the RSA, particularly in the Île-de-France region, but also in some rural areas, could benefit from the same measure. The State therefore stands alongside the territories as it stood alongside the companies during the health crisis. In some regions, such as Corsica, where several sectors have been severely affected, support schemes for entrepreneurs are intended to be extended. It is in this sense that my group has tabled an amendment to extend the investment tax credit, and I myself will support additional amendments to sustain, improve and strengthen this scheme. I cannot speak about the territories without saying a word about housing, especially social and intermediate housing. The recent report of the Committee on the Sustainable Revitalization of Housing Construction, chaired by François Rebsamen, sets out good prospects in this area, some of which I have been tracking for many years. I welcome the Prime Minister's announcements at the HLM Congress in Bordeaux, taking up some of these proposals, in particular the compensation of exemptions from property taxes to local authorities – about 70 million euros per 100,000 dwellings – or the creation of a tax credit for intermediate housing. I regret, however, that the text that we are going to examine does not, as it stands – things can improve during the debate – encourage the release of land to allow housing to be built. Nevertheless, I welcome the reform of the "Affordable Rent" scheme, which, in any event, is not functioning satisfactorily at the present time. This system is now mainly used in areas where the supply of housing is well in line with demand and not in tense areas. I hope that the debate with the Government will bring together all the actors, be they planners, donors, local elected officials or parliamentarians, to find the best possible balance. Several other avenues are to be explored, such as that of a work on the creation of a real status of the real estate investor proposed by our colleague and friend Jean-Paul Mattei, which would make it possible to differentiate levies, on property income as well as on capital gains according to the type of real estate concerned, whether social, intermediate or under the traditional private regime. I doubt that we are able, as part of the review of this finance bill, to respond to all the challenges for housing in France, social, intermediate or free. We need to reflect in the coming years on a far-reaching reform. This great plan is indispensable, both because of the collapse of the number of houses built and because of the need to pursue a real policy of social mix. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I know and hope that we will be able to answer some of these questions in the coming weeks. The Democratic Members will take their full part in this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u340	The general discussion is closed. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-11-O1008.u341	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the 2022 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
