ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u1	The President of the National Assembly took note of the cessation, on 21 January 2021 at midnight, of the term of office of Mrs Laure de La Raudière, Member of Parliament for the third constituency of Eure-et-Loir, elected deputy to the mayor of Saint-Denis-des-Puits on Tuesday, 22 December 2020. By communication of 21 January 2021, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Ms.Laure de La Raudière was replaced until the National Assembly was renewed by Mr.Luc Lamirault, elected at the same time as she was elected for that purpose. The President of the Agir ensemble group informed the President of the National Assembly that Ms Patricia Lemoine was appointed Secretary of the Assembly to replace Ms Laure de La Raudière.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u2	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u3	Mr Bruno Millienne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1227, concerning the proposed acquisition of Suez by Veolia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u4	I would like clarification of the Government's position on the purchase of Suez envisaged by Veolia. While the Prime Minister mentioned in early September 2020 a "marriage that makes sense", the state finally opposed the sale by Engie of its shares in Suez. After being placed in the minority on the board of directors of Engie, he recalled, always by the voice of the Prime Minister, that the Government had four requirements on this matter: the maintenance of employment, the industrial logic of the project, compliance with the rules of competition and the maintenance of the group under national flag. As new players, Ardian and GIP – Global Infrastructure Partners – have just entered the game, I am aware that we are only at the beginning of a process that will be long and will probably still leave us with surprises. However, I would like to hear the views of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery on the four objectives set by the Government and on the guarantees currently provided for them to be achieved. For example, with regard to safeguarding employment, if the offer of purchase is successful, how can the State ensure that jobs are retained? To overcome the obstacle of the competition authorities, Veolia planned to transfer Suez Eau France's activity to the Meridiam fund, before Suez decided to place this activity in a foundation – this decision is currently suspended by the courts. What will be the impact on employment? The question also arises about the waste management activity, for which potential purchasers are not yet known. I would like to recall that the Deputy Director General of Suez, Jean-Marc Boursier, mentioned in September 2020 a potential loss of 4000 to 5000 jobs in France: does the minister share this analysis? To go back to another of the requirements set by the Government, I will give another example: while some of the French authorities are working with one or the other of these companies, how can the Government ensure, beyond the work that will be carried out by the competition authorities, that these major changes in the water and waste management sectors in France will not have a negative effect on the prices of the services provided to them? Questions remain about this project; Many employees in Suez are worried and are waiting for answers, starting with those from the exemplary site of Flins-sur-Seine, in my constituency. The light you can give us about this could be very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u5	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u6	In this operation, the position of the State has been constant. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, Bruno Le Maire, had the opportunity to present her several times before you: she led the state to vote against Veolia's takeover of Engie's participation in Suez. Indeed, as you said, Mr President, the state had laid down conditions for its vote in favour of this takeover: first of all, the sustainability of employment, of course, as we are going through an unprecedented economic crisis and the employees of Suez, especially the more than 30,000 women and men employed in France, were on the front line during the crisis to ensure the proper functioning of essential public services, such as waste treatment or access to water; then the industrial logic, in particular to ensure that the actors likely to resume Suez's activities in France are credible, robust and engaged in the long term; Finally, the preservation of a competitive and quality offer, so that the essential tasks of these operators are fulfilled. Bruno Le Maire has always been clear that this operation, if carried out, must be friendly, i.e. accepted by the Suez Board of Directors and by all stakeholders. This condition has clearly not been met. A hostile and counterproductive operation would be detrimental to all. As we repeat, it is important to find an amicable, concerted and consensual solution. Together with Bruno Le Maire, we welcome the offers of dialogue expressed on both sides. We call on both sides to seize this opportunity to reach an agreement that is satisfactory to all and, above all, in a position to enforce the objectives we have set since the beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u7	The floor is open to Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person to raise her question, No. 1229, concerning the prevention of deposits of balances linked to covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u8	In 2020, as the President of the Republic had promised, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery managed with precision and finesse the support for our economy. We have not seen an increase in balance sheet deposits, but this may only be a delay. Given the long-lasting nature of the crisis, the elastic is tending and may well break. The many schemes implemented to maintain the economic life of thousands of companies have proved their great usefulness, compared to some neighbouring countries: they are effective for our TPEs and SMEs, especially those which depend on the tourist economy. However, given an increasingly unstable health situation, these schemes will unfortunately not be enough to save all French companies. This is likely to cause a very sharp increase in balance sheet deposits in 2021, at the time of recovery and recovery. I have also been personally alerted about this by many companies in Sarthe. I would therefore like to ask you about the possibility of creating a new system within the banks of France which, modelled on the model of the over-indebtedness of individuals, would help to combat the economic and psychological distress of entrepreneurs. This would be a gateway, a dejudicatory airlock, unlike the APESA model – psychological help for acutely-delayed entrepreneurs – made available in commercial courts, which I know well. This emergency cell would allow the eligible files to be sorted according to established criteria, making a difference between the so-called "opportunity" balance sheet deposits and those resulting from the health situation. On the one hand, there must be a distinction between companies structured as public limited liability companies – SA –, in SARL – limited liability companies – SARL – or in simplified share companies – SAS – and those in their own name. Mr Minister Delegate, what are the means used by the State to avoid the massive balance sheet deposits of companies that were still viable before confinement? And what measures will be taken to avoid so-called "opportunity" balance sheets?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u9	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u10	That is true, Madam Member – we have had the opportunity to raise this subject on several occasions – and business failures have, for the time being, been contained. Better, they decreased by more than 30% in 2020. Moreover, business start-ups increased significantly – by 21%. However, you are right, there are still concerns among many entrepreneurs who, in view of the economic situation and the lack of prospects caused by the health situation, are worried about their future and are afraid to take stock. On 5 October we set up a mission on economic justice, which was entrusted to Mr Georges Richelme, President of the General Conference of Consular Judges of France. This mission, which aims to draw up an overview of all the practices currently implemented within and outside the judicial framework, must, before the end of the month, make concrete recommendations, in order to better detect and prevent the difficulties of enterprises as soon as they begin to appear, and to better welcome and accompany individual entrepreneurs, farmers and managers of firms in difficulty. Madam Member, you know how much I am committed to identifying difficulties as early as possible, in order to avoid the implementation of this procedure, which is often very binding and psychologically very penalizing for entrepreneurs. I have no doubt that the conclusions of this work will enable us to strengthen the existing mechanisms for early detection of difficulties affecting businesses. My objective is the same as yours, Madam Member: I would like to offer them appropriate support, in particular by increasing the coordination of the various actors involved, in order to prevent failures, to preserve activities and to safeguard employment. I also hope that, thanks to training and personalized support, solutions will be found to enable the entrepreneurs who have to stop their business to bounce back. Our objective, in the very difficult economic situation we are experiencing, is to avoid human tragedies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u11	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, to put his question, No. 1234, concerning the census of the Guyanese population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u12	We'll never say it enough, to govern is to predict. And to predict, it is above all to know how to count its population, especially when it continues to grow exponentially. Referring to the health crisis which would prevent it from completing the collection within the deadlines, the INSEE Directorate-General decided not to carry out the census in 2021. Far from being anecdotal, this decision may have serious consequences for the Guyanese communes, which have to cope with an unprecedented demographic dynamic in the rest of the national territory, while facing enormous financial difficulties, their resources no longer allowing them to absorb the flows of new arrivals. We are concerned that the general operating and investment allocations of the municipalities, calculated in proportion to their population, are in total lag with reality. INSEE's recent statements are not to reassure us, on the contrary. Thus, according to his services, for fiscal year 2021, estimates will be determined based on the number of new houses officially identified. However, I would point out that, according to Guyana's public land and development establishment, between 40% and 60% of the housing units built each year in Guyana are either informal housing or shantytowns that grow everywhere like mushrooms, without any control. As a result, no one is able to tell us how many people actually live in Guyana: estimates vary between 270000, 300000, 330000 and 350000. Moreover, what is not surprising is that INSEE considers, to make its estimates, that migratory flows in Guyana are "slightly positive". However, there is no one day without ships laying dozens of migrants on the coasts of Guyana who feed the above-mentioned shantytowns, in deplorable and especially unworthy sanitary conditions of the French Republic, in these times of pandemic covid -19. Mr.Minister Delegate, the census is a very serious issue and its consequences are far too important: we cannot simply rely on the approximate counting of new buildings. So is my question simple: when will the State equip itself with the appropriate tools to count the number of people who actually live in Guyana in a concrete and correct way, in order to finally give its communities the means of their development?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u13	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u14	First of all, Mr President, I share your concern: it is necessary to find with French Guiana the solutions to grant it the allocations adapted to its population. As you know – this is a fact – censuses fail to take into account foreign populations in an irregular situation. In Guyana, as in the other French departments, the population census covers all persons habitually living in the territory, regardless of their nationality and administrative status. In Guyana, however, with specific features related to clandestine gold-plating areas, INSEE last year renovated the method of censusing these areas, in order to improve their accuracy: its collection is now subject to enhanced quality controls. Where, for security reasons, collection on the ground is not possible, the population of these areas is updated with the help of the French Guiana prefecture, based on data from the Mining Activity Observatory. That is to say, Mr President, how much we are trying to find solutions adapted to Guyana. The legal populations in force on 1 January 2021 now incorporate these improvements, which reinforces equal treatment with the rest of the French territory. We hope to be able to further improve the scheme, so that the allocation is equivalent to the needs of the territory, as you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u15	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u16	When I hear you insist on mining and people illegally entering the territory, Minister Delegate, I fear that you have not been brought up with the right information. For my part, I was talking to you about people who reside inside or on the outskirts of the great communes of Guyana, the squats and the development of the slums that we are facing. These people live by our side, they are not people hiding in the deep forest. They are quite visible but not recorded, while they have sometimes lived in Guyana for five or ten years. They use public services such as school, health or structural equipment, without being identified by the INSEE services, hence this delta which plays in our disadvantage. Therefore, INSEE should develop real tools to include this population in the overall census.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u17	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, to put his question, No. 1235, concerning the taxation of the State on telework by frontier workers in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u18	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, I would like to ask you about the adjustment of the tax rules, with regard to the effective taxation of the French State, for those who cross the border with Luxembourg every day or almost every day, but who have been using this tool since March 2020 because of the health crisis. Indeed, we face a real problem that we will only be able to resolve if the Government and, above all, Bercy's senior officials deign to take into account a particular situation rather than sticking to an administrative and accounting logic. In my last question to the Government, I had welcomed the new tax convention adopted last week, the creation of this famous threshold of twenty-nine days of annual telework below which a French border is not liable for income tax in France, while calling for this threshold to be increased to some fifty days, the maximum permitted by European regulations. It's on this request that the bastard hurts. This wish expressed by many borderers of the Pays-Haut basin was opposed to an end to not receiving sibyllin from Bercy, on the pretext that this evolution of the threshold would cause "permanently, a loss of tax revenues for France. » I hear, but for sure, I don't understand. Lorrain obstinate and even stubborn, I wonder, I repeat, I insist: how can Bercy make such arguments when he is still unable to give the amount of these supposed revenue losses on the first twenty-nine days of telework? I can be told that the convention is too recent to have this data, which I can understand, but we must stop wasting time: in reality, nothing is planned to do so. Even yesterday, in the offices of my parliamentary office, I met with a senior official of the Departmental Directorate of Public Finance – DDFIP – of Meurthe-et-Moselle, who confirmed this to me: nothing is planned on the exchange of information between our two countries. No Luxembourg company lists or informs our tax administration of the number of days of telework, knowing that the French taxpayer does not do so either. Let us not waste any more time, since the tax revenues associated with telework actually amount to zero. Shouldn't we start a real reflection right now on the need to raise this threshold to fifty days and provide our territory with tools to address the sacrosanct mobility problem, which would improve the daily lives of the borderers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u19	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u20	Allow me, honourable Member, to welcome your involvement in this matter, to remind you that you have been rapporteur of the bill ratifying the 2018 Franco-Luxembourg Convention, and to congratulate you on the determination and insistence you have shown in the search for solutions. It is a quality to persevere in defending one's beliefs and ideas. The new tax convention, applicable since 1 January 2020, provides that frontier workers resident in France and exercising in Luxembourg remain subject to Luxembourg tax when they telework from France, up to a limit of 29 days a year. Previously, they were taxed in France on the first day of telework in our territory. This twenty-nine-day package reduces the administrative burden in the event of exceptional telework practices, assimilating it to the ordinary activity of the worker in the other State. You want to raise this threshold to fifty days a year. In order to take account of the exceptional situation caused by the epidemic of covid-19, agreements concluded with Luxembourg and renewed until 31 March 2021 make it possible to consider that days teleworked due to health measures will not be counted from the calculation of the twenty-nine days. More generally, this epidemic must allow everyone to review their way of working, since telework is always the rule for employees who can use it. Like you, honourable Member, I think we need to continue to adapt to the situation and to seek – with you, if you will – the right solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u21	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u22	I am delighted with your response, considering all the positive externalities of the massive use of telework since 2020, particularly with regard to transport time and congestion of road traffic. Moreover, the latest discussions with the members of the Luxembourg Government suggest possible compensation, always with the aim of working in a logic of co-development. I will therefore make this request to the ministers concerned at the next Franco-Luxembourg intergovernmental seminar.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u23	Mr Didier Quentin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 1247 on the situation in the tourism and cultural sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u24	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, let me draw your attention to the very worrying situation in the coffee, hotels and restaurants sector and, more broadly, in tourism and culture. Despite the continuation and adaptation of measures to support these sectors of activity, which should be welcomed, many of these professionals are becoming increasingly vulnerable. An avalanche of balance sheet deposits is emerging, with several thousand jobs sacrificed on the scale of the Charente-Maritime department alone. In addition, the 18-hour curfew is a new brake on the local business – Royan's restaurateurs account for just 30% of their usual take-out sales. Employers in these sectors, directly or indirectly affected by health restrictions, may, of course, defer all or part of employer and wage contributions, including supplementary pension contributions. However, this facility will prove to be insufficient, as employers will eventually have to pay for it. In addition, they must pay local taxes and fees collected by public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation, such as the business property tax – CFE. It is therefore important to provide for an exemption, in conjunction with the local and regional authorities concerned. In any event, these entrepreneurs will not be able to meet such deadlines, charges and taxes. In these circumstances, are you planning to introduce a tax white year to safeguard these hard hit sectors, closed for almost 12 months, where a large number of entrepreneurs and employees are in a state of disarray?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u25	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u26	You are right: cafes, hotels, restaurants, bars, discotheques, travel agencies, tourism and event companies are hard hit by this health and economic crisis. Since March, the Government has put in place heavy support mechanisms, changing them in favour of businesses. For example, the solidarity fund's aid has increased from EUR 1500 in March to EUR 10000 or 20% of its revenue since December. As a first step, the restaurant representatives thought that they could cover their costs with compensation equal to 15% of their turnover. However, this rate is currently 20%, up to a limit of EUR 200000. This means that those who had one million euros in turnover per month receive 200000 euros. Bruno Le Maire and I have been working for the past few weeks on a scheme that allows groups with several restaurants to collect even higher amounts. The current compensation seems to us to allow these professionals to spend this moment, even if I am not unaware that the financial aid will not be able to erase their ill-being and frustration to be unable to do their job. You're talking about local taxes, especially the CFE. In the Third Amending Finance Act, the Parliament allowed the communities to exempt the two-thirds enterprises of the CFE, with the state taking half of this exemption on its charge. In fact, too few communities have decided to use this opportunity. Exemptions from social security contributions were also granted. With regard to the tax white year, I would point out that these companies will not have to pay taxes as long as they have not made profits. While I know that the situation remains difficult, I think we have found a model of financial compensation that should allow these companies to hold on. It is my most dearest wish for these very invested men and women, whom we hope to find quickly in their companies, where we will again have good times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u27	Mr Didier Quentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u28	I take note of your answer. You were right to add discotheques. I hope that the state will continue to be alongside our independent entrepreneurs to move beyond this difficult course and offer opportunities to all these closed sectors of activity, I repeat, for almost twelve months. The hypothesis of a third confinement tends to indicate that, unfortunately, the situation is likely to continue. Every effort will have to be made to avoid another brutal stop of all shops, by not making the distinction between those who are essential and those who are not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u29	Mrs Florence Provendier, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question No. 1242 concerning the competence of devolved services for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u30	My question is for the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, but I am pleased to ask her directly to her Deputy Minister for Rural Affairs. During the first confinement, young people entrusted to social assistance for children – ASE – Hauts-de-Seine found themselves isolated in hotel rooms and delivered to themselves, when others had to return to toxic families, without the possibility of follow-up. Such one-time shortcomings could be indicative of a distribution of competences that may not be well suited to the needs of the child, for which the State is responsible. In its report on child protection of 30 November 2020, the Court of Auditors called for better coordination between prefects and departmental councils in the management of health and education policies, in order to overcome these difficulties. In addition to ESA, my department's regional health agency – ARS – has faced coordination difficulties since the beginning of the health crisis. From managing the evolution of the epidemic to protecting the public, the SRA has not always been able to carry out all its missions. The creation of the RSAs in 2010, however, was intended to allow a better distribution of the powers previously assigned to the departmental directorates of health and social affairs, better known as DDASS. The management of the pandemic is proving complex and revealing some dysfunctions, which raise the question of the confusion of the tasks of the various actors, in particular the territorial authorities, the prefects and the deconcentrated administrations of the State. How does the Government intend to redefine the blocks of competence, in order to strengthen the powers of communities in certain areas, while reaffirming the central position of the State? The aim is to make public action ever more coherent, effective and responsive to the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u31	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u32	You are asking me about the division of competences between the deconcentrated services of the State and the territorial authorities in the field of ESA. As you know, child protection has been a decentralized competence since 1984. This in no way implies that the State does not continue to exercise competences directly related to the support and well-being of children protected by ESA, in particular in the field of national education, but also in the field of children's health and safety. The distribution of competences refers above all to the coordination and partnership of actors, since child protection is necessarily a matter of shared concern. With regard to the coordination between the State and the department, the national strategy for the prevention and protection of children, presented in October 2019 by Adrien Taquet, the Secretary of State for Children and Families, foresees a tripartite contract between the department, the prefecture and the regional health agency, the ARS, in order to better coordinate the actions, with the aim of developing the child's path. At the same time, local actors must be allowed to create partnership bodies in which all actors involved, including justice, can better work together. With regard to internal coordination between State agencies, several reports highlight the need to appoint a State focal point in the departmental departments of the prefectures. I am thinking of the June 2020 report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – on the establishment of a national body in the field of child protection or the November 2020 report of the Court of Auditors, whether you mention it, on the distribution of child protection burdens. This proposal seems to us to be a very interesting one. More broadly, the draft law on decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration and decomplexation, known as 4D, contains a provision strengthening the association of local elected representatives within the ARS, which will create the necessary links. All these elements are such as to enable more effective public action to be taken in the service of protected children. But, if you notice any malfunctions on the ground, as you did in the Hauts-de-Seine department, do not hesitate to report them to Adrien Taquet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u33	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u34	You understand this: my concern is above all the child, for which the State is responsible. Better coordination would probably help to protect him better. More generally – because decentralised aid is not only for children – by reaffirming and simplifying the competences of each other, the 4D law should improve the coordination of services for the benefit of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u35	Mr Didier Quentin, alternate Mr Dino Cinieri, spoke of his question No 1248 on the health crisis and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u36	Detained in his beautiful riding of the Loire, Mr. Dino Cinieri asked me to ask this question on his behalf. He would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration to the concerns of our citizens for the year 2021. After a very difficult year 2020, young people, employees, pensioners and those looking for a job no longer have confidence in the future for various reasons: sadness caused by the many deaths in family and friendly circles, anxiety about contracting the disease because of a rather broad vaccination, melancholy due to the cruel lack of social interactions, not to mention the dramatic financial consequences for many families. The health crisis of the Covid-19 has destroyed and continues to threaten hundreds of thousands of jobs in the territories, particularly in the Ondaine Valley, Pilat and Forez. Young graduates, employees of events, tourism, sports halls, commerce and industry, as well as restaurateurs, fear that they will find themselves unemployed in the coming months. Despite government measures – not funded – there is great despair in the territories, especially in the Loire department. While a tightening of restrictions, even confinement and further closures of businesses could be announced, Dino Cinieri wished to know what the Government intended to do in practice to safeguard and create jobs in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u37	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u38	Since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has been making every effort to protect employment. At the height of the crisis, nearly 9 million employees were placed in partial activity; Last November, almost 3 million people were still involved. All enterprises closed by administrative decision, in whole or in part, such as enterprises in the sectors most affected by the crisis, receive 100% government support. We can be proud of the effectiveness of this system, the most generous and protective in Europe. In addition to the plan 1 young person, 1 solution for young people: 1 million young people were recruited between August and November last, and more than 447,000 apprenticeship contracts signed in 2020. At the same time, we have put in place the long-term partial activity, which allows companies to preserve the skills of employees. To date, more than 470,000 employees are covered by this scheme. During periods of inactivity, employers are encouraged to train their employees to maintain their skills and prepare for the rebound of activity. A significant part of the cost is borne by the State through the NSF-Training, support for the formation of the National Employment Fund: we mobilize skills operators to offer suitable training courses. Finally, the "collective transitions" scheme must enable us to encourage the professional conversion of employees into vulnerable jobs, helping them to turn to the professions that carry them in their areas of life. As you can see, it is a complete arsenal that we have deployed to preserve the employment and skills of employees, and to enable companies in our country to overcome this crisis while preserving and strengthening their human capital.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u39	Mr Didier Quentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u40	I take note of your reply, which I will transmit to my colleague Dino Cinieri, for the information of the populations of the Loire, and particularly of the forest populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u41	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1254, on youth employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u42	My question concerns the integration of young people in working-class neighbourhoods or priority neighbourhoods of city policy – QPV. A recent study from June 2020 shows that about 30% of a generation leave initial training without a diploma. The percentage is the same for those who leave higher education. These young people are less likely to have access to employment or to work in generally less skilled jobs. The Government has set up incentives for the recruitment of young people with premiums of up to 4000 euros for a young person in CDD or CDI. Taking into account the additional fragility resulting from the periods of confinement due to the health crisis, these aids are renewed today with an ambitious overall objective of 100,000 new hires. However, they seem to have had a limited effect so far. I would like to know the precise number of aid granted in Sarthe and Le Mans to the most vulnerable young people, particularly those in QPV, since the creation of the scheme, and how many young people have been able to find employment for more than six months. I would also like to know the precise number of apprenticeship or professionalization contracts concluded for these same young people since 2019. In addition, there are several mechanisms – youth guarantee, support for young adults in vocational training or for young graduates who have alumni, intensive support for young people – the addition of which does not constitute a universal youth guarantee. Does the Government intend to launch a broader system linking the proposal for employment or training, acquisition and recognition of a qualification, and their corollary: financial compensation? Finally, I call for a regular review in each department of aid and youth employment, mobilising all actors and monitoring the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures announced, particularly for the most vulnerable young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u43	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u44	In response to the crisis, the Government was mobilized to support youth employment. Plan 1 young, 1 solution, with more than 7 billion euros, acts massively in this direction. And it works! In your region, 65073 young people under the age of 26 were hired between August and November 2020, an increase of 8% over 2018. In the Sarthe, 451 young people entered in 2020 on skills employment journeys, 1029 on contractualised pathways to employment and autonomy – PACEA – and 372 on youth guarantee. In addition, in your department, the number of apprenticeship contracts increased by 20% between 2017 and 2019: there were 3,450 apprenticeship contracts in December 2019, and the numbers increased further in 2020. More specifically, with regard to the situation of young people in the QPV, they are a priority at this time of crisis. For example, 20% of new entries in youth guarantee, CAPEA and job skills pathways concern young people living in these neighbourhoods over the year 2020. In total, around €140 million of the recovery plan specifically targets young people in QPVs. Finally, with regard to the link between training, employment and financial compensation, we are working towards the creation of a universal youth guarantee. The idea that guides us is that no young person should give up an accompanying career in employment for financial reasons. In this spirit, first financial aid will be paid as early as January 2021. The Government was fully mobilized to protect all young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u45	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u46	Thank you for the specific answer elements related to our department. Since the 1970s, many similar measures have been announced. Many national plans have succeeded each other: internships, exemption from charges, jobs of the future, generation contracts... In short, the new nature of the current measures must be relativized. Let's be careful! The efforts to be made must take into account the coming generations and find a good balance between theoretical and vocational training, in order to reduce the difficulties faced by young people and facilitate their integration into enterprises, with real prospects for development and careers. We will follow these elements closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u47	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to raise her question, No. 1241, concerning the agricultural development project for the territory of the Tescou.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u48	The agricultural development project of the Tescou territory, located in the Tarn, is part of the reasoned economic development of the Tescou valley, also called Sivens: it aims to meet its need for water and to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants. Discussions with all stakeholders – local authorities, Tarn prefecture, state services, farmers, associations, elected representatives, economic actors, institutions – have lasted for four years. There have been more than 30 meetings, totalling more than 150 hours of work. Beyond the main analysis of the need for water, reflections were also made on the future of the agricultural sectors and on the possibilities of organisation involving producers and consumers, of course with a focus on short circuits, with a particular focus on biodiversity, soil erosion and agroecology, in order to achieve a softer agriculture. From all these discussions came a finding on which all local actors agree: the need to have water in the valley. However, no consensus could be reached on the amount of water needed. But the urgency is real for farmers. I assure you: this is not intensive farming on large grain farms, but market gardening, small farms. Their existence is necessary if we are not only to develop short circuits, but also to preserve the diversity of our territory. Because in the summer, the Tescou is dry. In December 2019, an agreement was reached, signed by all stakeholders except that, the next day, a minority returned to this consent. In December 2020, the same scenario occurred. We therefore find ourselves in a total impasse, with a tiny minority of stakeholders refusing to move forward and, above all, rejecting any solution. That's why I'd like you to tell us today how you can help us get this valley finally fed with water. We can't wait any longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u49	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u50	We had studied with great vigilance this project originally envisaged in Sivens and abandoned in 2015, which consisted of storing 1.5 million cubic metres of water for irrigation and support of stretch, which would have led to the destruction of 13.4 hectares of wetland. This project was then the subject of strong protests which unfortunately gave rise to the tragic death of Rémi Fraisse, whose memory we welcome. Since then, a remarkable collaborative effort, which I welcome, has been carried out by all stakeholders to explore new solutions. It is now a matter of taking a new step in the co-construction process and moving on to a much more operational phase. I reaffirm my commitment, as well as that of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, to the implementation of these new solutions, which, as you said, reconcile environmental and agricultural issues. With regard to the creation of works on the Tescou High Basin to mobilize the water resource in addition to the optimisation and mutualization of the holding, the volume of water stored will have to be calibrated as accurately and as closely as possible to the needs by reducing, as the law permits, its impacts on the environment, and in particular on wetlands. This volume will have to be determined according to the needs identified from the study carried out by the Water Agency, indicating an agricultural need to secure the existing one and to develop new fields with agroecological practices. Data on possible missing wetlands will also need to be provided as part of the operational studies to be conducted. You know that these wetlands are at the heart of our concerns, particularly in the context of the strategy for the protected areas that I am currently defending. I will go there to see for myself the situation and the progress of this consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u51	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u52	Madam Secretary of State, I would be pleased to welcome you to my constituency and to this beautiful Tescu Valley. Yes, today we have to get into the operational phase. The actors are waiting. I find them very patient, since the debate has been going on for more than four years. The state must be there, even if it is not its responsibility to do everything because it is primarily a territorial project. Even if everyone must be mobilized, a minority must not block a project that everyone is waiting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u53	Mr Stéphane Buchou, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1236, concerning the experiment with the reduction of the EGR system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u54	I would like to ask you today, Madam Secretary of State, about the possibility of adapting the RGE system – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – to make it more accessible to the TPEs in the building sector, which are mostly 92% of enterprises with less than 20 employees. The builders of the building, whose activities are already heavily regulated, do not want to exempt themselves from their obligations in terms of quality and safety. However, without calling into question the principle of cross-conditionality of the aid and the credibility of the EMR scheme, most of these EPRs often have no choice but to give up competing for this qualification. Because the criteria for obtaining the project, for example the minimum number of sites per year, are disproportionate and the administrative burden on these very small enterprises is penalising. In these circumstances, can we not imagine the setting up of an experiment, an audit on a case-by-case basis, which would, for example, be limited to three projects per year for the same company, lasting two years, in line with the recovery plan? This would make it possible, on the basis of the model already set up for gas professionals, for an unlabelled RGE company to provide its customers with aid such as MaPrimeRénov'or energy saving certificates, provided that a monitoring of the construction site attesting to the quality of the work carried out is systematically carried out, obviously by the company. The easing of the EMR system and the reduction of administrative formalities would be a relevant response to the difficulties encountered by the building's EPRs. This would simplify their daily lives and give them easier access to the energy renovation market, while preserving the necessary evaluation of the quality of the work carried out by these companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u55	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u56	This issue is at the heart of government action and our ministerial pole. As you know, the energy renovation of housing is a priority for the Government, in particular through the recovery plan, which makes it necessary for as many builders as possible, as you point out, to rise in charge and expertise quickly. In particular, it is important that smaller companies, located in territories where supply may be a little less abundant, be able to be accompanied towards this EMR qualification. It is from this perspective, and as you propose, that we wanted to launch, with the Confederation of Crafts and Small Building Enterprises, an experiment called RGE site by site. For a period of two years, it allows companies with at least two years of activity to carry out up to three energy renovation projects even if they do not hold the RGE qualification before the start of the work. Three certifying bodies, Qualibat, Qualit' EnR and Qualifelec, will verify the admissibility of the dossier prior to the construction site and will organise a systematic on-site monitoring of the quality of the work. These two steps must ensure that the consumer is in compliance with the work carried out. If companies fail to comply with the rules, they will be responsible for bringing the construction site back into compliance. Qualifiers will also have to verify that the craftsman is well-assured and that he will be able to solve any technical problems. Our objective is therefore to accompany this rise in energy renewal of housing, in order to be able to carry out as much work as possible among the French. We have already received nearly 200000 MaPrimeRénov' files in 2020 and hope to generate 400,000 or 500,000 of them this year. Finally, I would like to emphasize that the Government is putting unprecedented resources in support of the renovation. Beyond MaPrimeRénov', the recovery plan also provides €2.7 billion for the renovation of more than 4000 state buildings, 1.3 billion for communities and 500 million for the renovation of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u57	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u58	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary of State. I too would like to pay tribute to the MaPrimeRenov'system, which is a real success and a real enthusiasm, particularly in my department, the Vendée, which is particularly attractive and where the housing market is very important. I hope that this experiment can be spread quickly in the national territory. For in a department where real estate and construction markets are very prosperous – this is the case again in the Vendée, where Emmanuelle Wargon went to see the difficulties in housing – it is important that a large number of companies can meet the needs of their customers, so as not to create traffic jams. The devices are not always applied appropriately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u59	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to put her question, No. 1228, on the protection of trees outside the forests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u60	Trees populate our landscapes. They are essential to our environment and biodiversity. A tree can be annoyed or remarkable, depending on its essence and the weight of the years. He is indeed the privileged witness of the passing time. In surviving us, he embodies a form of eternity, traces a trait of union with our history. Beyond this emotional and heritage aspect, a tree contributes significantly to our living conditions, producing oxygen, storing carbon, limiting erosion and flooding thanks to its roots, building a reservoir of biodiversity and simply embellishing our landscapes. That is how it must be seen as a real good of general interest, which we must protect. Trees are living and fragile organisms, which have to deal with all kinds of aggression and degradation on a daily basis, which seriously and irremediably weaken their health, their solidity and their beauty, whether it is the result of poorly controlled pruning or grubbing up intended to give way to projects of works, works or development. If, in France, forests are expanding, their surface area having doubled since the 19th century, the number of trees outside forests is decreasing. Yet these are just as vital to us. All too often, however, they are neglected because of constant land pressure to cut down and limit new plantations. While today our law contains a number of articles that protect our natural heritage, they are very disparate, sometimes very old, and do not take sufficient account of the environmental importance of non-forest trees by providing them with the necessary protection. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I wish to convey to you the important and formidable work carried out by the Council for Architecture, Town Planning and the Environment – CAUE – of the Seine-et-Marne and by the association Arbres remarquables: balance sheet, research, study and safeguard – ARBRES – which leads a working group of thirty-seven specialists. They have produced a document containing multiple proposals to improve legislation for the protection of non-forest trees. While I am currently working with them on a bill, I would like to know your department's ambitions on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u61	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u62	As you rightly point out, the protection of non-forest trees is an important issue. Beyond the issues of biodiversity and nature in the city, we are all very attached to this heritage that is part of our culture and our daily lives. Various mechanisms are now in place to ensure the protection of these trees according to their situation, but in fact in a diffuse way. The numerous texts do not always form a coherent and complete whole. The work of the Council of Architecture, Town Planning and Environment of the Seine-et-Marne and the association ARBRES is likely to really inform our reflections on the evolution of these protection tools. I thank them – and you – for that. In general, the protection of aisles and tree alignments bordering the channels of communication is ensured by Article 350-3 of the Environmental Code. The report of the CAUE and ARBRES stresses the need to adopt an implementing decree. I am committed to this today, and we will work on it as soon as possible. Where a tree has an exceptional character that justifies its national recognition, it may also be protected by its placement under articles L. 341-1 et seq. of the Environmental Code. The other trees can be protected, whether they are remarkable or not, by signing a contract of actual environmental obligation – ORE – if they are not in the public domain, obviously inalienable and imprescriptible. In the very near future, the long-awaited report on actual environmental obligations will also provide us with guidelines for the best possible use and promotion of OREs. In addition to the Environmental Code, the Urban Planning Code also provides for measures that contribute to the protection of trees in the city. In particular, it allows elected representatives to establish a principle of tree protection in the urban planning document. Local urban planning plans – PLU – and local inter-municipal urban planning plans – PLUI – can, for example, classify isolated or non-insulated trees as forested areas, a particularly protective arrangement. In the absence of PLU, article R. 111-22 of the Urban Planning Code provides for a specific protection mechanism. Beyond the issue of legal protection, I really want to stress the need to strengthen the collective culture of nature management in the city. The ministry is committed to it with you. Action 1 of the biodiversity plan, whose objective is to encourage all communities with more than 100,000 inhabitants to develop a nature plan in the city, must, for example, accompany these new reflections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u63	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u64	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these answers, and I am grateful to the Government for taking into account what has been implemented locally. There is a need for communities to have, within the framework of the LRPs or ILPs you mentioned, a reference tree that would work on everything they can do in this area, including advice and controls. We could also create new legal tools, especially to protect trees at the initiative of communities in urban planning documents, as well as remarkable trees of national interest under the control of site inspectors, in connection with those communities – I intend to talk about this very soon with the members of your cabinet. I believe that the best way to protect trees today is to work with the local.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u65	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor to put his question, No. 1244, concerning access to motorways around metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u66	Access to motorways around urban metropolises is very unequal in our country. Thus, in Île-de-France, the historic motorways are in principle free of charge approximately until the exit of the region or up to fifty kilometres from its centre. However, the inhabitants of my constituency of Essonne, who often use the A10 for daily business trips, are disadvantaged since it is paid from twenty-three kilometers from Paris. Users and elected representatives are increasingly mobilized on this subject: they expect fair treatment, i.e. free access to peri-urban motorways for all, everywhere in France. The Senate commission of inquiry on the control, regulation and evolution of motorway concessions submitted its report on 18 September 2020. It expressly stresses the need to take account of daily journeys, which have changed considerably since the initial award of concessions to the SCA, the motorway concession companies. The report also points to a significantly higher than expected financial return, particularly for some of them. It therefore seems legitimate to negotiate with the latter immediately the establishment of free motorway sections in peri-urban areas, without financial compensation by the local authorities. Also, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know what action the Government intends to take on the report prepared by the Senate Committee of Inquiry on the control, regulation and evolution of motorway concessions, as well as on the legitimate expectations of users.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u67	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u68	You are questioning the Government on the follow-up to the report of the Senate commission of inquiry on autoroutary concessions. By virtue of the concession contract which binds it to the State, Cofiroute is responsible for the construction, maintenance and operation of the network granted to it, in return for the right to collect a toll. Although there is no physical barrier between the Dourdan toll and the francilian end of the A10, this section forms part of the base of this concession and must therefore be financed by all users, including, therefore, those crossing the Saint-Arnoult-en-Yvelines barrier, as well as those using the Dourdan diffuser. To exempt from toll the only drivers entering or leaving Dourdan would be to make free for them a portion that would remain financed by all the others, which would constitute a breach of equality. The removal of the toll at the Dourdan interchange would also risk postponing on the local road a traffic bypass of the Saint-Arnoult-en-Yvelines barrier, which would cause significant nuisances for the communes crossing. The abolition of tolls for all users, both those on home-to-work and those in transit, would represent a considerable shortfall, estimated at several hundred million euros. The communities that would request it should then compensate the concessionaire under the applicable law. It should also be noted that the report of the Senate Committee of Inquiry does not call into question this point of law. In any event, the report will be able to feed into the reflections on the subject, with a view to the end of the main motorway concessions between 2031 and 2036. However, the Government invites concessionaires to offer preferential subscriptions for home-to-work trips. In addition, significant efforts have been made by the State and Cofiroute, such as the introduction of a tariff fixed at 1.70 euro, stable and below the average of the long distance network.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u69	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u70	I will pass on this already known information to the many associations which, for more than ten years, have denounced this unequal access to motorways. I think they will not be completely satisfied with your answer, but I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u71	Mrs Françoise Dumas, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1251, on the Charles de Gaulle Express project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u72	On Tuesday, February 5, 2019, Ms Élisabeth Borne, then Minister of Transport, confirmed the realization of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express – CDGE – by ensuring that it would not be at the expense of the transports of France, but without providing concrete guarantees. Moreover, the economic model on which the project was based, which was then budgeted at EUR 2 billion, was already very fragile. In March 2020, time stopped. The epidemic of covid-19 has become global and has led to the containment of the entire population in our country. The President of the Republic was even led to announce that the privatization of ADP – Aéroports de Paris – was abandoned. However, it is in this context of the first confinement that the Government has decided to approve the OPPBTP Guide, the Professional Organization for the Prevention of Buildings and Public Works, with a view to restarting the CDGE projects as soon as possible. It is truly ridiculous that there has not even been any question of such a project, whose relevance before the crisis was already severely shaken. It is in this context that the Montreuil Administrative Court annulled, on 9 November 2020, the environmental authorisation granted on 11 February 2019, "as a derogation from the prohibition to harm protected species". The Court also noted that the circumstances had changed in fact since the 2017 declaration of public utility, due to the sharp decline in air traffic, the purely transitional nature of which cannot be predicted, and also due to the waiver of the commissioning of this direct line for the Olympic Games of 2024. The Court also considered that the studies attached to the file did not make it possible to consider as "sufficiently probable many of the benefits expected of the CDGE, namely the improvement of the comfort of the RER B passengers, the significant reduction in road traffic, the strengthening of the attractiveness of the Capitale and its region and the creation of a reliable and ad hoc link between the centre of Paris and the airport". My question is therefore: in the wake of the delay on the Grand-Paris Express site, the health, economic and social crisis, the recitals and the decisions of the administrative tribunal of Montreuil, would it not at last be time to re-examine in depth the project of the express link between Paris and the Charles-de-Gaulle airport, and to consider its re-examination?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u73	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u74	The minister responsible for transport, Jean-Baptiste Djebarri, has already had the opportunity several times to indicate in this Chamber what I would like to confirm in my turn: the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project is complementary and not parallel to the modernisation of the RER B, which will thus be made more robust, more welcoming and more focused on everyday transport. This project is of major importance for the capital region, which is essential for its economic and tourism attractiveness and, in addition, represents 800 jobs and an investment of more than 2 billion euros without public subsidies. It also meets the needs to improve the comfort of RER B travellers, since it spends more than 500 million euros on this line and will allow to remove 6000 to 7000 passengers, as well as their luggage, each day, mainly at peak times. As you know, it is part of a logic of modal shift from road to iron, which will not only save more than 330000 tonnes of CO over 50 years, but also de-naturalize access to the airport. Maintaining the use of existing lanes will minimize the impact of the construction of the CGDE. It cannot be said that the Government has approved the guide of the Professional Organization for the Prevention of Construction and Public Works for the sole purpose of continuing the work as soon as possible, since this approval has enabled the resumption of all public works sites in satisfactory conditions of health, which we can welcome. As you indicated, the Montreuil Administrative Court partially cancelled the environmental authorization for the project, but the Crown appealed. I would remind you that this project had been recognized by the Council of State as of public utility. And, in view of the elements I have just outlined, it retains its relevance. The State has also granted its appeal a request for a stay of execution of the court's decision, in order to allow for a more rapid resumption of work. If some construction sites outside the scope of the partial cancellation were able to continue or restart at the beginning of January, the shutdown of the others could have operational consequences for all the transport projects of the northern axis daily, namely on the RER B, on the K line, on the TER Paris-Laon and on the Eole project. That is why the Government will remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u75	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u76	Madam Secretary of State, on 17 November 2020, in response to a letter addressed to the President of the Republic on the problems posed by the future construction of Terminal 4 at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle Airport, the Minister for the ecological transition and the Minister responsible for transport were led to make an answer in total contradiction with what you have just said. Indeed, they considered that the report of the Environmental Authority highlights several points which deserve to be studied and that the crisis of the covid-19 has greatly affected the economy of air transport; they recognise that the International Air Transport Association believes that traffic will not return to its pre-crisis level until 2024, and that there are several uncertainties about the future business and tourism practices of our fellow citizens; Finally, they conclude that, as re-evaluations are necessary, the Aéroports de Paris group will review its project in depth to take account of these new challenges. What is at the heart of these ministers' reflections on Terminal 4 should also apply to the Charles-de-Gaulle Express, as recently understood, and rightly so, to the administrative tribunal of Montreuil. Finally, while it is true that the project has been granted to a private company, it is the State that has consented to be the creditor of the project for an amount of approximately 1.7 billion euros, under the 2018 Finance Act, which specifies that expenditure and debt will be consolidated in the public finances. It is therefore the State, and therefore the taxpayer, which is the guarantor in the event of an operating deficit. However, an operating deficit was already expected well in advance of the health crisis, as the overrun of the initial costs for this type of construction site is generally around 30% and the revenue estimates were very optimistic. Other reasons: the prohibitive tariff, the very design of the project not serving, in particular, Terminal 3, and a planned terminus, as you know, Eastern station. We continue as on the Titanic: no challenge to the project, although the ministers use, for Terminal 4, the same arguments as mine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u77	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, to put his question, No 1252, on the development of the RN35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u78	For more than twenty years, the elected representatives of the Meuse department have been fighting for the opening of Bar-le-Duc and the bypass of the villages between Bar-le-Duc and Ligny-en-Barrois, the economic backbone of this department. The issue of Velaines deviation and the connection to the RN4 has arisen for many years. On 5 October 2017, a meeting, which I requested and obtained, at the Ministry of Transport, in the presence of the elected representatives of the territory, allows us to find a compromise, signed on 3 January 2018, to finally finance this work, estimated at 48 million euros. Whereas they fall entirely within the competence of the State, local and regional authorities agree to co-finance them up to 50%. However, we are told that they cannot begin immediately, because the state does not have the means to do so: they must therefore extend over a period of five years. Of which act. On 14th December last, we are told that the cost of the work has increased to 81 million euros, or 70% more! My question is clear: what is going to happen now, when, of course, the economic development of this territory is going to happen? The local authorities are not ready, of course, to put their hands back in the pocket, since they have already made a particularly important effort. Does the State have the capacity to provide additional funding to finalize the project? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that work has begun, a further reason to enlighten the elected representatives on the position of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u79	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u80	You are questioning the Government about the deviation of Velaines and the development of the interchange of Ligny-en-Barrois. Indeed, the State has committed itself to this realization by including this operation in the current State-region plan contract for an amount of 48 million, of which it is responsible for 27.5 million. This commitment was confirmed in the context of the territorial development project accompanying the establishment of the Cigeo Centre – which we know well, Mr. The land acquisitions required for the work have already been completed in almost all cases. The exemption of protected species, after advice from the National Conservation Council, and the authorization under the Water Act have been obtained and have been the subject of a request for an extension at the end of 2020. The first work will therefore be possible, with the launch of the first phase, including the Tronville-en-Barrois girratory, and the commitment of €24.5 million at the end of 2020. In addition, an additional €4 million will be allocated this year to carry out preventive archaeological excavations. However, the update of the detailed studies by the supervisor responsible for finalizing the file has revealed, as you point out, a significant increase in the cost of the operation. This additional cost, which amounts to EUR 33.5 million, is mainly due to price updates, as well as to a reassessment of the estimate of the cost of earthworks and works of art. The very important archaeological excavations – made necessary by the discovery of a necropolis – have also helped to raise the cost of the project. At the same time, estimates of the search for potential optimizations and savings, which reduce the scope of an additional cost, still need to be refined. However, this situation does not, at any time, call into question the commitment of the State: we are working to find solutions to finance the project. The implementation of the additional financing necessary for the second phase of the operation will have to be sought in the context of the next infrastructure contract, which will take effect in 2023. As soon as the estimates are stabilized, the state will negotiate with the partners an update of the project's financing plan – I give you the guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u81	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u82	You are providing answers that are already known, but I thank you for reminding you of the State's interest in this matter. You're going to reopen negotiations with the communities, so I understand that the communities will be asked to hand over the portfolio. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a national road under the jurisdiction of the State, whose lack of anticipation and precision on the amount of work has led us to this point. I therefore hope that the State will assume its responsibilities. I am not at all sure that the communities, in the economic situation you know, are prepared to hand over heavy financial resources to a project that, I repeat, is essentially the responsibility of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u83	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to put his question, No. 1257, on environmental regulation 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u84	My question concerns the draft environmental regulations 2020, submitted by the Government last November, and mainly the construction of individual houses. We understand this well, it is a question of encouraging the use of building materials such as brick and wood. If we can all share this objective, my question is, what are we going to do with companies that manufacture traditional materials? For example, in my constituency, several companies have been manufacturing traditional parpaings, often for a very long time. These companies, some of which have been in existence for fifty or seventy years, employing fifteen, twenty or thirty people, have made a great deal of effort over time to adapt their production and bring it into line with environmental standards. But environmental regulation 2020 is not about the means, but about the objectives: if I share them, then we have to know how to achieve them. Another example: I come from a forest-covered area, where we are very much in favour of wood construction. However, this should not lead us to encourage wood construction at any cost. Wood transported from far away, by truck, is sometimes much more dangerous to the environment than other locally produced materials could be. That's the meaning of my question. Yes to evolutions allowing to favour construction materials such as brick and wood, but taking into account the daily realities, our companies and the fact that, for some materials sometimes pointed out, a lot of effort has been made to ensure that they evolve in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u85	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u86	The draft environmental regulation 2020 – RE2020 – presented at the end of last year before it was put into consultation is a major step forward in promoting environmental progress in the construction sector. Beyond extending efforts on sobriety and energy efficiency, RE2020 incorporates a strong requirement to reduce the carbon impact of construction. Thus, the construction sector will have to make a particularly important effort by reducing the climate impact of construction by up to 40% by 2030. These efforts will have to focus on the construction products of the main work and the second work, and also on the equipment, by mobilizing all the levers available: the manufacturing and design processes, the use of carbon recycling and storage, the use of carbon concrete or mixing in the use of materials. In order to achieve this objective, the Government has chosen to take into account all of the building's emissions on its life cycle from the time of construction. For energy efficient buildings, construction and demolition represent between 60% and 90% of the total carbon impact calculated over a 50-year period. Limiting this impact requires the use of construction methods that emit little greenhouse gas: this means, in particular, building more often, and then systematically, with wood and bio-sourced materials that store carbon during the life of the building. The consultations held for more than two years have, however, shown that the requirements concerning the impact of the building on the climate should be gradual, in order to allow the channels time to adapt. This increase in regulatory requirements will therefore take place between 2021 and 2030, with three milestones in 2024, 2027 and 2030, constituting steps to increase requirements. The dialogue is ongoing with all stakeholders, with a view to finalizing the regulatory texts to be published in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u87	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u88	Thank you for your answer. We all agree on the objective, but it is important to remember that the discussions are still under way. For, having goals is good, but still we must be able to achieve them: it is our wish to all. That was the meaning of my question, and I think that is the meaning of your answer, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u89	I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to speak on his question No. 1238 on the political and judicial situation in Guinea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u90	My question to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs is about the worrying political and judicial situation in Guinea. The clashes between the protestors of the result of the presidential election on 18 October and the Guinean law enforcement forces resulted in the death of some 50 civilians. Since those clashes, many figures from the opposition and civil society have been arbitrarily detained. According to the prosecutor of the Guinean Republic, these officials are accused of taking part in the serious violence that took place on the margins of the presidential election. The alleged acts include threats, possession and use of weapons, including weapons of war, as well as participation in assassinations. Opponents' lawyers and families denounce a muzzle of dissenting voices in Guinea and assert their right to a fair trial. At the end of November, the President of the French Republic stated that the situation in Guinea was serious. He regretted both the constitutional revision of March 2020 and the irregularities surrounding the presidential election. He called on Mr. Alpha Condé, who had been re-elected from the first round for a third term, at the age of 82, to work towards reconciliation for all Guineans, in a spirit of dialogue, consensus and respect for the rule of law. Given the deployment of an unprecedented security mechanism in Guinea, the ban on demonstrations, even peaceful ones, and the punitive expeditions carried out in certain parts of the capital Conakry, how does France intend to facilitate the liberation of political opponents and to accompany Guinea in a process of democratic appeasement, which the Guinean people have long been waiting for?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u91	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u92	On 7 November, the Guinean Constitutional Court confirmed Alpha Condé's victory in the first round of the presidential election. France took note of these results. At the outset, she had, alongside the European Union, expressed her questions about the progress of the electoral process. Following the election, they both condemned the violence that broke out. After the presidential election, France stressed the importance – and even the need – of a resumption of political dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, in order to allow reconciliation for all Guineans, who deserve a peaceful political climate. In this spirit, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary of State for Tourism, French Foreigners and Francophones, visited Conakry on 15 December to represent France at the inauguration of Alpha Condé. On that occasion, he was able to recall, in an interview with the President of Guinea, that the initiation of a dialogue between the main Guinean actors was absolutely essential for the new mandate to begin calmly. In this context, France reiterates its commitment to the adoption of measures in favour of political openness, the revival of dialogue and pluralistic national representation. We also continue to monitor closely the human rights situation. In this regard, we are particularly concerned, on the one hand, by the continuation of detentions outside the judicial process, and, on the other hand, by the death in custody of an opponent on 16 January. We associated ourselves with the European Union's declaration of 21 January last calling on the Guinean authorities to shed full light on the conditions that led to the death of this opponent. Finally, of course, we remain committed to the economic and social development of the country alongside the people of Guinea, in areas you know, such as health, education, vocational training, energy and agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u93	Once it is not customary, we have been particularly pythagorian. I'm suspending the session for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u94	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u95	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u96	Mrs Edith Audibert has the floor to raise her question, No. 1245, on the relationship between operators and owners of tourist residences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u97	My question is addressed to the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the Francophonie. The diversity of the French tourist offer is a major asset that must be preserved "whatever it costs". Tourism residences are one of them. As you know, this model is in danger. Indeed, as a result of the health crisis and the repeated restrictions that accompany it, the tourism sector is particularly vulnerable. Tourist residences are also affected because large farming groups have unilaterally decided to financially support the current difficult situation for landlords. Without any negotiation, taking advantage of the crisis, managers stopped paying rents or self-invoked financial assets on the landlords' account. As a result, landlords have become a variable for adjusting operators in disregard of initial contractual obligations. This situation is all the more incomprehensible because these same managers have taken advantage of the financial aid granted by the State to overcome the difficult course of the health crisis. In a position of strength, these managers did not produce any documentation attesting to their deteriorating financial situation or cash flow difficulties. Trust between landlords and operators is thus completely broken. Conciliation meetings were held without any agreement. There's an urgent need for you to intervene. The National Federation of Owners' Associations in Tourist Residences and Managed Residences refers to the need to reform the legislative and regulatory framework in order to rebalance the relationship between the parties. I would like to know your position on this. In any event, the urgency requires that, in the face of the crisis, a balanced solution, which restores the financial burden between farmers, owners and the State, be found as soon as possible in order to avoid the over-indebtedness of small landlords.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u98	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u99	First of all, Mrs Audibert, I would like to apologize for the little organizational problem, because you had to wait a few minutes, and I am sorry. On behalf of my colleague Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, who is in particular responsible for this matter, I will bring some elements to answer your legitimate concern. As you know from March 2020 and the beginning of the health crisis, travel restrictions and management measures, taken as a result of this exceptional situation, have considerably limited the activity of all tourist residences and managed residences. Although the activity of residences was finally satisfactory in the summer of 2020, these measures placed many of them in a very difficult economic situation. It is in this context that residential managers have informed the lenders of their intention not to pay rent temporarily or to postpone the payment of certain rents for which they are liable under their commercial lease. The Government is fully aware of the concern and difficulties created for the investor owners, which is all the more understandable given that some of the owners of tourist residences have even subscribed to loans and that delays in the payment of rent could place them in a very difficult or even painful situation vis-à-vis banks. This situation, we are convinced, can only be resolved at this stage through discussions between managers and landlords. They have already led to compromises in many cases. Throughout the year, the Government and government departments have sought to facilitate these discussions between landlords and farmers in order to achieve effective compromises that preserve the economic situation of residences and the rights of everyone, as well as the situation of donors. It is in this context that managers have in particular committed themselves to paying unpaid rents once the activity has resumed, and this as soon as possible – we are taking care of it. These advances can serve as a basis for the contractual discussion between landlords and tenant operators and we will examine the possibility of legislative developments beyond this emergency. I recall that the Court of Cassation has recently confirmed that operators of tourist residences have an obligation to disclose to the owners the detailed operating accounts of the residences in their entirety. Lot owners in a tourist residence and managing companies can also rely on the charter for rent deferrals and cancellations, which was established after this mediation between landlords and tenants. In order to facilitate amicable agreements between the parties, owner operators can appeal, as you know, to the departmental commission for the conciliation of commercial leases. Finally, I would like to remind you that, with the support of the Government, the representatives of the operators have also joined the French Banking Federation, so that their individual debt situations can be carefully studied in order to avoid the difficult situations I mentioned. In the face of this unprecedented disruption of the operating conditions of tourist residences, the Government favours the search for compromises, without excluding legislative developments as you mentioned them. I propose that you return to this point in the medium or long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u100	Mrs Edith Audibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u101	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. You have understood that this investment is becoming a financial burden, as the repayment of the real estate credit continues to run. The legislative and regulatory framework may need to be reformed. I am grateful to you for taking into account this question, which probably could not have been anticipated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u102	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u103	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u104	Mr Stéphane Peu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 1233 on the care of children and adults with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u105	Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, I would like to ask you two questions about France's policy vis-à-vis our fellow citizens with disabilities, based on two concrete examples that I have lived in my constituency. A mother came to see me after her son died in a Belgian establishment. Christophe, suffering from spina bifida, was, like 6500 other adults and 1500 French children, oriented, now a few years ago, by the French services – at the time, the technical commission of orientation and professional reclassification, the COTOREP, since, the departmental houses of disabled people, the CDMH – to reception facilities in Belgium because we do not find one in France. These structures, which are multiplying in Belgium, live only on subsidies paid directly by the French public finances, without passing through the families, whether they are allowances for adults with disabilities, the AAHs, or other aids that the nation provides to them. The establishments in question are not controlled, do not, by definition, comply with French health standards, and the criteria for the training of staff differ from ours. All these families, and many of them, do not understand why, after so many years and years, France did not have the means to have establishments closer to families and in accordance with our health rules. I would add that Christophe's death occurred in Wallonia in a structure where only French people are present. Of the fourteen of the pavilion where he was staying, all were contaminated by the covid-19 and three died – including Christophe. And I thank you for the account of all the difficulties that followed in repatriating the body, accompanying mourning as it should... This is my first question: how can France set up sufficient structures to avoid the development of a disability business in Belgium with French funds, to the detriment of families? My second example is also that of a mother, Linda, who started a hunger strike – which she ended up interrupting – to protest against the unbearable situation of family caregivers. This mother, whose child is a victim of autistic disorders, is unable to negotiate with her employers arrangements for working time: she is not heard by employers or by Pôle emploi. I know that measures have been taken, but they seem to me to be quite inadequate. There are 11 million caregivers in France. Can the Government commit itself, as my group has proposed in a bill, to the real status of family carers, with both remuneration and support, and above all a framework that allows, in the private sector as well as in the public sector, work-time adjustments compatible with their burden?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u106	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u107	Allow me to associate myself with the pain of Christophe's parents as a result of the loss of their child. I participated last week in the meeting of the Franco-walloon Commission, because it is a matter that I am very close to. As soon as I arrived in the Government, we re-launched these Franco-walloon agreements. For the past four years, no children have gone to Belgium, unless their family wishes to do so. There is no longer forced exile for children and that is what we also wish for adults. With my counterpart, Mrs Morreale, also very motivated, I set up a moratorium on places on 28 February 2021 in order to be able to propose solutions to parents who want their children or adults to return. You are quite realistic in saying that the situation is intolerable. That is why, as of last year, under last year's Social Security Financing Act, we have dedicated €90 million to actions aimed at offering a community life project to these French families and their relatives. And even though the health crisis has unfortunately slowed us down in our projects, it is a subject that I have taken to arms-to-body. We work in very good cooperation with the three RSAs, or regional health agencies, of the Hauts-de-France, the Grand-Est and the Île-de-France, which are the most numerous. We are following this very carefully. We set up joint inspections between Wallonia and France in institutions to ensure the quality of care, but we want to find these proximity solutions that are closer to the needs of parents and their adults. As far as carers are concerned, we have, as you have pointed out, set up paid caregiving leave – which can be up to three months – so that the people concerned no longer have to choose between their lives as caregivers and their working lives. That's not all: we are creating respite platforms for families accompanying children with disabilities or adults who are losing their autonomy, i.e. eight million people who care for children and older people. We can also provide for "baluching", i.e. a relay at home for three, four days, but labour law is holding us back a little on this point. These are elements of the supporting strategy that we have put in place with the work of some Members, notably Annie Vidal, who has been very active in this area, and we are very actively following this strategy to offer family caregivers, who are undoubtedly one of the pillars of our society, the necessary care and support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u108	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u109	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your clear answers, particularly on the first question, where they mark a step forward. I still have a regret about family caregivers. Indeed, the dialogue between the caregiver and his employer – whether it is public, as in the case of Linda, whom I have quoted, or private – does not know a framework, and the organization of working time is therefore to the will of the employer. The relationship is totally unbalanced between the caregiver trying to explain his situation and the employer, who may or may not show good will, and there is a vacuum that is in disadvantage of the caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u110	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to raise her question, No. 1231, concerning difficulties in education and the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u111	Today the teachers are on strike, for their working conditions and to refuse the sacrifice of a whole generation of young people. In France in 2021, in the sixth world economic power, Louna, fourth in Champigny-sur-Marne, has no French teacher since September, has only one hour of mathematics and history-geography lessons per week instead of three and has no teachers of Spanish and physics-chemistry since the fall of January. He is currently missing 147 hours of lessons. She always spends her time. His class is nicknamed the cursed class, because it reaches unworthy records of our Republic Thomas, sixth grade, has not had a French course since September. Amine, fifth grade, hasn't had a math class since November 2. Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, how do you explain that, in Val-de-Marne, 400 teachers are missing, not replaced? Hiring teachers? It is Emmanuel Macron who speaks best about it: "It is the kind of job creation that will worsen the deficit and not serve to redress the country. » In France, in 2021, you continue to close classes, even though students need follow-up in small groups. You carry a huge workload on the intern teachers and pour on them your contempt by underpaying them. You replace some teachers with three-month contract jobs, precarious, untrained – and again, only when you find volunteers. Teachers, however, who have a magnificent profession for the intellectual emancipation of our children, must perform without brows, find masks, open the windows, clean the tables and correct copies of students noted on the basis of courses they have not had, without having time to exchange with their colleagues to work on the readjustment of school curricula and the supposed strengthening of the health protocol, and if they dare to denounce these absurdities, macroist policy obliges them to be threatened with sanctions. In France, in 2021, young people and children were the most affected by depression. In one year, admissions for attempted suicide of young people under 15 years of age doubled in psychiatric services. However, nurses, doctors and school psychologists are sorely lacking in schools. In France, in 2021, the right to free education for all is no longer guaranteed. Of course, I am not talking about the rich neighbourhoods, where your children may be in school, but about popular neighbourhoods, such as those in the Seine-Saint-Denis, Val-de-Marne or Marseilles, where no additional resources have been allocated for an emergency plan and where you have refused to hire more staff from the Réseau d'aides spécialisifs pour les étudiants en trouble, RASED, even though confinements have aggravated school inequalities. Every day, school principals, teachers and parents of students write to their rectorate to warn about the lack of jobs and class closures. Every day, they call for help. No answer. In France, in 2021, pupils with disabilities were abandoned by the Republic. Leo and Maria, accompanying students with disabilities – AESH – each have to take care of six students with disabilities, have no masks and are paid 700 euros per month. You also remove positions for allophone students, undermining long-term work to build trust with families. In France, in 2021, Katia, a teacher at Vitry-sur-Seine, tells me that teachers are tired of the publicity effects and that this government is completely disconnected from what is happening on the ground. Why so much contempt and indifference to all these distressing signals? Zaccaria, a senior student, can no longer be part of this guinea pig generation, which is undergoing all the inequitable educational reforms at full speed. He did not know whether he was going to follow the options of his choice, whether he was going to pass the French oral, whether he was going to undergo the common E3C evaluations or whether he was going to be beaten by protest, and since Wednesday he does not know what wishes to register on Parcoursup or whether he will be accepted. You're going to tell me that these are not our numbers, that you're great and that you're doing the best you can, or that we're never going to do better than you are. Stop self-glorifying! When will you understand that the wealth of France is the education of its children? When are you finally going to act up to the situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u112	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u113	So many questions in your question! A common point, however. Indeed, I recognize and salute the work and commitment of our school teachers, whom I am well placed to know. Three objectives guided the preparation of the 2020 start-up in terms of human resources: to ensure the optimal coverage of the needs of the means of teaching, to maintain a high level of requirement in the recruitment of our teachers and to strengthen the support to take up the duties of the winners of the competitions of the 2020 session. In order to ensure better coverage of educational needs, the placement of trainees has been combined with the mobilization of supplementary lists. As far as school teachers are concerned, as a follow-up to the new employment measures for the first public level for the year 2020, the number of posts offered at the CRPE – the school teacher recruitment competition – for 2020, initially set at 10790 posts, has been revalued at 11415 posts. The replacement by appeal of the supplementary list of candidates on the main list is not intended to be implemented beyond the period of one month after the start of the training. Next, the new needs that appear are taken care of by contract teachers. With regard to Val-de-Marne, the CRPE supplementary list has been activated to the tune of 72 teachers and 40 contractors have been recruited. In the case of second degree public teachers, disciplinary logic is a strong limit. For the most active disciplines, it was not possible to draw up supplementary lists due to a lack of candidates. For the other disciplines, a call was made when necessary. The question of the replacement of teachers in times of health crisis is our main concern. You also ask me, among your many questions, about the health protocol of schools and schools, which has just been strengthened, especially for the restoration and physical and sports activities, which are now banned inside. Since November, there has been a share of distance education in high schools and, since last week, in colleges that cannot comply with the strengthened health protocol. In addition, a dedicated protocol sets out precisely the rules for the removal and isolation of risk contact cases and confirmed cases. These protocols have been developed in accordance with the recommendations of the health authorities. Moreover, in a January 14th opinion, the French Paediatric Society states that the virus has been circulating very little since the September school year. The exceptional mobilization of local authorities and national education officials has kept schools and schools open, which, honourable Member, we should all congratulate ourselves collectively. In the context of the emergence of variants, surveillance is obviously strengthened, including the deployment of nearly 300,000 antigenic tests per week. Further reinforcements can be put in place if this proves necessary and if, of course, the health authorities recommend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u114	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u115	It is very good to salute the commitment of the teachers, but it would also be good to listen to them. It is not in Neuilly-sur-Seine that a 14-year-old woman does not have a course in French, math, history-geo, Spanish or physics-chemistry, but in Val-de-Marne, and I think it is no coincidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u116	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to raise her question, No. 1243, concerning the parental leave of teachers on standby.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u117	Their names are Jean-Baptiste, Kevin and Nicolas. Their names are Nathalie, Laura, Martine and Nadia. They chose to put their skills and lives at the service of the national education, health and safety of the French. They are civil servants and encounter obstacles to organizing their life projects, obstacles related to hassle in the course of their careers that name, among other things, geographical distance, refusal to transfer or number of points insufficient to access the academies of their choice. In our permanences, the testimonies flow, the mails ever more numerous, are similar from year to year. Despite the many advances made since the beginning of the quinquennium, I am being asked, in the Var, about delicate personal situations linked to mutations that do not seem to take into account the family situation in which the members of the family are geographically remote. I'm thinking about this young woman who's giving birth right now in Rouen while her husband's in Brignoles. Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, these are couples, large families or families with a child in shared care, a parent or a child with a disability, a child in a specific school or with health problems, for example respiratory problems, and in need of a specific climate, or officials with dependent or severely ill parents who have been away for many years from their relatives. Despite repeated requests for transfer to compensate for removal, they were refused and encountered numerous obstacles named points, grades or grids. I am also thinking of the situation of this young mother of five, a teacher in a position of availability for not having been able to follow her gendarmerie husband; It raises children under the age of 12 and will not continue to accumulate, after five years, the points necessary for the advancement of step and grade, nor the entire quarters allowing the creation of pension rights. Isn't that in contradiction with the advances made in the family plan of the military programming law? Is it not surprising, as one official pointed out, that the Republic treats its agents less well than private employees? Without abounding in this direction, is it not possible to simplify or harmonise further? This non-conformity of deployment, movement or rotation schedules, which affects a family of a member and a teacher, is also observed during postings following the successful completion of a competition or the taking of a first position, or throughout the career. What measures could be taken to introduce the inventiveness of the private sector in the management of public service careers, and particularly in the management of deployments, in order to take into account the imperatives of life and well-being in the work of our public servants? How, with a view to improving the mobility regime, can we understand the joint requests for transfer of civil servants' couples in order to avoid difficult material and personal situations for the persons concerned and their children? I thank you for taking into account, as well as the various human resources directorates concerned, the family situation, the logistical imperatives and the health of the suffering couples and families, employees of the national education, the armies, the hospital civil service, the police and the taxes, to name but a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u118	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u119	In accordance with article 12 of the Act of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants, a teacher, like any civil servant, is placed in one of the following positions: activity, secondment, availability or parental leave. With regard to parental leave, it is granted "the right, upon request of the official, after the birth or adoption of a child", according to article 54 of the Act of 11 January 1984 on statutory provisions relating to the civil service of the State. Parental leave may therefore be granted to a teacher even if he or she is not in an active position on the date on which he or she requests it. However, since an official cannot be placed simultaneously in two statutory positions, a professor on standby cannot be on parental leave at the same time. However, he may request to change his administrative position in order to be placed on parental leave. Once he has requested his leave, the teacher is reinstated to his body, which has the effect of terminating his availability. He is then placed on the same date in the position of parental leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u120	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to put her question, No. 1256, on priority education networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u121	Madam Secretary of State, after your short hearing before the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education last week, I want to come back to the very important issue of priority education. For the past 40 years, priority education has given more to those who have the least, i.e. to provide additional resources to assist schools located in socially disadvantaged areas. This policy is even more crucial today in the context of the health crisis that we are experiencing, which has substantially increased social and school inequalities. However, under the guise of experimentation in three academies, without prior consultation, it is indeed the abolition of priority education networks – REP – that is currently being considered. The Government asserts that this is only a parallel route, which would in no way undermine the national character of this policy, and that the idea is not to change the priority education map but to broaden its scope. However, at this stage, there is no guarantee of these claims and we are still unaware of the criteria for this parallel route. With regard to financing, you say, after saying otherwise, that specific funding will be made available, but we have no visibility of it. You defend a system of contracts between rectorates and institutions in difficulty, which will make the allocation of resources random and create a risk of competition between territories and institutions. We consider that you are knowingly participating in the dissolution of the very priority and social dimensions of this policy. In addition, the achievement of the public education service will be aggravated by the boulevard that you trace to private education, which could capture the additional resources specific to the priority education. In the face of such a renunciation, I can only express my total opposition and deep concern, particularly for the priority education areas of Allonnes and Sablé-sur-Sarthe, located in my constituency. Madam Secretary of State, what guarantees does the Government intend to provide to ensure that the additional resources specific to the PERs, which guarantee the success of the priority education, are preserved?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u122	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u123	Thank you for this question, Mrs Tolmont: it allows me to go back to the experiment that we are going to carry out from September this year in three academies, those of Lille, Nantes and Aix-Marseille. You're asking me about the criteria and funding for this experiment. However, it seems to me to have been quite clear at my hearing before the Committee on Cultural Affairs. You are right: priority education is to give more to those who have less. However, it also means giving better. This is precisely the meaning of future experimentation. You are aware of what has been done in favour of priority education since the beginning of the quinquennium, in particular for REPs and enhanced priority education networks – REP +. In particular, let us remember the indemnification of personnel, as well as the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1, and soon, as I announced, that of the major sections of kindergarten. However, the evolution of priority education is necessary in order to adapt both to the changes in the territories and to those of society, as pointed out by various reports, that of the Court of Auditors, that of the mission territories and success handed down by Pierre Mathiot and Ariane Azema, and that of the mission orientation and equal opportunities in France of rural areas and small towns rendered by Salome Berlioux. I repeat this again in the clearest way: the Government will not change the map of the REPs and the REPs + at the start of the 2021 school year and the means allocated to them will remain unchanged. Contrary to what you have said, Madam Member, it is supported by numerous exchanges with actors on the ground and with elected officials that the experiment on the creation of local accompanying contracts – CLA – intends to respond to the observations made. The aim is to introduce more progressivity into the allocation of resources by creating contracts for schools and institutions that are socially close to priority education or are located in territories facing loss of attractiveness or economic shock. It is therefore not a question of making the allocation of additional resources to the institutions concerned random, but rather of responding to the diversity of the territories and the public through a much finer approach to the terrain and the mobilization of graduated resources. In this way, the CLAs will address the difficulties of rural and peripheral areas and address the problems of orphan schools or vocational high schools. As I said, three academies have been selected and the experiment will be started as early as September 2021. It will, of course, be subject throughout the school year 2021-2022 to a thorough and precise follow-up by the departments of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, as well as the General Inspectorate of Education, Sport and Research – IGESR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u124	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to speak on his question No 1230 on the safety of the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u125	"The city is anxious. "; "We can't be a no-right zone. "; "In Seine-Saint-Denis, justice is elsewhere. These words are those of the inhabitants of my constituency, in Aubervilliers and in Pantin, in particular of inhabitants of the Quatre Chemins district, located on the border of the two cities. I hear them every day in my parliamentary permanences and in my meetings with the citizens; I read them every day on social media. These words reflect an unacceptable reality in a Republic, yet long-established in the Quatre-Chemins and elsewhere in Seine-Saint-Denis. Insecurity rots the lives of many – too many – people in my department. The inhabitants can no longer call a police that does not come, to file complaints that remain a dead letter. Police officers are too often exhausted: one of them committed suicide at the end of his service, at the very heart of the Bobigny court in October 2019. The elected officials sound the alarm, but are not heard. In a few months, I asked two written questions, written three times to the Prefect to report the worsening of the situation in the Four Chemins, written to the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic: nothing is moving. I already hear your answers. You will take over the litany of the "additional police means" allegedly assigned to the department: one hundred judicial police officers, two republican reconquest quarters in Saint-Ouen and La Courneuve, two police station renovations in Aulnay-sous-Bois and Epinay-sur-Seine. Like it's enough! You will once again pose as unconditional defenders of the police and accuse those who, like me, denounce the situation, as if we did not want an effective, reassuring, respected and republican police! You're going to talk about "ensauvagement", stigmatizing the entire population of the working-class neighbourhoods, as if it were responsible for the insecurity it is experiencing! Words will not change anything: the naked truth is there. The means you deploy are not up to the real needs. The Quatre Chemins are classified as "reconquer republican districts" and have twenty-five additional policemen, but go ask the inhabitants if they see the difference! To fight against the deal points, you propose a green number! The doctrine you use is not the right one: identity checks and the repression of cannabis use exhaust the police and are all swordsstrokes in the water. The unjust policy of the government to which you belong increases the social and territorial inequalities, the desperation and poverty suffered by the popular cities, and sows the seeds of petty crime. You deplore the effects, but you create the causes. The result of your efforts? Failure. Police operations are failing in their goal: point raids do not dry up traffic. The blunders and drifts are numerous and all too often unpunished. In Aubervilliers last March, a young woman, Ramatoulaye, was beaten and "tashed" by police officers. His crime? Having gone out shopping to feed his baby with a handwritten certificate! The flight forward is committed: in the face of the impotence of the state, an increasing number of cities like Aubervilliers and Saint-Denis arm their municipal police. Such a measure increases territorial inequalities and tensions. The inhabitants feel abandoned and despair that nothing changes. Why don't you change politics? Why don't you really give the Seine-Saint-Denis the means of national police it needs? Why don't you change the doctrine of police force employment by combining a real community police, trained for prevention and surveillance missions, with a strong policy of dismantling the channels responsible for trafficking? Why don't you resolutely punish the police officers who are guilty of blundering? Why don't you start the major reconstruction of public services and the fight against the precariousness that will drain the soil on which crime thrives? In short, why don't you lead a great plan for public security and tranquillity in the Quatre-Chemins, in Seine-Saint-Denis, to finally guarantee to the inhabitants of our department this "right to safety" enshrined in article 2 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u126	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u127	In order to combat the crime to which you refer, a district of republican reconquest, – QRR – dedicated was set up on May 6, 2019 in the Villette and Quatre-Chemins districts, with an increased presence of the police forces,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u128	Twenty-five policemen...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u129	...safe for the population, with a view to a more targeted fight against crime. Thus a territorial contact brigade Villette-Quatre-Chemins was created. The aim of this unit is to improve police visibility in these neighbourhoods...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u130	It can't be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u131	... and pilot numerous joint operations with the municipal police of Aubervilliers and Pantin, the transversal sub-directorates of the local security department of the Paris agglomeration – DSPAP – in particular the regional sub-directorate of the transport police and the sub-directorate of specialized services, and the mobile forces units. In 2020, these operations resulted in the verbalization of 530 salespeople.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u132	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u133	In parallel, a dedicated judicial group, the Republican reconquest judicial brigade, was formed. He is working on his own initiative on networks for the sale of cigarettes, drugs, psychotropic drugs and narcotics and on the serial nature of many thefts. This judicialization is an effective means of combating crime in depth and of improving the character of the neighbourhood in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u134	We have to go to the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u135	Other measures are being implemented by the Aubervilliers police station. The partnership between local elected officials and the police station has thus been strengthened. A bimonthly meeting is held between the mayor of Aubervilliers, his cabinet, the city's director of security and the central commissioner and his deputy. Central commissioners also participate in neighbourhood and trade assemblies, and travel constantly to get in touch with the inhabitants. The grievances of the inhabitants and elected officials are systematically taken into account. The actions taken by the police services and the arrangements put in place led to a reduction in crime in 2020. This decline is particularly marked in violent flights, which decreased by 24% – 194 in 2020 compared to 257 in 2019 –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u136	Stop! People don't dare go out on the street anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u137	...but also voluntary attacks on physical integrity, which fall by 7% – 458 in 2020 compared to 494 in 2019 – and have a elucidation rate of 41%. Property violations also decreased by 12%: 889 in 2020 compared to 1013 in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u138	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u139	Listen to the numbers, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u140	Listen to the locals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u141	The number of burglaries increased by 9%: 74 in 2020, compared to 68 in 2019. Their elucidation rate is 12.6 per cent. It should be added that 62 drug traffickings were elucidated in these neighbourhoods, compared to 46 in 2019, an increase of 35%. Finally, in 2020, 1588 individuals were questioned and arrested in the Villette and Quatre Chemins neighbourhoods, and 461 were placed in police custody. The share of foreigners in the number of respondents is 87 per cent; 13 per cent of the total number of minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u142	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to raise her question, No. 1253, on the size of the Riom police district.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u143	I wish once again to alert the Minister of the Interior about the situation of chronic understaffing in the public security district of Riom, in the Puy-de-Dôme. Indeed, the situation has worsened even further since December 2020, with the management and enforcement corps being made up of only 46 agents and officers – I checked the figures last night – far from the fifty-four expected in the theoretical workforce. When I interviewed you in June, there were two more. The situation has therefore deteriorated since then. In a district made up of five communes and populated by more than 33,000 inhabitants, taking into account the particularly important weight of the missions linked to judicial extractions due to the activities of the Riom prison and the regular functioning of the Court of Appeal in Riom, this recurrent understaffing causes a very sharp decrease in operational capacity, to the direct detriment of the inhabitants of the territory. That is what the men of the police station said during the visit of the sub-prefect on 24 December. At last, there is an urgent need to allocate the necessary staff to this police district for its proper functioning and for a presence on the ground close to the needs of the inhabitants. I have noted that the White Paper on the basis of internal security proposes, in the medium term, to change the criteria for territorial distribution between the national police and the national gendarmerie. It would be useful for the Government to clarify its intentions in that regard and for the elected representatives to be able to contribute to those choices by providing their fine knowledge of the territories and their specificities, which could not be judged solely, at the national level, on the basis of the number of inhabitants or on the basis of a statistical table. For example, in the Riom police district, strong hardships related to the presence of a court of appeal and a prison centre are to be taken into account. Our fellow citizens appreciate both their police officers and their gendarmes, as long as they are in sufficient numbers to ensure their safety and meet the reality of their needs, which is unfortunately far from being the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u144	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u145	The fight against crime has been a priority of the Government that we have been taking on since 2017. Major steps have been taken to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement personnel, both in terms of staffing and in terms of material, legal and technological resources. The finance law for 2021 and the France Recovery plan make it possible to continue this effort. The Beauvau de la sécurité, announced last December by the President of the Republic and to be launched in a few days, must allow him to act in depth and in the short term. Finally, the draft law on comprehensive security, currently under consideration by Parliament, reinforces the already important role of mayors and municipal police in the safety of everyday life. As you can see, Member, we are giving ourselves the means to act. The staff must not represent the single axis of our action at the risk of neglecting the equipment, whose role is so important. In this regard, I should like to inform you that, at the end of December, the public security district of Riom had forty-nine officers and peacekeepers who were actually mobilized in the field and five security assistants. This figure is in line with, and even greater than, seven people, the key to the distribution of the workforce, i.e. the method of calculating their optimal distribution. By the end of March, the police district will experience two retirements, which will be offset by three arrivals as part of the transfer movements. I thank you for raising the issue of the constraints imposed on law enforcement officials by the tasks carried out for the benefit of the judicial authority. This is a matter of concern for police officers, who wish to focus on their priority investigative or public highway missions. Removing or transferring often costly, even demotivating, peripheral missions is one of the department's objectives. Progress has been made in recent years with the chancellery for a more rational distribution of burdens, but more needs to be done and the White Paper on Internal Security has several avenues in this direction. I would like to reassure you that the charges on this public safety riding are taken into account in the so-called allocation key mechanism, since it incorporates the hours of public servants completed, particularly in the context of the police hearings and extractions. This cannot, however, mean that we must satisfy ourselves, because these missions unquestionably obey the operational potential of the commissariat and weigh on the availability expected by our fellow citizens. You can count on our vigilance and commitment to move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u146	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u147	I have no doubt about your sincerity, Madam Secretary of State, but I assure you, for seeing it yesterday, that the figures you are giving me today are false and that those given to me by Mr Nuñez in June were also false. I had given him the exact figures by asking him to confirm or deny them, in a letter dated 9 June, to which he did not reply. The best solution, which I ask you to inform the Minister of the Interior, to whom I have already extended an invitation, is that he will come to the electoral district of Riom to see the exact numbers. You mentioned an improvement, which I agree with you, in the overall rate of judicial extraction. However, while this rate is on average 3 per cent for the national police, it is 16.33% for us. You understand that this level of mission poses a problem for the presence of men in the field. As for the number of posts, I confirm my figures: you mentioned forty-nine officers and agents at the end of December; There are now forty-six, bringing the real deficit to six posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u148	Mrs Mireille Robert, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question No. 1237 on the possible development of Carcassonne's labour court.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u149	Four senators propose, based on a document they have produced, the transfer of the management and agriculture sections of the CPH – the council of prud'hommes – from Carcassonne, Aude, to Narbonne, and the consequential transfer of twenty advisors from one CPH to another. I wonder about this possible reshaping, with a view to a better functioning of prud'homale justice. Carcassonne has a social centre bringing together the services of the former Social Security Court of Aude and those of the CPH. The CPH de Carcassonne works well: indeed, while the number of departures in France is large, it is almost non-existent. Similarly, while the average percentage of appeal cases is 66% nationally, this rate is barely 22% in Carcassonne. Finally, because of its geographical location, Carcassonne is at the heart of the department, and its court covers two thirds of its territory. If this transfer became effective, it would have a terrible impact on my electoral district, which is rural and very large, and would lead to the anger of lawyers and the council of prud'hommes. Indeed, Carcassonne has already seen his training pole close in favour of Narbonne's. I would therefore like to ask you about the future of the prud'homale jurisdiction of the city of Carcassonne and get some answers on this file.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u150	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u151	Madam Member, allow me to apologise to you for the seal keeper, who has been retained and who has entrusted me with elements that will respond to your concern about the future of Carcassonne's Labour's Homal Council. The Government wishes to be very clear on the subject and, in order to dispel these concerns, I am able to assure you that no reform of the map of the councils of prud'hommes has been envisaged by the guard of the seals. A working group drawn up by the Supreme Council of Labour and composed of professional organisations of employees and employers looked at a better distribution of the seats of advisers, in order to limit their vacancy. The aim is to ensure that advisers have a balanced activity sufficient to enable them to acquire and retain experience in the exercise of their judicial mission, while ensuring that they remain anchored in the professional world. The aim is also to facilitate the reduction of trial time through a better distribution of seats. The working group made proposals for the distribution of staff. In a small number of cases, he proposed the consolidation of sections in the management and agricultural sectors, whose activities are residual, without changing the organisation of the rest of the council. These proposals were submitted to the Chiefs of the Court of Appeal for consultation. It follows that the need to adjust the number of workers' advisers is a consensus; On the other hand, the heads of the courts have alerted the guard of the seals to the concerns of the courts and the bar associations concerning the merger of certain sections of agriculture and the framework that you have mentioned. You know the attachment of the seal keeper and the Government to local justice, of which the advice of prud'hommes is an integral part. That is why, in the face of the fears expressed about the consolidation of the sections, which seems to call for more reflection, in particular with the local actors, the keeper of the seals asked his services to suspend the work on this point with a view to the renewal of the year 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u152	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor to put his question, No. 1226, on difficulties in accessing visual health care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u153	Vision disorders affect three out of four adults and 97% of people over the age of 60. This is also the second treatment that the French give up most. The view is essential; However, access to care and equipment is still too difficult. The Government has committed itself to improving the management of the equipment with the 100 per cent health plan, which has been in force for more than a year. If it has made the equipment affordable, this plan has not solved the core of the problem, i.e. the abandonment of care due to waiting times to consult an ophthalmologist. The President of the Republic himself stated in June 2018: "The full refund of the glasses [...] is of no use if it takes twelve months to have an appointment with an ophthalmologist. Twelve months, however, is the deadline for too many French people. A study conducted in 2019 by the website The Health Guide reported an average of sixty-three days at the national level, but with strong territorial disparities: for example, it was necessary to wait 265 days on average to get an appointment in the Aude. Beyond the issue of equipment, these waiting times also lead to the non-detection of certain diseases such as glaucoma. The health crisis has further extended these deadlines, and we can no longer wait for action. There are solutions: exactly a year ago, the IGAS – Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – and the IGESR – Inspectorate General of Education, Sport and Research – provided you with a report on the visual field in which they formulate a set of proposals that go in the right direction – I am thinking in particular of extending the validity of prescriptions or the development of telemedicine. The majority of these proposals fall under the regulatory authority. Yet, one year after its publication, the report has not yet been followed by action by the Government. Madam Deputy Minister, why wait to act?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u154	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u155	Mr. Member, you are calling the Government's attention to access to care in the visual field and, in particular, to waiting times for an appointment with the ophthalmologist, who, as you pointed out, sometimes reaches several months. These too long waiting times are a major obstacle to access to care, with what this implies in terms of physical suffering but also social and occupational difficulties. In recent years, many measures have been taken to try to reduce these delays. It is now possible to renew and adapt its optical equipment by an orthoptist or an optician, under conditions, certainly, but without going back to the ophthalmologist. Cooperation between ophthalmologists and orthoptists was encouraged by the deployment of cooperation protocols, the expansion of the skills of orthoptists and the creation of recruitment aids in firms. To date, more than 60% of ophthalmologists use assisted work. However, I agree with you that we must go further in the light of the current situation. That is why we are currently working on measures to improve access to care, a priority of our health policy. You referred to the report submitted by IGAS to Agnès Buzyn, which takes a full account of the sector and makes a number of recommendations, some of which are in the process of decline. This is the case with the opening of tele-expertise to paramedics, which will make it possible to rely even more on orthoptists and is one of the keys to improving access to care; A draft decree to this effect was submitted to the Council of State. Other measures, such as the recasting of training, require more time to be implemented but receive our full attention. The Government is determined to complete these projects. That is why we asked the General Inspections to formulate more operational responses. Be convinced of our determination to improve access to health care in general and, in particular, to meet the needs of the visual industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u156	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to speak on his question No 1232 on the proposed merger of ONIAM and FIVA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u157	Established by the Act of 23 December 2000, the Fund for the Compensation of Asbestos Victims, FIVA, has made it possible to compensate 100,000 professional and environmental victims of this poison, even though some damage remains irreparable for ever. This compensation fund, which is the result of the mobilisation and judicial action of asbestos victims, employees and their trade unions, is now being brutally challenged. On 20 November, under the leadership of the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the Minister of Budget, a mission was entrusted to the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and the General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF. The two objectives of this mission were clearly set out: the search for synergies between FIVA and the National Medical Accidents Office, ONIAM, with a view to merging the two agencies. And that's where the bastard hurts. Of course, these two organizations are housed in the same building in Montreuil, and it would not be illogical to seek to pool certain expenditures or human resources. The National Association of Asbestos Victims is not opposed to this, but, for the rest, the prospect of a merger between FIVA and ONIAM has legitimate concerns among asbestos victims and their families. The two organizations, in fact, do not operate with the same efficiency, far from it. Created in 2002 to provide simple and rapid compensation to victims of medical accidents, ONIAM was pointed out for the period 2016-2017 by the Court of Auditors, which notes a malfunctioning operation, a high rate of rejection of files, very long delays and serious shortcomings in the management of public funds. Some of these criticisms are still current today. Conversely, FIVA, which deals only with asbestos victims and their families, is extremely effective and rigorous. In particular, it has managed to significantly reduce the time taken for training and compensation. Evidence of this good organization, the latest quality survey of asbestos victims on management reveals a rarely equal satisfaction rate of 94%. Rather than hypothetical improvements, the proposed rapprochement between the two agencies actually puts the FIVA at risk of deteriorating the compensation conditions for asbestos victims and their families. This merger project puts asbestos victims at risk of being drowned in a structure in which they would lose the benefits of expensively acquired efficiency. Madam Minister in charge of autonomy, to be from Pas-de-Calais, a region where there are many victims of asbestos, you are well aware of the subject. That is why I would like to know your intentions regarding this mission, the conclusions of which should be delivered on 13 February, as well as the guarantees that you can provide to asbestos victims and their families on the maintenance of FIVA as a separate entity, in order to ensure that the investigation and compensation deadlines are maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u158	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u159	The Government has given IGAS and IGF a mission to examine the appropriateness and modalities of a possible rapprochement between FIVA and ONIAM. This mission aims to assess the possibilities of pooling support functions, or even the relevance of closer rapprochement between the two institutions, while ensuring, in their governance, that special attention is paid to the reparation of victims of asbestos. The mission's main objective is to ensure and improve the quality of treatment and compensation for victims of asbestos as well as medical accidents and to define the best possible organisation for this purpose. It is based on the fact that there are many similarities between these bodies: they share the same mission of full reparation for personal injury and both have trades focused on the compensation of victims; As a result, they have comparable profiles and skills. In addition, they are both attached to the Ministries of Health and Budget, and their agents – 116 for ONIAM, 74 for FIVA – share the same status, work in the same premises and are governed by close legal and budgetary rules; Finally, their method of financing is similar and essentially based on national solidarity. Moreover, prior to the launch of this mission, the expertise of a possible sharing of support functions was included in the FIVA's objective and performance contract, signed on 17 September, as well as that of ONIAM, which is currently being signed. If the main objective of this rapprochement is to improve the functioning of institutions for better compensation of victims, this will in no way have to have a negative impact on the compensation of victims of asbestos. In any case, it is premature to refer to a merger when the mission is working on several hypotheses, including the simple sharing of support functions. Its findings are not expected until mid-February, and the Government does not favour any scenario at this stage. He is still listening to you, and I would like to assure you, honourable Member, of our full commitment to support our fellow citizens, who are victims of these diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u160	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u161	Madam Deputy Minister, you are giving me a partial answer. While no decision has been taken, we must ensure a rapid response and satisfaction rate for all users, both FIVA and ONIAM. This implies, if necessary, the hiring of new staff within ONIAM, so that there are enough agents to be able to respond to all our fellow citizens who are asking for these two compensation funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u162	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor to put his question, No. 1239, on the salary revalorisation of the health professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u163	The agreement of 13 July, allocating €8.2 billion to healthcare professionals, is a major and unprecedented recognition of healthcare professionals by the state. Unfortunately, it is aimed exclusively at midwives, non-medical staff in health facilities and EHPADs, interns and health students. This upgrading therefore excludes from its scheme the liberal medical professions of home nursing services and specialized foster homes. Since they are not attached to the public hospital, they are not affected by these measures and may legitimately have felt excluded from the recognition of the nation, whereas their contribution to the fight against covid-19 was decisive and their salaries equivalent to those of the public hospital health staff. During this health crisis that we did not leave, home care workers were and are even more present than usual with their patients; They go so far as to lend a hand in the hospital. These elements alone seem to me to justify the recognition by the State of this considerable contribution to public health. I would therefore like to thank you for indicating the intentions of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u164	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u165	You call our attention to the scope of the salary adjustment provided by the Ségur de la santé. As you recall, the agreement signed by the Government with the social partners on 13 July is explicitly aimed at public EHPADs and is also intended to apply to the same types of private sector establishments. It was for these healthcare professionals that immediate action was required in accordance with the planned agreement with the organisations, which resulted in a salary increase of 183 euros per month – 90 euros applicable on 1 September 2020, then 93 euros additional on 1 December. While the partners of the Ségur de la santé wanted priority implementation for EHPADs and health institutions, the issue of social and medico-social institutions was addressed. While the Government wished to avoid too large a pay gap between health professionals, it was aware of the need to devote additional time to the scope, which was very broad. Thus, the agreement of 13 July mentioned that specific work should be carried out on the particular situation of the agents you refer to and of the employees of the medical and social establishments and services. To this end, on 16 November, the Prime Minister asked Mr Michel Lafourcade, with me in charge of a mission on the attractiveness of the professions of autonomy in general, to carry out by the end of March the expertise necessary for informed decision-making, with a multi-year implementation starting in 2021. In addition to these elements, it is necessary to specify that employees and employees of social and medical-social institutions will benefit from the re-evaluations of the remuneration scales for paramedics, nurses, health-care workers, and the re-education and medico-technical courses, which have been set up to take better account of the specificities and constraints of these professions. This recast will take place this year, and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u166	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to speak on his question No. 1240 on single-parent families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u167	In France, almost one in four families is single parents. In 30 years, the number of single-parent families has doubled. In 2018, 21% of children live in single-parent families – 18% with their mothers and 3% with their fathers. It is the social category that has been declining the most in years, and exponentially: among the 5.7 million people living in a single parent family, more than a third are considered poor. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, measures have been taken to improve their daily lives and to combat the scandal of unpaid maintenance – I am thinking in particular of the upgrading of 30% of the family support allowance and the supplement to the care for single-parent families and, of course, the reform of the ARIPA – Agency for the collection and intermediation of maintenance payments – with the creation of a public support payment service at the beginning of 2021. Non-payment of maintenance is the main difficulty, but it is not the only one. Thought in the aftermath of the Second World War, our maintenance system is no longer in line with our contemporary society. Support, more specifically called a contribution to the maintenance and education of the child – C3E – is not an income, but a contribution to the costs. Yet, to date, it is considered to be such, taxed for the parent who receives it and compensated by an additional half tax share, and taxed challenges for the parent who pays it. This contribution therefore enters into the parental tax system, with perverse effects, since it can lead to a decline in the income of the custodial parent by increasing the calculation of disposable income and thereby leading to a reduction in social assistance. The inclusion of alimony in tax levies – mainly income tax – on the one hand, and in social benefit scales on the other, thus leads to inconsistencies and breaks in equality between separated parents. This raises more generally the question of the relevance of our social assistance system, which is still largely marked by the promotion of the large family model: many aids are thus increased from the third child, whereas, for an isolated parent, the family allowance takes on its full meaning from the first child. For single-parent families, access to suitable care and decent housing, reconciliation between family and work life, the opportunity to have leisure time or to engage in society are challenges of everyday life, which are particularly difficult to meet. I would therefore like to know what the Government is doing about the change in the tax system of the contribution to the maintenance and education of the child and, more generally, what are the avenues for reflection to facilitate the day-to-day lives of these families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u168	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u169	Mr President, your question concerns the possibility of changing the tax system of the contribution to the maintenance and education of children. This tax system provides that this contribution takes the form of support. As a matter of law, the debtor of the pension can deduct it from his taxable income, if it is actually paid of course, without the residents being taken into account in determining the family quotient, in order not to grant a double advantage, for example, an increase in the quotient and a reduction in the simultaneous taxable income. Such pensions shall be taxable only if they are actually received; This is the consideration for the deduction of maintenance by the debtor parent. In the case of alternating custody, the maintenance burden of the children is assumed to be shared between the parents, and the tax benefits are therefore divided in half between the former spouses. However, if one of the two parents assumes the primary responsibility for the children, the latter being appreciating without taking into account the pensions provided, the parents may by mutual agreement provide that the full tax benefits will be allocated to one of them. In this situation, the other parent can then deduct any maintenance that he or she pays, which is then taxable in the case of the person receiving it. Isolated parents are more often faced with precariousness and have greater difficulties of integration into work and social life. To deal with it, national solidarity is organized. These taxpayers thus benefit, on the one hand, instead of half, from family quotients for the first of them, up to €3704 in 2020. Family benefits increase the median income of these parents by almost 35 per cent. So it's important, but we don't stop there. The implementation of the reform of the public maintenance service is a very important step forward, which makes it possible to secure the payment of these pensions. In addition, the creation of childcare facilities for young children should further improve the effective access of single-parent families to these financially accessible forms of care. Since 2018, these families have benefited from a 30% increase in the amount of the free choice of care supplement and a 40% increase in the resources ceiling. Finally, we give substance to the policy of "going to" those entitled, in order to combat the non-use of the family support allowance, a targeted benefit for single-parent families. The Government was therefore fully mobilized to provide its necessary support to those families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u170	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u171	Madam Minister, thank you for these few elements of the response, particularly important for families that we hear too little, who are surely among the least represented and least present in the public debate, because they are unable to participate in political, trade union or associative life. We understand this, since the days of these mothers – in general – are many. In the coming months and years, beyond the great reform of maintenance that we have defended, we must continue the work and go further in the reform of taxation. Some reflections are under way and work is under way; I hope we can bring them to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u172	Mr Martial Saddier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1246, concerning the Alpes Léman hospital centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u173	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the situation of the Alpes Léman hospital centre – CHAL – built in Contamine-sur-Arve, Haute-Savoie. Construction began in 2009. A public-private partnership procedure was then launched: it consisted of concluding, in full transparency, a hospital emhyteotic lease – BEH – for a period of thirty-one years and eight months, with the agreement of the State and the ARH – regional hospital agency – Rhône Alpes. This lease was concluded within the framework of the 2007 hospital plan, thanks to the support of the State – which I thank –, Mr Philippe Ritter, then director of the ArH Rhône Alpes, and Dr. Jean-Yves Grall, current director of the ARS – regional health agency – Auvergne Rhône Alpes. The hospital was built in a timely manner and scrupulously within the original financial envelope. I want to make it clear, because that wasn't the case for all the BEHs. However, the 2007 hospital plan foresees a decrease in financial aid in 2024, followed by a total shutdown in 2026; rents will continue to be paid, since at the request of the state, we have concluded a BEH until 2043. On the other hand, and also at the request of the ARS and the State, this hospital, which is in a situation of financial equilibrium, has strongly supported two other hospitals – it is a first in France. Under my presidency, the Board of Directors adopted a decision providing for EUR 3 million for the hospital in Sallanches. Recently, Dr. Jean-Yves Grall and I signed a plan to modernize the hospitals in Thonon-les-Bains; CHAL has disbursed 15 million by creating a GCS – health cooperation group. As you know, Madam Minister, this is a first in France: we invented this device together. I do not add the context of the covid-19: the Haute-Savoie was the first department affected and one of the most concerned, both during the first and the second wave. Madam Deputy Minister for Self-Government, can you tell me what measures the Government is planning to take to extend and, above all, to sustain support for health facilities? This aid was provided for in the 2007 hospital plan, which was part of a BEH, in order to ensure its financing. They were to be paid over the entire duration of the emhyteotic lease, as the spirit of the 2007 hospital plan advocated by the Republic, the government and the then Ministry of Health wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u174	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u175	As you point out, MP, the Alpes Léman hospital has concluded an emphyteotic hospital lease as part of the reconstruction of the establishment, for a period of more than thirty years. Since 2004, this investment has been complemented by financial support of almost €6 million per year for a period of 20 years, integrated into the 2007 hospital plan, which is expected to phase out payments between 2024 and 2027. Since the launch of the new hospital in 2012, the establishment has experienced, and we can only welcome, a strong development of its activities, linked to the central positioning of this remarkable equipment in the northern territory of Haute-Savoie. This development contributed to the designation of the CHAL as a support institution of the GHT – hospital group of territory – Léman Mont-Blanc. This dynamic activity makes it possible to display a sound financial situation and to carry the self-financing of the lease beyond the initial estimates. The favourable financial situation seems to make it possible to finance the current investment plans and the extension operations of the establishment, such as the adjustment operation of the technical plateau already launched in view of the continued growth of the activity of the establishment. The collective dynamics within the GHT make it possible to intervene in the financing of projects of other members of this group. For example, the Alpes Léman hospital centre has contributed EUR 15 million to the financing of the complete reconstruction of the hospitalisation capacity of the Léman hospitals in Thonon-les-Bains. The deadline for the end of the 2007 hospital plan aid, which you wanted to alert me to, is well identified at national level. It is closely monitored by the departments of the Ministry and is the subject of a thorough reflection, in order to enable the institutions concerned to anticipate their possible difficulties. Our reflections on the organization of the hospital system and on territorial coordination are fully based on these initiatives, which the department is following with great attention. I'm counting on you to relay them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u176	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u177	Minister, thank you for reminding me of the decisions that led to the construction of the CHAL, which were based on a triptych that brought together the management of the ARH of the time, the management of the establishment and the medical and non-medical personnel. You will allow me to recall also the role of local elected officials. In fact, two large living pools, those of Annemasse and Bonneville, made the courageous decision at the time to close their public hospitals to build a new one on a unique site. I had the chance to chair the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board when the strategic decisions you kindly recalled were made. I also thank you for the second part of your answer: the ministry – this is a form of alert – must now open the debate on 2024 and 2026, even if the financial situation is sound, so that we can anticipate, given the strategic role that CHAL plays in the north of Haute-Savoie, with Thonon-les-Bains and Sallanches. I understand that this is the meaning of your answer, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u178	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor to put her question, No. 1249, on medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u179	The current state of the health, social and economic crisis is second to another pandemic: medical desertification, which continues to progress, especially in the Loiret. At the local level, we are witnessing an unbridled race to create facilities for doctors and health professionals. With a great boost of hundreds of thousands of euros, many of them have been created, with various and varied incentives. We are witnessing an overbidding of offers to attract professionals: office car, accommodation, secretarial services. At the local level, health professionals always organize themselves through professional health communities, with excellent results, as I can see with the Beauce-Gâtinais territorial health community. Some 235 professionals participating in this new organization see it as a way to improve their operating conditions and make care more efficient, by optimizing resources. The Centre Val de Loire region is committed to the wage of 150 doctors. Looking closely, of the first three doctors recruited by the region, one was already employed in a community of communes and the other two came from the liberal sector. By stripping the liberal sector, the net result is negative: it takes two salaried doctors to complete a work time equivalent to that of a liberal doctor. As our fellow citizens see every day, health policy boils down to injecting millions of euros and managing the shortage. The real problems are never addressed or left under the carpet, with a trompe-l'oeil suppression of the numerus clausus and insufficient means provided to professional health training. Territorial difficulties persist, as we experience in the Centre region, where the Regional University Hospital Centre in Tours does not sufficiently encourage the information and installation of young doctors outside Indre-et-Loire and where it is impossible to equip the Regional Hospital Centre in Orléans with the university vocation. Preparing for the future cannot be limited to producing financial investments. Human investment is essential to provide people with health security worthy of the twenty-first century. While keeping our seniors at home has become a priority, what can I do to meet the many demands of people who are often elderly, isolated in rural areas, who no longer have a doctor, and who do not have control over new technologies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u180	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u181	The issue of medical demography is a constant concern of the Ministry; It also concerns my territory. It has also been, you will agree, a matter of concern for successive governments that have not always found a solution, even though each one has brought its own stone to the building in an attempt to respond to it. As you know, the number of general practitioners or direct access specialists, practising as a Liberal, has been declining steadily since 2010, a decline that is likely to continue until 2025. No territory is spared, but the disparities are deep. The Government has made this issue a priority, by very quickly proposing a panel of solutions adaptable to each local context, as the response to demographic tensions is not unique and needs to be localized. We have chosen to trust the actors in the territories to develop projects and innovate within the framework of territorial responsibility. This strategy seems to be slowly bearing fruit and is beginning to move things forward. The dynamics around CPTS – the territorial health professional communities – is a rather enlightening and very concrete example of the innovative capacity of professionals in access to care. Through this system, health professionals in the same territory are encouraged to organize themselves to meet the needs. It is a major tool to ensure access to appointment-free consultations and to improve care routes more broadly. The crisis of the covid-19 has revealed a certain capacity to mobilize these actors in an emergency, in a given territory, to organize a care. I understand your impatience and believe me, I share it; I am called every day by elected officials of my territory on this matter. As we have already had the opportunity to stress in the Chamber, several measures that we have introduced cannot have an immediate effect, because of their structuring nature – I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the numerus clausus. That is why we have taken additional measures with a rapid maturity: the creation of 4000 posts of medical assistants to assist doctors in their tasks; the deployment of 600 general practitioners in priority territories, of which 200 in rural territories, in exercise shared between hospital and outpatient structures, and even wage earners for some – as you mentioned, in fact, wage earners is no longer a big word in the medical community. Finally, teleconsultation is a major tool, which provides an immediate response to the health needs of our citizens. It is therefore by working together and supporting territorial initiatives that we will be able to improve the situation, particularly in the territories to which you refer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u182	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u183	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your answer. The CPTS are indeed a good tool, but if the one of Beauce Gâtinais, of which I mentioned earlier, federates 235 members, none of them is new, because all are actually present for some time already. You also talk about telemedicine, but a doctor is a man – or a woman – of trust, to whom you can entrust personal or even intimate things, while a screen or camera are rather barriers. We, who are elected from the field, are destitute in the face of the appeals and despair of our fellow citizens who no longer have a doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u184	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to put his question, No. 1250, on strategies to combat the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u185	My question is about the containment and curfew strategies used in the fight against the covid -19 epidemic. The increase in the number of cases and hospitalizations obliges you to consider a third confinement, the form of which, once again, will be decided by the Defence Council, without any consultation or parliamentary validation, in disregard of national representation. A real denial of democracy! However, if one refers to your management of masks, of "test, trace, isolate", of the preparation of the health system or, recently, of vaccination, the Member I am can only legitimately question the form that this third confinement will take. Will it be a total confinement, like last March? Will it be a confinement with closure of non-essential shops but opening of schools, as last November? Will confinement be limited to weekends? Will you decide to extend the school holidays by two weeks? Another solution – and that is what I would like to say – would be to adopt a differentiated containment according to the territories and categories of people, depending on their vulnerability to the virus. The containment measures you have taken so far target, and discriminate against, certain categories of people, whose professional sector, in your opinion, plays a major role in the spread of the epidemic. In Marseille, a city of which I am elected, I measure every day the suffering of coffee makers, restaurants, hoteliers, traders, professionals in culture and sport, as well as students who are deprived of social life. However, according to figures from Public Health France, the median age of covid-19 victims is 85 years, one year more than the median age of death in France. At the same time, in the age group 15 to 44 years, there have been 60 patients who have died without co-morbidities since the outbreak began. In comparison, in the same period of time, 10,000 cardiac arrest and 20,000 strokes – stroke – occurred in the same age group. In this context, Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to know your position on the application of differentiated and territorialized containment measures, like the vaccination strategy, depending on the vulnerability of people to the virus, in order to better protect them, rather than according to sectors of economic activity, some of which have already been hit too hard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u186	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u187	I hope, Mr President, that we share the will to get out of this health crisis. We have, of course, not the purposes you describe. Your question highlights real territorial disparities: at a given moment, two departments encounter different situations. However, there is no break in travel and the virus travels. While the incidence rate remains higher in the eastern half of France, it is increasing more rapidly in the western half, notably in the Sarthe, Indre, Dordogne, the English Channel and the Occitanie region. The number of hospitalizations due to covid -19 has also increased over the past 10 days, reaching more than 1500 admissions per day. The emergence of variant strains makes our task more complex: on 25 January, 269 cases were attributed to the two particularly virulent strains identified in the United Kingdom and South Africa. These figures are all the more worrying because they are necessarily underestimated: since they are new strains, the adapted RT-PCR – reverse transcriptase-chain reaction by polymerase – kits could only be developed and deployed recently. However, according to the health authorities, these variant strains are likely to become majority in less than a month. It is therefore necessary to find the most appropriate and measured means to curb their development as quickly as possible throughout the national territory. We have already significantly increased our sequencing capabilities, deployed adapted PCR kits and reinforced the so-called "tracing" measures, as well as isolation, thanks to the interventions of nurses at home. However, I repeat, we will be able to stem this epidemic only through collective resilience and, of course, the application of the barriers on a daily basis. The solution is certainly not to oppose one another the French, the departments, or the regions. You even put the age brackets against each other. The health of the French has no price; We will continue our action with measure, maintaining consultation with prefects and RHAs – regional health agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u188	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u189	Thank you for your answer. Of course, we share your desire to protect our fellow citizens as best as possible, but also to preserve the sectors of economic activity, which are very hard hit. I would like to respond to your answer, stressing that the proposal for a containment that takes into account the vulnerability of people aims to better protect the most fragile, to relieve the burden of resuscitation services, which are affected by these categories of patients, and certainly does not aim at opposing citizens to each other. It is a way of protecting them better, as well as of avoiding opposition, which is nevertheless established between our fellow citizens who have the right to work and those who no longer have the right to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u190	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No. 1255, on midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u191	Women's health is a real challenge, far beyond the support of pregnancy and childbirth. In France, the field of competence of midwives is very broad: they provide care for mothers and newborns, practice abortions, prescribe and diagnose. In the context of a shortage of gynaecologists, they provide women with the necessary support and unquestionable expertise. Yet, the Ségur de la santé was another missed opportunity to see their skills recognized and valued. With regard to their status, midwives are regarded by the Public Health Code as belonging to a medical profession, but are administratively treated as non-medical professions within hospitals. It is therefore necessary to grant them the status of hospital practitioner, which would not only guarantee their independence and professional autonomy, but also tend to have the specific skills of this essential profession recognized. In addition, you are aware of the benefits that would accrue from the granting of such a status, in terms of the organization of working time, the next step of remuneration, and in particular professional development. I also want to ask you about the status of midwives, whom I met in my constituency and who told you about their difficulties. The level of gratuity during their internship is still too often lower than the legal minimum of 3.90 euros per hour, which is unacceptable. At a time when students in our country are increasingly affected by precariousness, how can we understand that their monthly remuneration, which has been revised on the occasion of the Ségur de la santé, is still so low? The acquisition of materials and working clothes is still the responsibility of students in a majority of institutions; In addition, some regions charge them additional fees, particularly for enrolment in the library, while they do not receive all the assistance from the CROUS – regional centres for academic and academic works. What about their access to the public service contract? It would allow them to settle in underprivileged areas and participate in the fight against medical deserts. The equivalence of diplomas with health-care workers and child-care workers or the creation of a dual-member status would allow them to engage in clinical activity in addition to their studies. I stop there for lack of time, but the list is long, and I ask you, Madam Minister, to give them encouraging prospects, in a very difficult context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u192	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u193	Thank you for your question, which provides us with an opportunity to pay tribute to all midwives for the crucial role they played during the health crisis, by continuing to carry out their essential mission. The Government recognizes their commitment. Professionals in the hospital public service will benefit from the salary increases provided by the Ségur de la santé. Index revalorizations will lead to reflection on the evolution of the midwifery advancement grid. For the sake of dialogue, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health will open discussions on this subject; a working group will meet at the end of the first half of 2021. This work will only contribute to a better recognition of the profession of midwives as a medical profession of the hospital. However, in addition to the measures of upgrading, the Ministry uses strong acts in favour of the professional practice of midwives. The reform of the decrees authorizing obstetric activity will further advance the quality of care. The 1000-day course, which has been the subject of several announcements by Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Children and Families, will lead to an increase in the number of midwives and their role, in order to better identify the difficulties of families and orient parents according to their needs. The Social Security Financing Act for 2021, as you know, allows the development of previously experimental birth homes, and aims to sustain them. These homes allow midwives who wish to practice independently to find a suitable setting for personalized pregnancy monitoring and for less medicalized deliveries. The maternity commitment, announced in 2019, will include measures for midwives, such as the renovation of perinatal community centres, which will provide the conditions for a strengthened exercise, in better equipped structures, for expanded missions. Mrs Stéphanie Rist's proposal for a law aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification has also led to the development of the midwifery profession in many fields, such as the prescription of work stoppages or the detection and treatment of sexually transmitted infections. The Government was therefore fully committed to enhancing the role of midwives and their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u194	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u195	My question also concerned midwives, who are in very precarious educational conditions. In addition, there is a legal gap in the regulation as to the possibility for them to exercise in gynaecology or paediatric services, and the January 2016 decree still does not offer them the necessary equivalence. This point of my question is of particular importance to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u196	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor to put his question, No. 1259, on the capacity of the French health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u197	Between 2003 and 2017, 69000 hospital beds were closed in our country. Unfortunately, this trend continued under your government, as in 2018, 4000 beds were closed, and 3400 in 2019. We are facing the most serious health crisis in a long time; For a time, many hospitalizations had to be postponed at least. Thus, a priori coherently, the Minister of Health had declared on November 18 last that he wanted to get out "totally of the dogma of the reduction of beds... when there are transformations of hospital projects. It was common sense, but unfortunately it was only an announcement effect. All hospital practitioners and elected officials find that the administrative – or political – machine, since the minister and your government endorse it, continues to consolidate hospital services and close beds. That's the reality! I would like to mention a few examples. In Essonne, in my department, the eventual removal of the three structures of Longjumeau, Juvisy and Orsay in favour of a new establishment in Saclay will make disappear nearly 600 beds; This fall, you've already closed beds in Juvisy, which is dedicated to patients with covid-19. That's the reality! On Friday, again, when I received the unions of the intermunicipal hospital in Villeneuve-Saint-Georges, I learned that a new project had just fallen, which caused the consternation in the hospital: the hospital service in psychiatry will be abolished, that is to say twenty-four beds, which will be supposedly grouped in Villejuif – but, in Villejuif, the beds are full and the psychiatry can no longer accommodate the patients. In this period of confinement, where problems develop, you close, through the regional health agency – ARS – of Île-de-France, twenty-four beds in Villeneuve-Saint-Georges. In Limeil-Brévannes, in Val-de-Marne, another 150 beds will be removed following the reconstruction of the Emile Roux geriatric hospital. The new hospital in Saint-Ouen, which will bring together the hospitals Bichat and Beaujon, will lose 26% of the current capacity, i.e. 200 beds – the machine is running. In Nantes, 100 beds were removed, in the midst of a health crisis. In Reims, 184 CHU beds will be removed by 2027. In Nice, 200 beds should be abolished if the contract for the return to financial balance adopted by the CHU management is to be adhered to. In Marseille, 230 beds are expected to disappear, according to the budget balance plan adopted in 2019 and which has not been officially challenged. At the CHU de Nancy – this is controversial – the project provides 174 beds and 598 fewer posts; You suspended him, but Nancy's practitioners learned to steal that he was still in the boxes. So no one understands your policy anymore. It cannot simply be said that this is the fault of the RHAs, because RHAs are commissioned by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. By hearing the President of the Republic announce, in his speech of 28 October, delivered just before the second confinement, that he planned for mid-November 9,000 patients in resuscitation, it was expected that the Government would increase the number of resuscitation beds. It's not easy, but for a year now, gradually, you could have at least reopened certain establishments, including the Val-de-Grâce hospital. I ask that it be reopened: we can do it in three weeks, but you don't:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u198	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u199	... on the one hand, you say you care for people; on the other, you keep closing beds. Not long ago, the Prime Minister officially explained to us – you can find his statements – that there were 5000 resuscitation beds in France. Either the President of the Republic had a hallucination, or he was given bad figures. Actually, it's just lies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u200	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u201	... especially to hospital staff who work hard, who live in hell and to whom you make promises that you do not keep. Either the SRAs tell anything, or the closures, including a dream. But they do exist! Come and see Juvisy – I invite you, Madam Deputy Minister: the beds have been closed, as in Nantes. Another assumption is that you don't know what's going on in your administration. The anger of caregivers, their discouragement, is linked to this double permanent discourse. On the one hand, you communicate to make believe that the French will be well cared for. On the other hand, the compressor roller of your administration continues, with your agreement, to plan the closure of the beds, continues the consolidations and, worse, uses the closure of the psychiatry beds to conceal their reduction, since all of France is experiencing a reduction in the number of beds in this specialty. At a time when our compatriots are facing enormous psychological difficulties linked to your ineffective policy in the fight against covid, it is still terrible to close the beds of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u202	Thank you, dear colleague, for giving the minister 30 seconds to answer you! The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u203	I don't have much time to answer you. For my part, and unlike you, I commend our health care system, which has resisted and proved its worth. Far from the accounting that you are singing at the moment, I would like to point out that the Government has set up a National Health Investment Council, which will be operational in the coming weeks, to review all the dogmas and doctrines that you refer to in the area of hospital management, particularly with regard to beds. So you can see that we are at work, far from being asleep or hypnotized by our services. We opened 4000 beds on demand to cope with peaks of activity. We also train professionals massively in resuscitation gestures. We opened 1,300 nursing training places in a very short period of time. We adapt to the crisis, you see. I have very little time to answer you, and I do not think that you are very interested in my answer, since you have already tried us and believe that everything we answer is a lie. I will therefore go no further than to say that we are working very hard on hospital-related issues. I imagine you are aware of what we have decided with the Ségur de la santé, of what we are trying to bring to the caregivers who are at the front in this health crisis. Far from polemics, I say to you: we are at work to strengthen the French health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u204	Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor to put her question, No. 1258, on the food check.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u205	Access to healthy and sustainable food for all must be a right; Now it's a privilege. Living from work when you are a farmer is a right; Today, however, this is often an exception. Living in a non-polluted and living environment is also a right, but today it is a fight. The success of these three objectives is, moreover, the bedrock of a successful rural policy. Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to draw your attention to the need for the creation of a "well eating" food check for the benefit of French and French people, a cheque oriented towards sustainable production, for added value for producers. Our diet is the cornerstone of our individual health building and the choices we make have an impact on the community: chronic human diseases associated with inadequate nutrition cost at least 27 billion euros, not to mention childhood obesity. The most modest people are the first victims. Food is at the heart of the One Health approach, or One Health – Human, Animal and Environmental – which is the subject of a concerted international approach. In December 2020, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, announced the creation of a kind of IPCC – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change –, the One-Health High Council. My colleague Loïc Dombreval and I are, in this respect, at the origin of a motion for a resolution from the National Assembly. In addition, this approach is at the heart of the fourth national health environment plan, implemented by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and presented on 22 October 2020. Finally, your ministry's National Food and Nutrition Programme complements this government mechanism. In 2021, our assembly will consider the bill to combat climate change and build resilience to its effects. This bill transcribes some of the demands of the civic climate convention, including the creation of a food check. At the end of 2020, the President of the Republic stated that he would accede to this request, stating that the maintenance check was a good thing and that it was necessary to do so. However, while the interdepartmental effort for an approach A single health of our diet exists and is welcomed, the tool that will make the food voucher concrete for all French people is not yet offered. Yet, the actors in the agricultural sector are in need of further efforts to encourage the transition to a more valued and beneficial scientific agroecology for global health. However, the citizens' convention for the climate shows the urgency of a comprehensive approach to protection, particularly with regard to concrete achievements for the daily lives of the French. Finally, however, since the harmful effects of a diet harmful to the health of our fellow citizens weigh on the community and weigh individually on the most modest, there is an urgent need to introduce the food check. The implementation of this cheque, which, through its cross-cutting position, affects both the agricultural and global health issues, would enable the Government to demonstrate that a comprehensive approach is beneficial to all – to the social cohesion of rural areas as well as to the incomes of farmers, with food spending on some to encourage the transition of others. I therefore ask you, Minister, about the first experiments and measures that could be introduced with a view to the creation of the food check "well to eat", because eating well is also a matter of culture, conviviality and pleasure for the French, which is essential. No help or charity: we want a law, a right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u206	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u207	Madam Member, you have raised a number of points in your question. I'm not going back to the first one of them, dealing with the approach. One health or One Health: I believe a lot, as you know, since we have already exchanged on this subject. What we are experiencing right now shows how closely humans, animals and plants are intrinsically linked in terms of health. In this regard, I welcome the work of my predecessors. Perhaps you have noticed that one of them, Stéphane Le Foll, has been appointed to lead the "4 for 1000" initiative. I very much believe in this initiative. The second question concerns the food check. You know my commitment to this, an attachment that is long-standing, since we have been working on it for several months. I am convinced that there is social and food inequality in our country, and that we must take strong action against it. A number of these have already been taken under the Recovery Plan, which provides for EUR 80 million for territorial food projects, EUR 50 million for food quality in canteens, which are essential in that they are the first place to combat social food inequality, and EUR 30 million to support social initiatives in this area. I am very eager to go even further, through this food check. The Government is working hard to establish it. I know that this is also the case with parliamentarians and that there are exchanges with my teams in this regard. I am also thinking of the work carried out in this area by Mounir Mahjoubi, with whom I recently exchanged views. So we are really on the job to be able to define the food check as quickly as possible. I will quickly mention several convictions. In my view, we must have an approach that is not only environmental, but also nutritional: this is where the opportunity for the food check lies. Moreover, beyond an environmental approach, it is a nutritional approach that needs to be adopted, that is, to measure the impact of food on health and to combat this social inequality. Secondly, we need to define the parameters: who benefits, for which product and in which place of distribution? This work is under way. We will, of course, continue to discuss this point, which will allow us to define the financial arrangements. In fact, in the end, the food check will in fact be a financial mechanism: it does not need to be defined by a law, but simply results from a government decision. On the other hand, it is the finance law that will have to allocate the necessary appropriations for its financing. The Government is fully engaged. My aim is to introduce the food check as quickly as possible, even though some issues are sometimes complicated, like the three I have just mentioned, especially with regard to the physical implementation of this cheque. My commitment to working with the parliamentarians of the various groups on this subject is complete: I believe a lot in this mechanism, which is endorsed by the citizens' convention for the climate and by others. The fight against food social inequality is a personal struggle, which I have been leading for a long time: when I was a deputy minister in charge of the city and housing, I have already worked a great deal on this subject. This is one of the challenges that I intend to bring to the head of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, particularly through the food check.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u208	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1135.u209	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Draft law authorising the approval of Council Decision 2020/2053 on the system of the European Union's own resources; Proposal for a law to strengthen the fight against animal abuse. The meeting is adjourned.
