ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to the external action of the State (No 4524, Annexes 1 and 2 ; No 4526, Volumes I and II, No 4527, Volume I). Mr Vincent Ledoux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u3	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, I will not dwell on the budget that you are presenting to us: it increases by EUR 50 million compared to the finance law for 2021, but actually provides for more than double the resources, compared to the trend, for new measures. This is a good budget, not because it increases – however, this increase was absolutely necessary in order to maintain the quality of our diplomatic network – but because it allows us to continue the coherent approach of modernizing and opening the Quai d'Orsay that you have undertaken since the beginning of the legislature. This approach is the prism through which I have examined this last fiscal year, of which I have retained some salient features in order to show that, far from the image we can have of it, our diplomacy is reforming and opening up, not only to the world, but also to French society. This is one of the lessons I have learned over the past five years, which have allowed me to discover, in my personal capacity, the Quai d'Orsay and the women and men who operate our diplomacy. This approach of openness to society needs to be further deepened: our fellow citizens are too unaware of the link between diplomatic and consular action and their daily lives. If it materialized in a very concrete and effective way during the health crisis for those who have been repatriated or vaccinated abroad, this link, though very real, is less obvious for our compatriots who live on French territory. Thus, in the cultural field, it would be very useful for the French to be more aware of the projects carried out by French institutes abroad. For my part, during this parliamentary term, I measured the honour and happiness that I had to act as Special Rapporteur on the State's External Action Mission and to be able to discover, through the preparation of my report, a house that I could never have known as a mere citizen. It's a privilege I took out of the election. Today it is my duty to turn to our fellow citizens to present them with this beautiful house, the Quai d'Orsay. One of the characteristics of this proposed mission budget for 2022 is the priority given to human resources, which are the first asset of our diplomacy. As you pointed out, minister, we were at the bone in terms of numbers. I therefore welcome the interruption, decided last year and confirmed this year, of the salary reduction path envisaged under the Public Action 2022 transformation programme. The Quai d'Orsay will still have met 80% of its target and achieved significant efficiency gains. The first point I want to stress is that the slight increase in the employment ceiling is intended to double the number of apprentices recruited at the Quai d'Orsay. Beyond a common goal for all administrations, this increase reflects the Ministry's desire to look at youth and to diversify the profiles recruited. It is also the meaning of the Summer Diplomatic Academy, which makes it possible to introduce the missions and trades of diplomacy to high school students that their family environment does not predispose to the diplomatic career. This initiative is very interesting: I insist on the need to maintain the links with young people who have passed through this academy, even if they do not express an interest in the diplomatic professions from the outset, of which we will never repeat enough that they are very diverse. I link this openness to society and youth with the need to strengthen – to muscle! – the territorialization of diplomacy. The presence of diplomats to the prefects, through diplomatic advisers to the regional prefects, contributes to the dissemination of diplomatic issues in the daily life that I call for. It would be beneficial to involve local executive bodies more closely. In line with this approach of openness and with the reform of the senior management of the State, the year 2022 will see the creation of a diplomatic and consular school in order to better professionalise the courses at all stages of the career. The establishment of this school is part of a comprehensive reform of human resources, of which I welcome the concern for equity between the different categories of agents. This concern for equity not only irritates wage, training or social housing measures, it must also be taken into account in the digitisation strategy of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. As in many jurisdictions and businesses, the pandemic has resulted in forced digitization of services, which has weakened working collectives. In the new remote operating practices that are anchored in daily life by means of audio and video communications security tools, let us ensure that certain categories of personnel – including local law officers and category C – do not feel excluded because they do not have the same remote working opportunities as others. This process must also take into account the security requirements inherent in diplomatic activity, which involve significant investments. Faced with the proliferation and violence of the campaigns of denigration and disinformation against France, I welcome the Ministry's willingness to review its modes of communication to include more closely, in its strategy, the relays of the civil societies of the countries concerned and the diasporas. With human resources and digitisation, the maintenance of real estate assets is another strong focus of this budget proposal. The effort made is essential and must be sustained. Finally, with regard to cultural diplomacy and influence, I note a new effort by France with regard to its voluntary contributions to international organizations. These will strengthen the voice of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u4	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u5	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM Group and on the panels of the commissions]] Finally, I hope that the next parliamentary term will be a continuation of the budget proposed today for the external action mission of the State, which the Committee on Finance has adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u6	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u7	While global tourism figures continue to be impressive, the sector's losses during the crisis amount to almost $400 billion. In France, the figures for the summer of 2021 point to the beginnings of an exit from the crisis: €10.6 billion in revenue was generated, however 30% lower than in the summer of 2019, but 25% higher than in 2020. In other European countries, revenues are increasing, but to a lesser extent than in France: – 53% for Spain and Italy compared to 2019. In any event, the summer of 2021 was marked by a relatively positive trend for European tourism. Note that the crisis has made it possible to attract more tourists to France from neighbouring countries. As a result, the revenue generated by the Dutch is up by 30%. The Germans and Belgians also came more massively to visit our territory. We must continue to invest in loyalty to tourists from these countries. These results, although generally encouraging, remain fragile and very disparate depending on the tourism sectors and the level of dependence of certain destinations on foreign customers. The tourist situation of the Paris and Île-de-France companies remains very degraded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u8	She's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u9	The lack of return of Asian and North American customers, with strong purchasing power, is leading the capital. The first six months of the year 2021 were very difficult as tourist traffic in Paris fell by 78% compared to 2019. We are therefore facing a long-term crisis. What concrete measures have you planned, Minister, to stop this trend? I call your attention to the urgency of investing in a policy of promoting our country more ambitious than ever. Competitive destinations are currently positioning themselves on our issuer markets in an offensive manner. However, the post-crisis budget allocated to the operator Atout France for 2022 is absolutely not up to the recovery. Atout France will spend only €6 million to promote our tourism industry next year, which is very low. Greece, for its part, committed a budget of 27 million over the year to support actors in this sector. For winter tourism, France has allocated a promotional budget of 2 million, while our first competitor, Austria, spends 17 million. I therefore propose, for 2022, to increase the budget allocated for the promotion of our tourism industry by 20 million. This investment is limited, but it would have a direct and massive leverage effect on recovery. Still with a view to encouraging the return of distant clienteles to our country, can you, Minister, enlighten the national representation on the health negotiations with countries whose vaccines are not approved by the European authorities – I am thinking in particular of Russia – or which continue to restrict the movement of their nationals abroad, such as China. What about Japanese tourists? A major risk also weighs on our first foreign customer, the British customer. The health crisis, Brexit, the return of passports and delicate diplomatic relations are likely to permanently weaken the arrival of this historical clientele in France. His attendance dropped this summer in an unusual way. What is your strategy for this clientele? I would also like to point out that a central sector of the tourist economy has not yet fully recovered. This is business and event tourism, essential to the urban tourism ecosystem. In Île-de-France and Paris, the revival of this sector could compensate for the loss of foreign tourists. The creation of a 70 million fund, co-dominated by the regions, would be a response to our ambitions for this sector. Such an amount does not seem aberrant to resist the offensive of Italy and Germany, which aspire the entire market. Finally, a clear speech at the highest state summit is essential for reviving the mountain sector and winter tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u11	At the end of November 2020, the President of the Republic himself announced on television that winter sports stations would not open. There is an urgent need for him to announce that they will open this winter. Indeed, the number of reservations is far below what it should be to date. The trauma of the day-to-day closure imposed in mid-March 2020 and throughout the winter of 2020-2021 has reduced the confidence of our fellow citizens in the reliability of station bookings. The paradox is that reservations abroad explode for this Christmas, with Austria and Italy officially announcing the opening of their ski resorts at the beginning of September, which encouraged reservations. Minister, the French winter tourism industry needs you: it asks you to announce clearly and quickly the opening of winter sports stations! As for the budget allocated to tourism policy in the 2022 finance bill, it is difficult for me to comment on it because the Government has not announced the content or the amount of the plan for the recovery and transformation of tourism which will be presented in November. This initiative is certainly positive and I welcome it, but how will this plan be funded? It should probably be implemented by 2022, but on what mission and for what amount? Because of these uncertainties and a budget allocated to the promotion of our tourism industry which is insufficient in view of the challenges of the recovery, I will unfortunately not be able to give a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations allocated to this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u12	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u13	I call Mr Robert Therry, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u14	I have the honour to present to you the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the appropriations allocated to tourism in the external action mission of the State. While tourism is a sector of activity essential to the French economy, it suffers the full consequences of the health crisis. By 2020, the level of world tourism had returned to its 1990 level. In France, in the same year, the number of foreign tourists fell by 55% and the outlook for 2021, although slightly better, will not make it possible to fill the shortfall for the players in the sector. While the State has provided for support measures, this could be improved and clarified. The crisis must also be seen as an opportunity for the tourism sector to transform itself in the face of the changing expectations of tourists and the inevitable reinvention of supply in the crisis. To illustrate this renewal, I chose to favour two topics in my report for opinion: tourist residences, on the one hand; Heritage tourism, on the other hand. I propose, first of all, a quick presentation of the budget appropriations analysed in the context of my report. The gradual disappearance of tourism appropriations within the Economy mission is regrettable given the importance of this sector in the national GDP. For the rest, the bulk of the State's external action budget for tourism is intended to finance the subsidy for public service charges (SCSP) paid to Atout France, a State operator in the field of tourism promotion. This grant is broadly stable compared to the initial finance law (LFI) of 2021: it stands at €28.7 million. Atout France has made significant efforts to support the actors in the tourism sector and to promote France's destination during the health crisis. Maintaining the level of its grant is therefore a minimum effort, especially since some of the operator's other revenue, such as visa fees, remains fragile. I shall therefore make a rather unfavourable opinion on the appropriations allocated to tourism for the external action mission of the State, while pointing out that the Committee on Economic Affairs has voted in favour of their adoption. Let us turn to the first thematic part of my budget opinion, which deals with tourist residences. 85% owned by private owners, accommodation in tourist residence has so far been a fairly secure financial investment. The financial model of such property is based on a mandatory lease period, with the manager of the tourist residence responsible for paying the rent due to the owner. Unfortunately, the crisis of the covid-19 led to major difficulties: because of the lack of tourists, managers could no longer pay rents to the owners, who also found themselves in financial difficulty. This has led to significant tensions between landlords and managers, and the situation has not yet been resolved. One point, however, is unanimous: there is a real lack of prior information on the risks associated with this type of investment. A reform project would be under consideration on the subject: I hope that it will be possible. The second thematic part of my opinion is devoted to heritage tourism, which is of particular interest to me. The crisis of the covid-19 changed the expectations of tourists, with the public more valuing less frequented places. This is an opportunity to highlight little-known and innovative models. The Chartreuse de Neuville, located in the Pas-de-Calais, is one of these places. This building being restored presents an original funding model, based on the co-existence, on its site, of lucrative and non-profit activities. In addition to traditional tourist activities and a hotel residence project, there are incubators, job integration projects and residences of artists and researchers. Such diversity makes this building a living place, while ensuring its restoration. I hope that such initiatives can be valued. Associated supports must also be promoted and streamlined. Financing offered by BPIFrance or the Bank of the Territories, for example, is often not well known to potential beneficiaries. I am convinced that more communication and cross-cutting approaches, as well as support for innovative economic models, are essential elements of a successful tourism policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u15	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs:
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u16	For more than 20 years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was put on a diet. Consulates have been closed and the format of some embassies has been revised; Some of the staff had been abolished and those who had escaped that fate had sometimes been transformed into local law officers. Finally, many properties were sold. Perhaps these efforts were partly necessary. After all, each ministry has been involved in the debt relief of the State; Why would the Quai d'Orsay have been exempted? Here and there, the life course was not always fully in line with the expectations of our fellow citizens. But today, when we look at the state of the ministry, we feel that we have gone far too far. In ten years, the Quai d'Orsay has lost 12% of its workforce;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u18	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u19	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u20	... in ten years, almost a quarter of the wealth abroad has been sold and what remains is sometimes sad to see. However, necessary investments in digital or security have been postponed. As a result of such austerity, a lasting weakening is not to be excluded. When it comes to defending its budget, the Quai d'Orsay has a big disadvantage: its action is not visible at first, our diplomats working in the shadows, often far from their country; It would be tempting not to recognize the usefulness of their work. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has the tenacious image of a privileged ministry. It is difficult to make it clear that diplomacy needs a certain fascist, and that this fascist is by no means a privilege for personnel to whom much effort is required. The health crisis will at least have allowed some of these perceptions to change. From the beginning of the pandemic, Quai staff responded to the emergency by helping nearly 370,000 French to return to our country. A wide range of assistance has been provided to the French abroad: medical support, social assistance, school scholarships and, more recently, a vaccination campaign. The Quai d'Orsay then appeared for what it really is: a real public service ministry. The proliferation of international crises has also undoubtedly contributed to such an awareness, for example in the context of the evacuation operation from Afghanistan, or when, from Turkey to Belarus, our ambassadors defend France's values. Partly thanks to these crises, we perceive the benefits of a beginning to change the image of the Quai d'Orsay. The budget for 2021 had put an end to the hemorrhaging of the workforce for the first time in twenty years: it was expected and hoped by all. The budget for 2022, whether seen as a budget of consolidation, rebound or renaissance, has a more restorative ambition. He wants, among other things, to repair three great frailties of the ministry. The first is digital. With increased funding, tomorrow's consulate is taking shape. The civil status and visa application are dematerialised, Internet voting is experienced and a consular reception platform is being created, all for the benefit of users and staff – the latter will be able to focus on what they know best: relations with our citizens. But the Ministry's digital ambition far exceeds consular action and the new multi-year digital strategy will have cascade effects on all of its services. The second, perhaps the most important, issue concerns staffing. For the second year in a row, no decline is planned. Public Action 2022 is no longer; Now we have to see the rebound. A wide-ranging reform of human resources is also under way: remuneration will be harmonized, the ministry will be more open to the outside world and information will be improved. The third and final subject, and not least, is real estate, which has received wide attention on all the benches of our assembly. A catch-up plan is gaining power thanks to the new means devoted to it. Dozens of operations are under way, both in France and abroad, to restore pride to the ministry – that's what you said, minister, in committee. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applauds]] Digital, actual, real estate: the success of these yards is subject to one and the same condition, the concern for the long term, and I am pleased that this is the direction taken since last year. It is to be hoped that such a course will be maintained in the coming years and in the coming legislatures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u21	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u22	Cultural diplomacy and influence is getting a little better, and not just, Minister, with an additional $15 million in 185, out of a total of about $700 million. Here I would like to express my satisfaction with its evolution, particularly with regard to its guidance and coherence, because you know that this subject has been at the heart of my reports for the past four years. Three years ago, I told that desk that we were not dealing with the shortage; In committee, I used the following image: there is no point in putting gasoline back in a car if the piston is not in front of the cylinder.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u23	Especially with decarbonation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u24	Before providing new funding, it is important to ensure that the program is managed consistently. Cultural and influential diplomacy has made progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u25	It's better than if it were worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u26	Today, we work in networks; We've all seen him in the field. The French Institute now has a "network" centre: I expected such a reform, which is now effective. The ambassadors – as you said, Minister, in your speech to the ambassadors in 2019 – are actually working as conductors in charge of playing virtuosos, as generalists speaking to specialists, and even our operators, even if the resistance in this area is known, are working loosely: they understood that they had to open up. In 2017, I visited Lebanon, a crossroads of our cultural influence. I have returned this year and if France – I say France, not the ministry or the embassy – is still present in this country, marked by two years of political and social crisis and then devastated by a disaster, it is thanks to this décompartement. When the diplomatic service in Lebanon talks to me about educational diplomacy, it certainly tells me about the 54 accredited institutions that are there, but also, more broadly, about the 300 French-speaking schools that the country counts, and it is to them that we are going to meet. When I talk to Lebanese artists, they don't tell me about the last festival that took place at the French Institute: they tell me about this extraordinary and very inexpensive device called NAFAS, "breathing" in Arabic, through which France allowed 100 Lebanese artists to breathe in France, in residence. When I hear the French Institute of the Near East (IFPO), our citadel of scientific and archaeological diplomacy, it is not only its twenty employees that I find around me: I see people on the ground, who are working to rebuild the port of Beirut with Lebanese architects, or who are studying the sociological, heritage and environmental impact of this reconstruction. France, all of France, is well present in Lebanon, including our international volunteers – I have met these young people who are committed – and the Embassy's services are the facilitators of this presence: they give the necessary impetus, far beyond the strict management of their own budget. We are moving forward, minister, but not everything is perfect. I have made some recommendations and I would like to recall some of them. We need to make a step point from a "retex", a feedback, about two devices. On-the-spot recruitment contracts (SPRs), first of all, have long been seen as a way of spending less – as was recalled earlier; I think it makes sense to use it, given our activities, because we cannot have seconded officials everywhere. But we need on-site recruitment contracts that have visibility, because it is not normal for a publisher's manager to renew his contract every few months; It makes sense for her to be in the CRSP, but she must be able to project herself. The Solidarity Fund for Innovative Projects (FSPI), then, is popular. Bravo for this tool, which is two or three years old. We must now see how we are going to put these funds in time, so that they can be linked to the common law. I think, minister, we need to better coordinate our scientific diplomacy. We have some beautiful tools, in particular the Commission des découvertes and the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS). I made a contribution to this in the research programming law for the years 2021 to 2030: I think that we are missing a coordination tool. I am also thinking of the AEFE – Agency for the Teaching of French Abroad – of course. You know my proposals about him: you have to renovate his development management and withdraw the position of Director of the AEFE from the ambassadors' movement, so that he can be recruited on a project basis for five years; There is also a need to create an institution management committee within the agency that is directly governed. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Such observations seem to me to be shared and you have promised us, Mr.Minister, a road map dedicated to influential diplomacy, which will have the task of creating the coherence that we call for. I believe that we are moving in the right direction and that this budget attests to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u27	We turn to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u28	Minister, you have reason to be satisfied: you stopped the bleeding. But we Communist parliamentarians cannot be satisfied with this situation. With the international health crisis and the terrible devastation caused by the covid-19 to the economies or economic and social systems of the most fragile countries, as well as the ongoing international diplomatic crises, diplomacy has never been so solicited and has never been so indispensable to the precarious balance of our world and to peace. We cannot continue to move forward in this world without a highly competent and protected administration. I therefore wonder about the reform of senior management, which will put at risk the corps of Foreign Affairs Adviser and Plenipotentiary Ministers. I also wonder about the significant use of local law contracts, even among your majority, and about the disappearance of direct management of support functions, to use your very contemptuous vocabulary towards these agents. This movement aims to reduce costs to the detriment of the security of our consular network and embassies. The use of subcontracting for these functions poses serious problems, and it is worrying to know that our State is no longer able to ensure the safety of its buildings, personnel and IT services alone, and I am moving on. Finally, I wonder about the multiplication of agencies which take over, piece by piece, the prerogatives initially devolved to the central ministry. These agencies employ employees under private law and are too little subject to parliamentary scrutiny. Their proliferation raises the question of the role of the State in the conduct of public policies. Tomorrow, will your ministry be solely responsible for the management of these agencies, such as Atout France, Agence française de développement (AFD), Business France – the well-named one! – or will it remain a centralized public service, with trained staff, and with a status adapted to its function? This is a real debate of substance, which contrasts our vision of a public service carried by protected and well-trained agents with your liberal vision of a service to the public where everyone is interchangeable. Because we must take into account the work done by our diplomacy. The Communist MPs would like to thank again, because we will never do enough, the agents who succeeded, with so few means, in repatriating so many people during the crisis of the Covid-19 in 2020 or during the evacuation of Afghanistan. At this very moment, they continue to face innumerable administrative problems as a result of permanent changes in rules to enter and leave a territory. With regard to the budget itself, the increase in the French contribution to multilateral systems, in particular to the United Nations Security Council, is to be welcomed. The stated objective of this return from France among the major contributors is to strengthen the tools for peacekeeping and conflict prevention, in support of organizations dedicated to international security. To strengthen conflict prevention, I propose that you start by respecting and enforcing the UN resolutions that you are voting for! With such ambitions, we hope, for example, that you will quickly organise a referendum on self-determination in Western Sahara rather than paying MINURSO (United Nations mission for the organisation of a referendum in Western Sahara), costly and for the time being quite discreet, since you refuse to extend its missions to respect for human rights. A very large number of questions remain about the status of your department, the budget itself, its implementation and implementation by your administration. With a stable budget of 3 billion euros, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be able to face the diplomatic challenges of tomorrow, a fortiori with officials with uncertain status. For the Communist deputies, a diplomacy of peace would deserve increasingly important qualitative means. This budget is therefore not satisfactory and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u29	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u30	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u31	Thank you, Mr Special Rapporteur, for this presentation of the budget outline of the external action mission of the State for the year 2022. The 2% increase in appropriations represents an additional contribution of just over EUR 50 million, bringing this budget to EUR 3 billion. For the third year in a row, the Mission's capacity is increasing. This effort reflects the Ministry's ambition: to equip France with the means to enable it to conduct universal diplomacy and to best accompany its fellow citizens abroad. We were able to appreciate during the health crisis the power and strength of our diplomatic network by its ability to accompany, and if necessary repatriate, our fellow citizens from abroad. This force, our strength, must enable the State to take its full place in the post-crisis global context. In this sense, the budget presented strengthens and strengthens our capacity for action in Europe and around the world. On the one hand, it will ensure the continuity of the reforms undertaken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of human resources – this issue will hopefully be one of the main priorities in the coming years. The establishment of a new diplomatic school was proof of the State's ambition in that regard. On the other hand, as part of the modernization of the public services begun since the beginning of the quinquennium, the State's External Action Mission is still receiving significant funding this year for the digitisation of the Quai d'Orsay. The appropriations proposed by the Government are part of the continuation of the multi-year strategy of investments in computer equipment, the security of data transport, the modernization of the computer network and the development of the Ministry's applications. Again, the health crisis has shown us the importance of developing the digital dimension. Finally, this budget places particular emphasis on upgrading the state's housing stock abroad. The rise of these means is part of a human and realistic vision rather than merely accounting. Our 162 embassies and 210 consulates are not just working tools, they are also major diplomatic tools for our influence around the world. The draft budget for 2022 is a satisfaction: the resources devoted to heavy maintenance increase by 36 million to reach 77 million euros – they will have more than doubled. More broadly, we note that this finance bill (FLP) strengthens the resources allocated to our cultural diplomacy and influence, in particular through an increase in the appropriations of Program 185. An additional €18 million is foreseen. I would like to conclude by commending the efforts and energy that have been made to strengthen our diplomatic and consular force, and thus France's influence in the world. This budget, 2022, is in keeping with the previous budget, with the main objective of addressing the vulnerabilities that the Quai d'Orsay has suffered for several decades. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The world has emerged fragile from the pandemic. This crisis has created a new threat to the world order. In these circumstances, the time has come for France to take its full place by defending a genuine French and European diplomatic policy, in which our values and interests are fully promoted. In this respect, the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2022 is a real historic opportunity. The La République group is in the process of voting for this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u32	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u33	This morning we are considering the last budget of this legislature of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. It is characterized by a small increase in appropriations compared to the year 2021, in line with what you have been presenting to us for the past three years, Minister. In reality, it is a stagnant budget that does not even allow to return to the level of 2017. Of course, we can highlight some welcome efforts. Funding for the renovation of real estate assets is on the rise, after several years in which our foreign heritage has been robbed. We hope that the effort will last and that the €400 million envelope over five years for the rehabilitation of the park will be respected, bearing in mind that we have already fallen behind a little bit. We also welcome the end of the draconian downsizing of the Quai d'Orsay – I know that you have taken care of it, Minister. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already taken sufficient part in the process of redressing public accounts. I would also like to pay tribute, on behalf of the Republican Group, to all diplomatic personnel for their work in the service of our country, in particular for its exceptional mobilization during the pandemic. But, Minister, beyond your important personal commitment, which I would like to stress, your budget is not up to the stakes. Above all, at the time of the review of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, we are trying to identify the strong points or the guideline for France's foreign policy. This is in line with the quinquennium's record in many other areas, where the French have experienced – at their expense, alas! – the limits of the famous "at the same time". In 2017, the President of the Republic had multiplied the priorities. La francophonie was a priority, cultural diplomacy was a priority, France's strategy in the Indo-Pacific was a priority, influential diplomacy was a priority, the re-foundation of Europe was a priority, NATO was a priority. I stop the list here, but we could add some more. For the past five years, there has been a lot of speech from the Head of State, a lot of incantations, a lot of smiles and handshakes, a lot of beautiful photos and, above all, a lot of communication. All for what results? Five years later, France lost its visibility and influence as a result of increasing priorities. The announcement on 15 September of the loss of the Australian submarine contract acted as a revelation and a profound humiliation for our country. The Australians, the Americans and the British, our partners and allies, have gone so far as to offend us for plotting behind our backs and have never considered us so little. They don't consult us anymore and they don't even take us into account anymore. This collapse of the Australian contract is, alas, not the only setback of your foreign policy. While, for the past five years, the President of the Republic has overjoyed his relations with the American presidents of yesterday and today, we are unable to influence anything. Another example is President Biden's decision to withdraw unilaterally from Afghanistan. Our diplomacy is left to the fait accompli and we only have to follow docilely. In 2019 in Brégançon, the President of the Republic proudly announced alongside President Putin a "real warming dynamic" between our two countries. Two years later, when we see that the Wagner Group is moving to Mali, our concern is more than legitimate, when we have deployed considerable military resources there. And now Algeria no longer even allows the aircraft of Operation Barkhane to fly over its territory. We have come to such a deterioration of our relations that his ambassador in Paris asks the Algerian community in France to constitute a "le lever de commande" on French politics. Definitely, in addition to losing influence, we are angry with a lot of people. What we regret most is that, in the course of all these events, France is no longer only a spectator of the course of things, of what is happening throughout the world, that it is set aside and subjected without saying anything. We are told that a new roadmap for influence diplomacy is due to come into being at the end of this year 2021. We welcome it, it was time, four and a half years after you came to power! I gave you almost three years ago, Minister, a report written with my colleague Sira Sylla which contained 135 recommendations for France's strategy of influence diplomacy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As the dusk of President Macron's quinquennium approaches, it is no longer time for road maps or fine speeches, but for observations. In foreign policy as in many other areas, it is the lack of concrete results that we see and regret. We are defending another ambition for our country: that is why Members of the Republican Group will oppose this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u34	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u35	Last year at this rostrum, I welcomed the work done by diplomatic and consular staff to deal with the urgency of the beginning of the covid -19 pandemic. This year, the emergency was different, but the situations remained complex and unstable. Once again, the teams at the Quai d'Orsay have been particularly dedicated and have done remarkable work in the service of our fellow citizens abroad. I was able to express and verify it to every one of my movements outside our borders. I would also like to congratulate the French agents who have ensured the continuity of our services in the fields of education and cultural cooperation. The Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, unlike others, welcomes the effort made in favour of the 105 Action programme by France in Europe and around the world, which, with more than €1.8 billion, saw its appropriations increase by 1.7% in 2022. I would also like to recall our proactive policy this year on multilateralism, as when, in May, we initiated the summit on financing African economies. Our action is also illustrated by our ambitions for COP26. If we want to remain faithful to our multilateralist logic, we need important human and material resources, which are present in the budget we are considering today. Our group therefore welcomes the increase in appropriations under Programme 105, in particular for Action 02 European Action. This increase reflects our aspirations for the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and I welcome it. With regard to programme 151, we also welcome the stabilization of the workforce of the Quai d'Orsay – mentioned by the Special Rapporteur – for the second year in a row. We particularly welcome the suspension of the Public Action 2022 programme, which resulted in a 12 per cent reduction in staff. It was becoming difficult to maintain French excellence in diplomatic and consular matters by having understaffed services. We should provide the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, which has a broad scope of action, with the human resources necessary to maintain French excellence in diplomatic and consular matters. In order to ensure the efficiency and quality of our diplomatic service, the budget for 2022 provides for enhanced means to put an end to the offending of the Ministry's staff. In this regard, our group welcomes the ambitious modernisation plan to be implemented for EUR 30 million. Finally, with respect to program 185, I would like to recall the importance of la francophonie in the French outreach strategy around the world. While many studies point to the potentially rapid growth of French speakers, Francophones must be at the heart of our strategy in order to strengthen the place of French, at the forefront of the world's languages. In this regard, I would like to welcome the continued increase in the grants allocated to the AEFE and the French Institute, voted last year in this forum. Since their actions are at the heart of France's policies for development and cultural and linguistic influence, they should be supported, even if I agree with the remarks made on this subject by the draftsman Petit. I would also like to highlight the increase in funding dedicated to Franco-country campuses that allow projects to be developed with African institutions. Finally, I would also like to point out that LabelFrancEducation exceeds its objectives, while the exceptional financial support granted to associations participates in the FLAM – French mother tongue scheme. These programmes, which work well, contribute to France's influence abroad and to the intensification of our relations with our international partners. However, I would like to note that the increase in funding for our outreach is less rapid than the growth of potential Francophone speakers in the world. If we really want 700 million people around the world to practice our language soon, it is necessary to share our budgetary efforts. We must therefore aim even higher in the years to come. We also need to amplify international talent mobility programmes as this will be one of the keys to the solidarity and responsible support of developing countries. With regard to student mobility, according to UNESCO, France has lost one place behind Germany. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is pleased with the increase this year in appropriations under the 185 programme, which also reflects ambitions in terms of cultural diplomacy. The enhanced resources dedicated to this program are a response to the complex and unprecedented situation we have known since the beginning of the covid -19 pandemic. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] As you will understand, our group supports this budget which it considers voluntary and will therefore vote in favour of adopting its appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u36	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u37	First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the long-term evolution of the workforce at the Quai d'Orsay. This department is one of the ones that most strictly respects Bercy's annual cutbacks, sometimes even going beyond the stated goals. However, all actors agree that this logic has reached its limits if France's role and presence abroad are to be maintained. With regard to the downsizing, while programming for 2022 is marked by a slight inflection, it remains temporary, and it is worth denouncing the numerous abolitions of posts decided in recent years. They are all the less justified because the department is trying to compensate for them by resorting to measures of flexibilization of human resources that are quite critical and potentially highly counterproductive from the point of view of efficiency. This flexibility is illustrated in several ways. First, national civil servants of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs are now often replaced by local law officers who rarely have their expertise or experience of positions abroad, which may have consequences that are not annoyed, for example when managing a crisis. Secondly, since June 2020, the use of national volunteers has been facilitated, their scope of competence being extended. Finally, in the PLF for 2022, out of 43 job creations, forty are apprentice positions, which are essential for the renewal of the workforce, but which do not meet immediate skill needs as would a recruitment of managers. The recognized expertise and commitment of our diplomats and staff abroad – still recently in Afghanistan – must be accompanied by human resources that meet the ambitions regularly displayed. Another major trend in the financing of the missions at the Quai d'Orsay is to replace conventional budgetary appropriations with an increasing use of self-financing. Financially independent institutions, French alliances and other institutions are encouraged to self-finance themselves, with two important consequences: on the one hand, tuition fees and the cost of the services offered tend to increase, making universal access more difficult. On the other hand, the teaching of French and the cultural offer abroad are increasingly based on private structures, which raises substantive questions on the coherence and orientation of France's cultural and educational policy abroad. Moreover, while funding needs should have been covered by new budgetary appropriations, there is an increasing trend towards redeployment of appropriations within the budget of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs or recourse to the cash resources of operators such as the AEFE. The last point I would like to stress is the need to take account of the post-sanitary crisis situation. Thus, the appropriations for protection and social action should be substantially increased in order to deal with the consequences of the covid-19. Social affairs funds provide monthly, resource-tested assistance to compatriots in great difficulty or children with disabilities, as well as one-off assistance to French people in temporary difficulties. The number of beneficiaries is estimated at 4000. We will defend some amendments aimed at correcting these guidelines. Despite some positive developments, such as the stabilization of staff and credits in the PLF for 2022, the sustainability of the quality of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its embassies, its educational institutions and cultural dissemination bodies still seems to be subject to many risks. As we see, the proliferation of international crises calls for ambition and unwavering commitment to our fellow citizens around the world. For all these reasons, and taking into account the reservations that have been made, the Socialist and related group will abstain on the vote of the foreign action mission of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u38	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u39	Almost 3 billion euros, or 45 million euros more than last year and an increase of more than 200 million euros throughout the quinquennium: this is the weight of the majority's commitment to France's place in the world. Since 2017, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, we have pursued a policy that is more proactive than ever to defend French position, culture and values on the international stage. I am thinking, among other things, of the additional EUR 25 million allocated to the AEFE or to the plan to secure our extraterritorial real estate rights of way, amounting to EUR 66.5 million. Beyond these ambitious goals, this majority has been able to respond responsibly and inventively to the challenges of the health crisis. As early as spring 2020, assistance to the 3.5 million French people living abroad and the repatriation of 370,000 of them stranded outside the national territory were provided. In addition, an exceptional €155 million envelope was created in 2020, particularly for the benefit of the French abroad and the most vulnerable AEFE institutions. The Working Together Group takes this opportunity to thank all consular and diplomatic officers, as well as consular officials, for their dedication to our compatriots in this context. With this 2022 finance bill, we are keeping the course set for the past five years. We will strengthen our tools of cross-border influence, inter alia by increasing French voluntary contributions to international organisations, for example, to €30 million in the area of peace and security. Our effort will also include increased support for French-foreign campuses, international student mobility, school support for children with disabilities, and the cultural and creative industries that make French sensitivities, knowledge and know-how shine on a daily basis. In addition, we maintain the level of scholarships awarded by the AEFE and allow it to pay 10 million aid for French education in Lebanon. In total, it is 15 million euros more than in 2021 that we will devote to our cultural diplomacy and influence. Moreover, our objectives cannot be achieved without a fundamental transformation of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. In order to ensure France's credibility on the international stage and the safety of those who serve it, we will thus maintain at the level of 42 million euros the appropriations dedicated to the heavy maintenance of our buildings abroad. The most important work we have to do, however, remains that of modernising our resources: on the one hand, that of working tools, with 5 million euros allocated to the digitisation of the ministry, in the continuity of the initiatives already undertaken to establish digital civil registration, Internet voting and a telephone and online response centre; on the other hand, that of human resources, thanks to €30 million dedicated to remuneration, mobility, training and social action for our agents. Finally, our efforts can only be long-term if they are fiscally sustainable. The Government has ensured this by rationalizing the workforce until the health crisis changes our paradigm. For example, more than 400 full-time equivalents (FTEs) were shared with other departments. Of course we can always expect more and better, but the mission of the State's external action is well marked by the upgrading and modernization of our foreign policy resources, at the service of the French established outside the national territory, of the protection of our sovereignty and of the influence of our values in the world. It is that of a more daring France, which looks at the future and knows how to be heard in the concert of nations. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and Dem groups. – Mr Christophe Di Pompeo, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] As a result, the Action Together Group will support the allocation of the appropriations allocated to this budget mission, as well as the whole of this finance bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u40	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u41	The pandemic we have experienced and its consequences have led us to change our paradigm and to be resilient to the unsure. This crisis has also shown the limits of the efforts required of administrations subject to sustainable fragility. From this perspective, the budget for 2022 is, let's say, part of the world after and aims to foster active diplomacy. Let us not forget, moreover, that the appropriations of the mission External action of the State are also intended for the implementation of measures to structure the tourist supply and the influence of France. I'll come back. The draft finance law foresees an increase of 45 million euros in the appropriations of the external action mission of the State, in particular to amplify the priorities identified in 2021 – real estate and digital –, to finance a plan to modernise the ministry's human resources and to strengthen the means of cultural diplomacy and influence. The IDU and independent group welcomes first of all the significant increase – more than 150% – in the 151 French abroad programme and consular affairs, which will finance the modernisation, development and maintenance of the administrative tools necessary to supervise the next elections. In addition, a specific budget will be devoted to the organisation of the four rounds of elections to be held during the presidential and legislative elections – since eleven deputies represent the French established outside France. It should be welcomed and recalled that the Ministry's reform had also resulted in the modernization of public services: the creation of a digital civil registry, the introduction of Internet voting for the consular elections of 2021 and the elections of 2022, and the development of a telephone and online response centre. On the one hand, we welcome the strengthening of the resources devoted to cultural diplomacy and influence, as evidenced by the continuation of the Agency's grant for French education abroad and the additional funds allocated, in particular, to scholarships for foreign students in international mobility. On the other hand, in terms of tourism supply and international reach, France has generally resisted better than its neighbours, which is to be welcomed. It welcomed 40 million tourists in 2020, 50 million fewer than in 2019, thus raising 28.7 billion euros in revenue thanks to international tourism, a decrease of 49.6% compared to 2019. The year 2021 led to a rebound in activity, with the exception of Paris and the Île-de-France region, which suffered greatly from the absence of international tourists. If the most distant clientele remains largely absent, since the return of Asian customers to a level comparable to that of 2019 is not expected to take place before 2022, European local customers – including Germans, Dutch and Belgians – continued to stay in France. The British are an exception, but perhaps Brexit has something to do with it. For example, European clientele, which constituted 75% of international flows prior to the covid-19 crisis, is expected to account for 85% of visitors in 2021. Having myself been elected in a tourist department, the Vosges, I measure the importance of promoting tourism. France's attractiveness depends not only on promotional operations, but also on the strengthening of its diplomatic ties with certain countries. While the State has a role to play and, as I said earlier, is taking positive action at its level, I would also like to commend the work of the communities – regions and departments – all of which are carrying out multiple actions to value the territories. Finally, while we can be pleased with the creation of a State Secretariat for Tourism, the French from abroad and the Francophonie, the expectations of our compatriots remain very strong. I am thinking in particular of the families that have been separated for many months – and sometimes remain so – because of the health rules in force in some countries. If we wish to send a strong signal to the French community living abroad, we must express our support by accompanying it in the best possible conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In view of these various remarks, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of the appropriations for the external action mission of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u42	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u43	You continue, Minister, to repeat that you have put an end to the hemorrhage your ministry is suffering. Maybe you've put down a garrote, but we're looking for blood transfusion in vain. I repeat this here after having already hammered it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs has suffered the worst austerity cure of all ministries, losing 53 % of its staff in 30 years! Unsurprisingly, cultural cooperation networks, particularly in Africa and Asia, have been cut off by this large cut. I welcome, of course, the abandonment of the 10% reduction in the wage bill for staff posted abroad, as well as the halt to the endless robbing of real estate. But the problem, as you know, is actually structural and it is not by stopping the bulldozer that we rebuild what was destroyed. Still, we should agree on what we want to build. We plead for strategic independence, you remain in the leadership of NATO. We call for an end to the rule of free trade, you put what remains of your diplomacy at the service of the major groups. We want to build peace, you make the sale of weapons the cornerstone of our foreign policy. Under cover of realpolitik, you put us on the trailer of the world. Looking carefully at the budget shift, it is clear that you are not giving an ambitious political perspective to the department. Economic diplomacy takes precedence over everything else, in a mixture of genres that never ceases to shrink our area of influence, to bring it in at all costs in the narrow square of neoliberalism. An example in Uganda: A recent report by Friends of the Earth shows how all French diplomacy has started to support Total's mega-oil project in the Great Lakes region. So much so that 100,000 people will have to be expropriated: the promise of 200,000 barrels of oil per day is worth the deafening of certain rights! By the way, Total becomes the preferred partner and sponsor of our embassy on site and recruits a former departmental advisor, while one of its employees joins the head of our economic diplomacy. The examples follow each other everywhere and show the reality of what Emmanuel Macron called "agile diplomacy": a certain way to make ourselves everywhere the smugglers of influence and the VRPs of our so-called national florets. You know well, however, that when we weaken diplomatic capabilities – whether by reducing the material means of their implementation or by aligning ourselves in alliances contrary to our principles and interests – it is politics that recedes. The game of international relations is then balanced by force, whether economic or military. While environmental peril makes cooperation and coordination among States more necessary than ever and our staff alerts us to the increased risk of high-intensity war, is it frankly responsible for slashing our diplomatic capabilities? An article from the World yesterday revealed that two historical bodies of the Quai d'Orsay would be abolished as part of the reform of the high public service desired by Emmanuel Macron. The CFDT even states that this reform of senior management "signs the planned disappearance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs". Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to deprive ourselves of the skills we need to deal with future crises. Under the guise of blackmail to modernization and flexibility, the denaturing of the diplomatic profession comes to finish the weakening of our foreign policy, at a time when it is particularly valuable. So, when I hear that we are presented here with the renaissance budget, I think that some may confuse dawn with twilight. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I will conclude with a comment which I have made several times in committee and which deals with the meaning that we could give to our foreign policy: in essence, it is clear that, in the face of crises throughout the world and the wars that are about to take place, our main failure will have been our inability to support the creation, maintenance or development of States capable of proposing to us, in the countries in difficulty concerned, interlocutors capable of defining their own policies. On this point, we are not discussing and we are not setting guidelines. However, I believe that this is the question of the future of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u44	We're done with the group spokespersons. The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u45	The budget I am presenting to you for 2022 will, it seems to me, give the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs the means to carry out diplomatic and consular action commensurate with the ambitions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u46	Little ambitions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u47	... our country's interests and values, in a time of immense challenges, increasing brutalisation and exacerbation of power relations – immense challenges that we must face with our partners in the European Union and our allies in the fight for the maintenance of multilateralism at the global level. This budget is expected to reach more than €6 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 12% over the initial finance law for 2021. The increase in the budget path is therefore confirmed again. I heard Mr Herbillon talk about a "minimal" increase in appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u48	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u49	I give him a clarification that may have escaped him – even though I know his will, sometimes very marked, to examine the budget documents in detail: in reality, the capacity of the State's external action mission has increased by 116 million euros. Perhaps Mr. Herbillon could come closer to the Special Rapporteur, who had made it clear. Growth is therefore more significant than you claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u50	I was comparing the budget for 2022 with that for 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u51	I therefore object to the term "minim". And, since you recalled that we are at the end of the quinquennium, I will make a comparison between President Sarkozy's term of office and that of President Macron:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u52	The previous quinquennium is that of Mr. Hollande!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u53	We're doing a little prehistory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u54	...the budget of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs increased by 15% under the quinquennium Sarkozy and by 30% under the quinquennium Macron. So we can't talk about "minimal" progression, as you did a moment ago. This new budget is first and foremost a budget to strengthen and modernize our diplomatic tool. Several speakers stressed this, in particular the special rapporteurs and draftsmen: the stabilization of the Ministry's staff will be maintained in 2022. Public Action 2022 is behind us and the department's employment ceiling is raised by 43 FTEs, which is not a huge increase but a break from previous developments. I would also like to welcome the words of several speakers regarding the commitment of the women and men of the Quai d'Orsay to bring the voice and action of our country all over the world, sometimes in the difficult and dramatic circumstances that you have recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u55	Men and women you're going to break with your state reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u56	I am thinking in particular of the courage and professionalism shown by the agents involved in the evacuation operation Apagan, which made it possible this summer to secure our compatriots, as well as many Afghan women and Afghans threatened because of their struggle for values that are also ours. I have made it clear in committee that this budget, and I would like to remind you here, that our salary bill will be subject to a very controlled and targeted increase that will cover the exchange risks on the salaries of departmental officials and, above all, to raise the salaries of local law officers. I would also like to point out that an envelope of EUR 30 million will be devoted to financing a major reform of our human resources with three main objectives: greater openness – even though the Quai is already much more open than other administrations; enhanced initial and continuing training, notably through the creation of a diplomatic and consular school – a novelty that I have had the opportunity to talk about at length in committee; and a fluidisation and dynamism of careers. I would remind you that the increase in the resources devoted to the maintenance of our heritage abroad is in line with the commitments I made to you last year. I know all the attention you are paying to this, and almost all the speakers have mentioned it. The real estate budget has been a priority for me since the beginning of my tenure at the Quai d'Orsay and we are now reaching a sustainable level, with 77 million euros of investment abroad, to maintain our heritage. It will obviously have to be sustained. These availabilities will allow the development of many programs that have so far been on hold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u57	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u58	I have also ensured that this budget will enable us to continue our multi-annual digital investment strategy, bearing in mind that 10 million euros of additional commitment authorisations are foreseen in 2022 for the investments we have started. It is also the budget of a large French public service ministry abroad. Thus, thanks to the important means that you have kindly put at our disposal at the height of the first pandemic wave, our consular network has been able to accompany our compatriots abroad in this event, and we will remain with them as long as necessary to help families who need it to finance the education of French students in the French education network abroad. In this regard, even if the budget posting shows a one-off savings of EUR 10 million, we will in fact be able, thanks to the Agency's support for French language teaching abroad, to remain at the same level as last year, and more if necessary. I would like to say once again in this Chamber, because it was a parliamentary initiative, that we have increased the school support arrangements for students with disabilities in the AEFE. Similarly, we will strengthen the solidarity organisations set up to help the French abroad at the time of the crisis by providing an additional EUR 1 million for local aid and solidarity organisations – OLES. This budget also allows for continued weighting in multilateral institutions. I am grateful to Mr. Lecoq for having recalled that our ministry has invested a great deal in a number of multilateral tools, particularly related to peace and security: I am thinking of the IAEA – the International Atomic Energy Agency –, the OPCW – the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons –, the OSCE – the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe – and the Peacebuilding Fund (CPF). These are political actions that we are taking to strengthen our country's international weight, including multilateralism. Finally, I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the increase in the means of our cultural diplomacy: this year they will reach 660 million euros, the highest figure in the quinquennium, when, as some of you have reminded us, this programme was promised a decline that would have been harmful and absurd. I am delighted to have fought to prevent this negative drift on cultural issues. A road map to modernise our instruments of action in this area will be made public in a few days' time, and I will be happy to be able to speak about it before your Committee on Foreign Affairs as I have already announced. The international projection of academic and academic excellence, the development of the teaching of French and the influence of the cultural and creative industries must indeed remain real priorities for us, if we want to take our full place in the new battles of influence and models, as the draftsman Frédéric Petit reminded us. The revival of student mobility to our universities will be a key issue in this budget for 2022. I would point out that the AEFE grant is stabilised to the tune of EUR 417 million and that, despite the crisis, we have certified 20 additional schools since 2020, bringing the total number of French schools abroad to 545. I hope that this dynamic will continue, as France thus strengthens its status as the world's first educational network. I would point out that the grants of Campus France and the French Institute of Paris will be maintained at their level of 2021. The grant paid to Atout France will be slightly increased, in a tourism context always marked by the health crisis: after having paid more than 7 million euros in 2020 to Atout France to accompany French destinations and their actors, it is indeed important to reinforce the action of this operator, who is responsible for a mission to regain our international tourist attraction – I have noted the comments of the special rapporteur Émilie Bonnivard and the rapporteur for opinion Robert Therry in this respect, but the Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne will have the opportunity to speak on the subject during the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This is the overall meaning of this budget, which, I am happy to recall again, will enable our diplomacy to live up to the image and action of France by further strengthening its agility and its weapons in order to face the new international situation which, as you know, is today very confrontational and in the midst of a recomposition. I thank you for your support, including of course that of the majority, throughout this quinquennium, and I hope that you will gather around a positive vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u59	It's not so much worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u60	Minister, we are all sensitive to your comments. We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the length of questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u61	Like many other sectors of our economy, tourism has suffered severely in the last two years as a result of the crisis of the covid-19. First of all, I welcome the Government's support for tourism companies during the health crisis: taking care of partial unemployment in hotels and restaurants during confinements, taking care of a large part of the operating losses for travel agencies, tour operators and event professionals, and of course the tourism component of the recovery plan. While the economic recovery is there, it is crucial to strengthen tourism activity in order to participate in the revitalization of the hotel, catering and leisure sector. That is why I welcome the strengthening of the resources allocated to our cultural diplomacy and influence thanks to this significant increase of 17 million euros on the 185 programme compared to the initial finance law for 2021. I am fortunate to have on my territory an exceptional vineyard, a vector of important wine tourism that benefits the hills cut by vineyards and where villages, castles and churches cling. In Épernay, Avenue de Champagne attracts 2 million visitors every year; the neighbouring commune of Hautvillers, a small village between vineyards and forests known as the cradle of champagne, is every year, at the time of harvests, a tourist destination of the highest importance. The champagne product, as you know, exports massively and is a major contributor to the foreign trade of the State, exceeding EUR 2 billion per year out of the EUR 5 billion generated by the wine sector as a whole. If the North American clientele seems to be back, as shown by the number of requests to convert the U.S. vaccination certificate into a French health pass communicated by your ministry, this is unfortunately not yet the case of the Asian clientele, which is also very important every year before the health crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] France, in 2019, had once again confirmed its position as the world's leading tourist destination with 90 million visitors welcomed. As tourism is essential to our economy and jobs, we must return to this level as soon as possible. Minister, could you detail the missions that will be carried out to promote international tourism in our territory through the funds of the State's External Action Mission, as well as the strategy followed for Atout France in 2022 based on the funds allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u62	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u63	Jean-Yves Le Drian indicated this at the moment: the grant dedicated to Atout France is increasing slightly and, as part of the plan to win back tourism that we are preparing at the request of the President of the Republic, measures will be announced in the coming weeks after the work that we are leading with all the stakeholders, be it professionals, territories or regions. I can assure you that our determination is strong to help tourism bounce. This will be very concrete not only through the pursuit of promotional campaigns but also through their amplification. For example, with regard to the winter season that begins in the next few weeks, it has been decided to multiply the promotion budgets of Atout France by three to reach the 2 million euros. We will also continue the successful work carried out last summer in collaboration with the thirteen regional tourism committees – the TRCs – as part of the major pan-European campaign "France, a whole world to explore", which has met its audience and success. TRCs have already indicated an interest in continuing this type of partnership. And then a lot of events are planned to maintain the link with among others the tour operators and distributors through major events such as the Destination montagnes-Grand ski fair in Chambéry next January, followed two months later by the Rendez-vous fair in France which brought several hundred operators from all over the world and which will be held again in Nantes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you mentioned wine tourism, MP, I would like to announce that Destination vineyards will be back in the second half of 2022. I assure you that we are determined to put all the means necessary to bring back the national clientele and the European clientele of the locality in the first place, while of course maintaining the link with the Asian clientele. This link seems to be less long-term, but we hope to welcome him again after having already managed to find North American clientele since June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u64	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u65	This draft finance law is, of course, that of an unprecedented rise in the external action of the State, in particular through the increase in the human and financial resources of the Ministry but, at the local level, if ambassadors manage to coordinate the strategy of all the actors involved in the said action, the professionalization efforts carried out by the Ministry on these operators and the inter-ministerial synergies would deserve to be developed. Thus, cultural diplomacy in particular, the historic heart of France's external action, has not completed its reorganization. The very significant increase in the intervention and role of the Agence française de développement also calls for a strengthening of the orientation and monitoring of the agency by the two relevant ministries. The establishment of an independent commission to assess our official development assistance (ODA) policy was established by the Programme Law on Solidarity Development and the Fight against Global Inequalities. I would like to know what progress has been made in setting up this committee and what resources it will have and whether all the necessary attention will be paid to its proper functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u66	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u67	I thank you for this question, Mrs Kuric, which actually covers two of them, since it also concerns the official development assistance mission that we will be discussing earlier. I confirm that the Government is working on the establishment of the evaluation committee you are referring to. This is a priority and I remember that it was an important part of the debate when we considered the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. It is a matter of meeting the legitimate expectations of parliamentarians and our fellow citizens: it is a normal counterpart to the scale of the increase in our means of action throughout the quinquennium. We will soon be required, by a decree in preparation, to give the composition of this commission. I can already tell you that it will be composed of a college of ten free, recognised and qualified personalities and a college of four parliamentarians, that it will have to make operational recommendations and that, placed with the Court of Auditors, it will have the financial means to act, that is to say to make diagnostics and audits. I would point out that it will be totally independent: I committed myself to it in the debate that I referred to and I say it again here. It will have to report on its work to Parliament in full compliance with the democratic control exercised by Parliament. We are working to ensure that it can begin to meet at the beginning of next year. It will therefore be in place very quickly – the decree is being prepared.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u68	I call the appropriations of the External Action Mission of the State, entered in statement B. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1955.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u69	It aims to increase the appropriations of programme 105 by €82.83 million to finance the share of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs in the so-called European Peace Facility (EPF). I am sorry to propose this amendment late. This was discussed only two days ago, but I wanted it to be brought before the House at first reading of the finance bill. It's a little complicated. At the starting point, there was the African Peace Facility – Peace Facility for Africa – a European facility financed by the European Development Fund (EDF). This fund has disappeared in the multi-annual financial framework (MFF) to be integrated into the NDICI – an instrument of neighbourhood, development cooperation and international cooperation –, itself financed by the classical French contribution to the functioning of the European Union. However, the African Peace Facility, previously financed by the European Development Fund, could not be financed by the NICI, as it was not a development facility. It was therefore to be financed by the budgetary contributions of States. It is therefore now part of the new European peace facility. This VET is divided into two pillars. One, strictly military, is financed by the Ministry of Armed Forces, the other on peace and security operations is financed by the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. We had to find the right device to solve a bit of a technical problem. That is why it is only now that I propose to add 82.83 million to our budget to finance all this. I hope I've made it clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u71	We are well aware of the difficulty of adjusting budgetary agendas and operations. The Committee on Finance has not considered the amendment, and for the sake of the matter, but, in my personal capacity, I am issuing a favourable opinion which I hope will be approved by the members of the committee and followed by those of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u72	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u73	I would like to take advantage of the fact that the civilian and military aspects of the European Peace Facility have just been mentioned, to talk about our external intelligence services. They've been pretty rough lately. We have seen this during several hearings on the AUKUS case. Of course, they can't defend themselves. I want to assure them that the majority is very supportive of them and that they are grateful for the work they have done. The reference to the VET in which they compete was the ideal time to say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u74	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendments Nos 818 and 817, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u75	Amendment No 818 aims to ensure the sustainability of the scheme set out in the third amending finance law of 2020, on emergency support for the education of French scholarship students. In the same vein, Amendment No 817 is intended to compensate for the drop in school support appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u77	I stressed in my introductory statement that a necessary effort had been made by the Government to upgrade the maintenance of the property and, while acknowledging that some families were still facing difficulties, I noted that the amount provided for in the text for school grants, which is added to the AEFE's accounts – in particular as a result of the payment to the AEFE of emergency funds voted in 2020 – should make it possible to place the aid for schooling at a satisfactory level without making provision for exceptional appropriations. The increase in credits you are proposing is very high. If the amendment were adopted, all the real estate maintenance credits in France would be abolished! You have not said anything about this, but we must be aware of it, because it is the budget line devoted to real estate policy that your amendments are aimed at. For example, EUR 25 million should be raised from the appropriations for digital or personnel expenditure, which is not possible at all. Therefore, although the committee has not considered the amendments, I am against them in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u79	In the absence of a withdrawal, the Government would be opposed to both amendments. However, I want to reassure their authors: we have the right means to deal with the situation of French families abroad and French children who attend school there. In 2020, while French education abroad was hit hard by the global pandemic, it was allocated €89 million. Today, thanks to the budgetary appropriations and the balance of the exceptional appropriations voted last year, we are at least at the same level as was planned in 2021, a particular year since the pandemic continued to produce its effects. I assure you again: even if we were to go beyond the amounts envisaged, thanks to the remainder of the AEFE's support, we would have the means to deal with it. I would add that Jean-Yves Le Drian and I have decided to make sure that students with disabilities are much better accompanied: from now on, all the students in question will be involved and not the only fellows – this translates into an increase in credits of 1 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u80	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u81	I would like to refer to the funding of schooling by families because I believe that the amendments, if they are useless, as has been perfectly explained, indicate a position on which we must return. Mrs Santiago, you mentioned, in your initial speech, the establishments in direct management by the State. I would like to point out that on average they cost much more than institutions run by what you call external forces, that is, by families, by associations, by premises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u82	It's private!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u83	Yes, it's private, it's voluntary! Football clubs are private in France, but they are associations. That's how it works: it's normal. If a foreign state were to set up a public school in France, we wouldn't be very happy! I went to Lebanon where I saw one of the new approved schools. Accreditation does not put our budgets at risk: the number of schools involved can thus increase. At the beginning of the quinquennium, there were just under 500 registered French high schools; We're now at 540...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u84	Five hundred and forty-five!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u85	As a result, there are 45 new institutions – thank you Minister – in which scholarships can be obtained. Despite this, our financial tools remain. We can't use everything. If it were necessary, we could count, as Mr. Secretary of State pointed out, on the soul.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u86	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u87	In the budget discussion, parliamentarians who wish to increase the appropriations of one programme are obliged to reduce those of another. It's kind of a pledge, there are no other solutions. So you cannot caricature the amendments by saying, as you have done, Mr Special Rapporteur, that we would have intended to abolish the appropriations for real estate policy. I have defended Mr Alain David's amendments on behalf of the Socialist and related Group, and therefore I do not withdraw them. I would add that not everything happens perfectly in French schools abroad. I was, again yesterday, with the French soldiers of the NATO base in Naples: they have the greatest difficulty in schooling their children, even though they represent France. This is a problem: many armies finance the education of young children of their foreign-based military, but this is not the case of the French army. We still have a long way to go on a large number of files.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u88	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 981.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u89	It aims to increase by 20 million euros the budget dedicated to operator Atout France in order to meet the major needs of recovery and revival of the tourism promotion of France abroad. When we spend EUR 2 million to promote the winter season, Austria spends EUR 17 million! While we have put tens of billions of euros on the table to save the tourist economy during the crisis, keeping the same promotional budget as before the pandemic seems derisory to me. At a key point in the recovery, as all our competitors put the package on promotion to reach our customers as well, the 20 million that I propose can cause a major leverage effect – that we think of the billions spent on companies in the sector. We need to be more ambitious on these issues. Of course, there are rules relating to the procedure for amending the budget. I anticipate criticism by asking the Government to respond in substance, and to make an increase of 20 million in the appropriations for tourism promotion without taking that amount elsewhere, as we are obliged to propose. I would also like to know the position of the Secretary of State on the strategy with regard to the British clientele and the specific constraints that affect it. Furthermore, can you deliver a strong political message about the opening of winter sports stations, so that reservations will go up this season?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u91	We share the same philosophy of devoting resources and "putting the package" in favour of relaunching and promoting France's destination. Several rounds of work are already under way. We work with a number of international distributors and tour operators to increase the visibility of the destination France and to devote additional resources to its visibility and promotion. This component, in collaboration with the private sector, is important. It should not be overlooked because these actors are essential. In addition, in the context of the consultations carried out to draw up the plan for the recovery of tourism, it has become very clear that one of its axes will be to increase the means dedicated to the promotion. This work will continue and be completed in the next few weeks. The budget cycle that we are starting today will give you the opportunity to comment, in one way or another, on the increase in the means dedicated to promotion: be fully reassured about it! The spirit of your amendment will be satisfied in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u92	It's not about the mind; It's about credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u93	We're calibrating all this with the different actors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u94	It's not "philosophical"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u95	Mr. Herbillon is quite a connoisseur of the budget to know that we are now at the beginning of the marathon and not at its end. You will have the opportunity to comment on an issue on which we share the same ambition. With regard to the mountain destination, I want to be fully reassuring: the stations have started to open and they will be open; we work with professionals on practical arrangements. It should also be noted that the level of reservations reached 90% of that of 2019: I can only rejoice. As soon as the first flakes appear, we will be beyond what was planned in 2019; It's a good thing. Of course, British and Dutch clienteles are very important and a number of measures have been taken to facilitate their arrival.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u96	Fishing boats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u97	In the light of these explanations, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn – failing which the opinion will be unfavourable – knowing that we will come back to this issue in the next few weeks to engrave the various elements mentioned in the budget marble.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u98	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u99	I would like to support the amendment tabled by Mrs Bonnivard. With the case of the covid -19, foreign tourism stopped completely. He's got to take over. While this is partly the case spontaneously, it is also necessary to encourage the return of foreign tourists. This applies to tourism in mountain areas – I know how attached they are to the Special Rapporteur – but not only. I speak under the control of the Secretary of State: Brittany Ferries is the first French shipowner. In normal times, 85% of its passengers are British, and they must return. Secretary of State, I know that we are full of contradictory injunctions, since we also ask you to be demanding towards the British, if only to preserve the interests of French fishermen threatened by Brexit – as they are by the development of the marine wind, but this is another subject. In any case, we want British tourists to come back: this counts for many of our territories. When they return via Brittany Ferries, it is not just to go to Brittany, it is the entire western part of France, from north to south, that is irrigated by these flows of tourists – my colleague from Le Havre, Jean-Paul Lecoq, could say it just as well as I do. Mr Secretary of State, I understand that additional measures will be taken under an amending finance law. Perhaps you could tell us that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u100	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u101	While welcoming the action taken by Mrs Bonnivard since the beginning of this legislature to support the tourism sector, I would agree with the Secretary of State that each time the Government and the majority have been at the meeting to respond to the problems. Remember that in the summer of 2020, we all agreed to strengthen the resources allocated to Atout France by EUR 10 million, because the needs were real. For several years, we have been doing good collective work. As rapporteur-general, I should like to commend Mrs Bonnivard's work and the Government's work, which has always been up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u102	All these praises!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u103	That's what we'll see later!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u104	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u105	I would just like the Secretary of State to clarify the method. I share the questions of my colleague Le Fur: will there be a law of amending finance? Is it better to wait for the end of the budget marathon with the Senate? I would like to trust you, but I have proposed an additional EUR 20 million for Atout France and I would like to see compliance with this requirement. I would like to withdraw my amendment, provided that I am provided with precise answers as to the budgetary timetable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u106	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u107	As I said, we are in the process of finalizing the tourism recovery plan. Interdepartmental arbitrations will be delivered shortly and announcements will be made in partnership with communities and stakeholders. Until the final adoption of the finance bill, we will have the opportunity to come back to Parliament to draw the consequences of these decisions and, above all, of the joint work carried out since July not only with Alain Griset, but also with many territories and many of you. The Government will have the opportunity to submit to you, in a comprehensive manner, the translation of the measures decided for the whole plan, and not only for the promotion of tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u108	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u109	I also wanted to support the work of my colleague Émilie Bonnivard, who is very committed to defending her territory, and rightly so: we are talking in particular about all winter sports destinations, an essential element of tourism and – as you know – the attractiveness of our country. Not only have the ski resorts already suffered a lot from the decline in the number of French tourists, but they have also lost their international attractiveness. [[Smile]] I can hear what the Secretary of State said – this time, he looks at me in the face, no need to have, as before, eyes in his back to recognize me. He spoke of spirit, philosophy, it's very good: but we're waiting for credits. The plan that you are talking about in the finalisation phase must be translated very concretely, and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u110	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1500.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u111	We know that migration problems will increase in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u112	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u113	In this context, the issue of talent and skills mobility can be a way to forge new partnerships and not to be subjected to the anticipated migration flows. Since last July's law on programming for the development of solidarity and the fight against global inequalities, the issue of mobility of talent and skills has become a priority: mobility not only of French people internationally, but also of foreigners to France. This priority must be more concrete and take on a new dimension. This amendment proposes the creation of a new Mobility of talent and skills programme. It would aim not only to value and develop the offer of mobility programmes, to establish links with new partners, but also to coordinate the action of the various actors. This relates to the influence of France, but it is also a question of identifying talents, training them and bringing them to France. The French economy needs new skills. A significant number of entrepreneurs do not find the necessary skills. Identifying, training and bringing in new professionals could be an answer. The aim of the new programme would also be to make the objectives of the various ministries concerned more converging – work, foreign affairs, higher education and home affairs. By way of illustration, it is clear that the visa policy pursued by the Ministry of the Interior is in contradiction with our ambition to strengthen our relations and international mobility. Improvements should in any case be made for greater coherence: that is the ambition of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u115	Mr President, you are always speaking on the point, and we can only welcome the constancy of your gaze on this issue, which is absolutely fundamental. It must be better structured, especially in view of the unhealthy debate that is taking place in favour of populists of all kinds who truncate or steal from the French a real question that deserves our full attention: the international professional mobility of the various talents. Under the programming law of 4 August 2021, you obtained a report on the subject. It may be necessary to await the submission of this report before taking a new initiative. You spoke of a new dimension; Personally – since this amendment has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance – I believe that a new specific budgetary programme is not necessarily the right solution. It could lead to a significant fragmentation of the mission with a programme of only EUR 2 million within a mission that mobilises 3 billion. If one creates this program, one could imagine creating others – on cultural action, student mobility or teaching French abroad. It is clear that this does not necessarily correspond to the spirit of the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLF), and that this would complicate the management of the Mission's appropriations. The management of staff credits between the three existing programs has already raised many challenges in the past. One might also wonder whether it would be appropriate to separate professional mobilitys from student mobilitys, scientific mobilitys or exchanges of expertise that already benefit from the 185 program. Although synergies are undoubtedly to be put in place and the question is excellent, I will personally ask for your amendment to be withdrawn so that your proposal can be further refined once the report provided for in the programming law has been submitted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u116	And come on, he's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u118	[[Smile on the benches of the commissions]] I agree with the comments made by the Special Rapporteur. First of all, I would like to say that we share the objective of developing the mobility of talent and skills: your concerns are fair, Mr Fuchs. Mechanisms have already been put in place – I am thinking in particular of international corporate volunteering or the strategy put in place to retain the international talents of "tech". You stress the question of the coherence and dynamism of existing logics. In my opinion, we will not respond to these challenges by amputating the action of Atout France of 2 million euros – after what we have just heard about this operator, you will agree that this would not be appropriate. It would be useful if you could make your contribution and proposals as part of the road map on the influence I mentioned earlier. It will be closed in the coming days and presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in early December. The subject you are raising is not Mr Herbillon's 136th proposal, but it is one of the concerns that are fairly widely shared. I therefore propose that you include your proposal in all the proposals on the strategy of influence. This question must take its full place in this mechanism, which will constitute a road map for the future. If you agree, we can work in this direction. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment, so as not to reduce Atout France's appropriations by EUR 2 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u119	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u120	Thank you for your comments, Minister. We share the same objective and it is not with EUR 2 million that we are going to settle the issue: it is a matter of launching a dynamic. I am happy to accept your proposal, as long as it does not lead to the drowning of fish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u121	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u122	We can see the inconsistencies that exist: the actors themselves may be very effective on the ground, but the whole lacks overall cohesion and political vision. Most exchanges take place up to 29 years: no programme integrates very specific competences beyond. A lot of questions have to be resolved. I withdraw this amendment, which was intended to launch the discussion and to find a point of support for a real mobility policy that could be developed for the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u123	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 815.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u124	He proposes to abound the budget in favour of social assistance to the French from abroad the poorest – I have already mentioned this aspect in my opening speech. I would also like to take this opportunity to defend No 816: it is more specifically designed to triple the allocation of the Common Citizens' Fund, which is part of our relations with Germany. This fund supports the twinning of municipalities and citizens' initiatives for which public authorities are not directly involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u126	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u127	For No 815, the opinion is unfavourable. France will of course be at the meeting in the field of social assistance for French foreigners. I would point out that the overall allocation for social affairs is maintained at the same level as in 2021, after an increase of 18% compared to the initial 2020 finance law. This is an important foundation. In addition, some of the emergency plan appropriations voted in 2020 and carried over in 2021 were not fully consumed. For consistency, we therefore call on the Government to postpone them to fiscal year 2022. With regard to Amendment No 816, the Franco-German citizen's fund is not part of the State's external action mission but is part of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, which supports our entire contribution to the Franco-German Youth Office (OFAJ). I proposed in committee the doubling of the budget of the citizens' fund and, seeing that the PLF did not give you full satisfaction, I asked for it to be tripled; It's a little overbidding, but why not? We feel that you support this view and it is to your honour that it is fully satisfied and that is why I am giving it in my personal capacity, since the amendment has not been discussed in committee, an opinion which is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u129	Jean-Yves Le Drian will reply to Amendment No 816, and I am speaking on Amendment No 815 on social assistance appropriations for our compatriots. Here too, we are and will continue to be at the meeting. The finance law that is proposed to you makes it possible to do so fully, with a €15.2 million envelope for direct social assistance, slightly higher than in 2021. Above all, we obtained the postponement of the SOS system in 2021. Credits remain available, and we are working with Jean-Yves Le Drian to get the postponement in 2022. We have good hope. This concerns amounts higher than the amendment, since you are proposing EUR 2 million and more than double the amount could be released, up to EUR 6 million. In addition, we have increased the appropriations for local aid and solidarity organisations by EUR 1 million, which also come to the aid of our poorest or most vulnerable compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u130	Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u131	[[Smile on a few benches]] With regard to Amendment No 816, I had the opportunity to reply on the subject last year, since Mr Alain David had already tabled the same amendment or almost the same one. So that's the same answer. The funding of the citizens' fund created by the Treaty of Aachen is now charged to the Ministry of National Education and Youth. They're on the increase, but it's not in our budget. We must tell Mr.David because next year the fund will increase again and that will be the same answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u132	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u133	We hear that the fund is on the increase, but what Mr.David suggests is to add resources to your ministry for Franco-German relations, through citizens' actions and not just institutional ones – because we also sometimes resort to OFAJ when we carry out institutional actions with our town halls, in the context of our twinnings. The office is meeting in Le Havre in a few weeks, I think. If Alain David insists on this, it is probably because, given what is currently the economic relations between France and Germany – I am thinking in particular of the relocation of the Vinci engine, which has to leave Vernon for Germany – the latter appears almost as an opponent of France. It is therefore necessary for the French and German citizens to meet even more, which means more resources, especially since, as was pointed out at the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, tensions between our two countries extend beyond the borders of the European Union: in Africa, for example, where Germany is tending to gain ground, while the influence of France is receding. It is therefore urgent to identify ways to improve mutual knowledge between French and German citizens. Perhaps what diplomacy fails to do, citizens will be able to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u134	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u135	The social assistance we are voting here is distributed by bodies chaired by local elected representatives and not by the ministry. We have 450 local elected officials abroad who preside over these bodies and, if the appropriations are not always used, it is because they are local political decisions. On the citizens' fund, I would like to turn a blind eye to Mr Lecoq: we are talking about citizens and not private citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u137	All these projects are led by organisations that you have previously described as private, dear colleague, and which I call citizens. I represent people who embody a form of ambivalence. As I often say, I am not the chosen one of the French who live in Germany, I am not the elected one of Germans or the elected one of French, I am the elected one of people who are Franco-German, sometimes for several generations. With this in mind, the citizens' fund is a great success. When I auditioned his director this year, he showed me that doubling the budget would make it possible to carry out a multitude of small projects. In other words, we animate the spirit you call of your vows. All these initiatives of small associations work, with small amounts, to strengthen the Franco-German collaboration, which I can assure you is perennial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u138	I call Mr Kamardine to support Amendment No. 985.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u139	Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, I would like to give you a little confidence in the national representation. I had the opportunity to point out that your budget was well below the promises of the President of the Republic, particularly with regard to raising public aid to 0.55%. However, you have often shown openness and listening to parliamentarians, including when they are in opposition. This is proof of the initiatives that you have taken, and on which the Maori elected representatives have assisted you, in an exceptional effort to accompany our neighbours in the Comoros. You have indeed signed a three-year contract of 150 million euros to encourage the sedentarisation of the populations in their country and to avoid their tendency to come to Mayotte. At the same time, we agreed to put in place a genuine plan of action to promote the recognition of Mayotte at the international level. You will therefore understand that we are very eager to know what means are being mobilised, in particular through programmes 105 and 185 of the External Action Mission of the State, which contribute to French sovereignty in Mayotte. Beyond that, when, then, in accordance with the promises given, will the Mahorese elected representatives be able to initial with you this plan which we have all agreed to consolidate Mayotte's francity? We are many here, at least you and I, to accept the idea that Mayotte is indeed a department of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u140	But not everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u142	I understand that the amendment is an amendment calling on the Government to bring the international recognition of Mayotte, but we are discussing the finance bill here and you will agree that the problem raised is not essentially of a budgetary nature. The main purpose of the amendment is not to improve Parliament's information on the management of public finances but on the general tasks of our diplomacy and there are no specific appropriations for this purpose in the Mission's programmes. We await the response of the Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u143	Big subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u144	... but I invite you to withdraw this amendment, which does not correspond to the nature of what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u146	You are identifying, Mr. Member, funds allocated to Mayotte on programs 105 and 185. But Mayotte, as you regularly point out, is indeed a French department. On the other hand, with regard to the action plan for the international recognition of French sovereignty over Mayotte, which we have worked together, since you have been associated with its drafting and that of the framework document with the Comoros, you have recalled our joint actions in the process of accompaniment and development of the Comoros in order to set the population more precisely. Several measures have been implemented, and I would like to mention a few. A political-legal argument about French sovereignty over Mayotte has been drawn up by the various ministries and elected representatives of Mayotte, including yourself. It was broadcast on 1 December last year to our embassies in Africa, to the countries around us and to our representation in Brussels and New York. It is published on my Ministry's website, in the form of questions and answers, in order to enhance this position. In addition, the Department has put in place an alert system to detect, correct and respond to errors or misinformation that may be published on Mayotte. In addition, the decree establishing the outer limits of the territorial sea of Mayotte was published on 29 January 2020. Finally, an office of the departmental council of Mayotte was opened in the premises of the French Embassy in Madagascar, and I myself inaugurated it in the presence of the elected representatives of Mayotte and yourself. We will continue this action, in consultation with the departmental council of Mayotte, to prepare for the next conference on regional cooperation in the Indian Ocean area, to be held on 29 November in Mayotte. These guidelines that we have prepared together are followed with great vigilance, including in the development of the Comoros, although, as a result of the pandemic, we have some concerns about the obligation to be tested, which has reduced returns to the archipelago. Nevertheless, we have strengthened the testing capabilities in Mayotte, which would normally allow this temporary drop in returns to be addressed. That's what I can answer. I think that these remarks should give you the clarifications requested, but I am always ready to meet you whenever you wish, and not just in Madagascar.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u147	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u148	Given the information I have just received and the availability of the minister, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u149	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have completed the review of the State's External Action Mission. The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u150	After this vote, I welcome the support for the budget proposals that I have made. I would also like to respond to comments made during the debate on my department's staff. I speak solemnly, because this is the last budget I have the honour to present during the quinquennium. On many occasions, I have had the opportunity to experience the merits and commitment of those who embody French diplomacy on a daily basis. In your various comments, you yourself recalled their commitment, their courage, their determination and their effectiveness. I am aware of the talents of the ministry, but also of its fragility, as human and financial resources have eroded over the years. During the quinquennium, I tried to take the necessary steps for the restoration and pride of the ministry: the end of Public Action 2022, as well as the accompanying means – including real estate – that I mentioned earlier. Since last fall, I have been preparing a human resources reform that will benefit all staff and for which I have asked for 34 million dollars this year. As far as the Ministry's senior management is concerned, the reform is based on four main areas: opening up, strengthening training, generalizing professionalisation and evaluation, and boosting careers. I am very attentive to the articulation of this part of my reform with that of the high civil service, which was launched in the spring by the President of the Republic, and whose objectives are broadly similar. However, the decision to apply the reform of the high civil service to all the non-jurisdictional bodies comprising the senior management of the State, by replacing them with the single body of state administrators, and the fact that the recruitment was entrusted to the National Institute of Public Service (INSP), raised a serious concern – which I understand – to the ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u151	For the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u152	I understand this concern, as well as the concern arising from the extinction of the corps of Foreign Affairs Adviser and Minister Plenipotentiary. I understand the concern of the staff who made the choice of a ministry, but also of a life; They have rare skills and unique experiences. I also understand their concern for the future of their profession and their place in the service of the State. That is why I am extremely committed to ensuring that the Eastern sector, which is the most equal and open to diversity, continues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u154	I am also very committed to ensuring that staff who have joined the Ministry through the assistance of the Foreign Secretaries can maintain career prospects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u155	It's indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] Finally, I am also mobilized to ensure that the right of option that will be offered to the members of the bodies that have been extinguished is truly one: those who would choose to remain in the two bodies of the ministry must enjoy satisfactory conditions. That is what I meant here by paying tribute to all the staff in the department, whose availability and courage I have been able to appreciate over the past five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u157	We join in this tribute, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u158	Thank you for your important remarks, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u159	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for official development assistance (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 5); No 4526, Volume III) and appropriations from the trust account Loans to foreign States (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 5). Mr Le Fur, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u160	Minister, thank you for the comments you have just made, which will be read with the utmost attention and, in many cases, appreciated. It is up to me to present the official development assistance appropriations and, in so doing, to take stock of the development aid policy. This is the policy whose means have advanced most in relative value during the parliamentary term. Important commitments had been made at the governmental level with CICID (Interministerial Committee for International Cooperation and Development) and in this Assembly, with the unanimous Act of 4 August 2021 on programming for solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. What were the objectives and are they maintained? First, official development assistance will have to exceed 0.55% of gross national income (GNI) by 2022. It will reach 0.56%, so the commitment is fulfilled. As a reminder, in 2017 it represented 0.43% of GNI. Second, the share of bilateral aid will reach 65 per cent of the total. I was particularly interested in it, because it is important for France to act with its flag. Third, the share of donations in our aid exceeds 65 per cent to reach 67 per cent; It's a good thing. Fourth objective, for which efforts may still be in sight: the concentration of aid on the nineteen highest priority countries represents 32 per cent of the total. I think we can do better, but this rate has risen. The budgetary programming for 2022 reflects all this, with a very significant increase in commitments. I associate both budgets, yours on-line and finance: the first increases by 18.11% and program authorities increase by 24.7% if we do not include the increase in AFD's own funds, which obviously cannot be accounted for in the same way. I would like to highlight a few aspects that I believe should be given special attention, Minister. The first concerns China, which is on the list of countries eligible for ODA assistance, countries that count for our development assistance. But it is a great country, perhaps already the world's largest economy, operating around the world. There is an anachronism on which I would like to insist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u161	If de Gaulle heard you talk about China...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u162	The second point concerns the naivety that we often show, it seems to me. Within the framework of the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development), we have established the rule of untied aid: when we help a State, we cannot demand that this benefit our businesses. This rule was developed in the early 2000s at the time of mild trade and competition, which was supposed to be ideal. All this is far away: we are now in a competitive world. In particular, we are competing in official development assistance with countries that do not respect the rule of untied aid: China or Russia, for example, which are not subject to this constraint. There is something unusual about this: you have to be at the side of our companies. AFD sometimes supports projects that benefit Chinese companies: it even exists in Burkina Faso, Minister! I think it's totally abnormal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u163	Copying, copying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u164	I draw up a list of these errors in my report, in which I insist: we do not have the right to lose our businesses in these countries. I have in mind – I imagine you also have it, Minister – a company dear to the heart of the French, which is present in all the ports of the world, especially in Africa; His departure would objectively be a warning sign of a real decline in our companies. I hope that we will be unanimous in supporting the presence of our companies, including in Africa – this is obviously the Bolloré Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u165	We got it! He owns all the media!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u166	[[VOCID-19 Vaccines Global Access]] The third issue I would like to stress is vaccines. Our vaccination support policy is part of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. Various names, such as VOCAX, are now familiar to public opinion. As we have not been able to provide vaccines, we support the spread of vaccines from other countries. This is a good thing, since people in the poorest countries must be vaccinated. But, in fact, we mainly support pharmaceutical companies in the Anglo-Saxon world. This amounts to a considerable sum, in the order of EUR 1 billion – it still needs to be known.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u167	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u168	The particularity of Gavi is to support vaccines recognized by the WHO (World Health Organization), including the two Chinese vaccines. By supporting Gavi, we paradoxically support Chinese vaccines. According to my calculations, it is about 65 million euros that are paid by French taxpayers, while in Europe and France we do not want these vaccines! I would also like to highlight a real contradiction. The fourth point is that there is a need to create a more objective bridge between migration policy and development aid policy. Several countries, which we help a lot and which are our friends, do not play the game of official development assistance – Morocco for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u169	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u170	Countries like Mali, where our young people are being killed, do not follow the most basic procedures to welcome their nationals again, as we ask them to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u171	We've been asking them for this for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u173	There is something quite abnormal here, not to say scandalous. In any event, I note that the commitments made as early as 2017 are being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u174	Mrs Valérie Thomas, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u175	Mr President, Ministers, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations for official development assistance were particularly expected after the adoption of the law of 4 August 2021, which sets out the framework and guidelines for solidarity development policy for the next few years. Adopted unanimously on these benches, it is the result of a careful work of co-construction: progress has emerged in committee, both in the Senate and in the Assembly, in close collaboration with the ministries concerned. I do not, of course, forget the essential contribution of NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and civil society. The appropriations we are looking at are the first to reflect this and are part of a dynamic that began in 2017, which saw a steady increase in the amounts allocated to the Mission during the legislature. The commitments have been fulfilled. In this finance bill, the cumulative payment appropriations for the two ODA programmes increase by almost $1 billion compared to the initial finance law for 2021: more than 27 per cent for the 110 programme and more than 23 per cent for the 209 programme. In addition, the target of €500 million for humanitarian aid in 2022, set by the Interdepartmental Committee on International Cooperation and Development in 2018, will be achieved through an increase of over $170 million over 2021. Here too, the commitment is fulfilled. It is also required with regard to the return of the so-called poorly acquired goods, with the new programme 370. Commitments also met with a rebalancing of loans for grants, with priority given to bilateral aid and with an increase in the budget allocated to civil society organisations. Over the entire legislature, the appropriations of the Official Development Assistance mission will have increased by more than 70 per cent between the initial Finance Act for 2017 and the Finance Bill for 2022, which represents the largest relative increase in the state budget. This unprecedented increase will enable our country to reach and even exceed the target set by the 4 August Act of official development assistance of 0.55 per cent of gross national income in 2022. The goal remains, as you know, to reach the rate of 0.7% by 2025. It was a strong commitment of the President of the Republic and the Government, and it is held. In a nutshell, the funds for official development assistance provided for in this draft finance bill are firmly in line with a partnership policy perspective, which aims to combat global inequalities. I would like to draw your attention to a particular topic of ODA. With the latest draft finance law of the legislature and in a context of crisis which women and girls suffer specifically, it seemed to me appropriate to question, in my report for opinion, the policy of international solidarity in favour of the emancipation and equality of women, a major axis established as a national priority by the President of the Republic and set as a cross-cutting priority by the Act of 4 August. France has an international strategy for equality between women and men covering the period 2018-2020. It is committed to promoting gender equality in line with the recommendations of the European Union Gender Equality Plan, by directing its support towards projects with the criterion of equality as a significant or main objective. The Agence française de développement is now defined as a feminist agency. The gender criterion is present in the review of the projects it supports. It has also set up a fund to support feminist organizations, with a budget of 120 million for three years. Our country supports many initiatives promoting equality between women and men. He was, for example, one of the first countries to support Dr.Mukwege's fund – to whom I wish a speedy recovery. [[Affirmative Finance Action for Women in Africa]] It also supports AFAWA, an initiative to promote women's access to finance in Africa, in support of entrepreneurship. She is at the origin of the French Muskoka fund, which pays special attention to the health and well-being of women. At the international level, our country is present, inspiring dynamics, as illustrated by the hosting of the Génération Equality Forum, which was held from June 30 to July 2. We can now speak of a real feminist diplomacy of France, even if the challenges that remain are numerous, in a context that tends to threaten the achievements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, I invite you to adopt, with determination and enthusiasm, the appropriations for the Official Development Assistance mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u176	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u177	At the New Africa-France Summit, held on 8 October 2020 in Montpellier, the President of the Republic stressed the need to work in consultation with African youth and civil society, in order to accompany what is now agreed to be so-called investment in solidarity. Relations between France and African countries must now be balanced, thought and built in consultation with all stakeholders. In that regard, the fundamental role of the private sector in development should be emphasized. The 2022 finance bill we are looking at is a perfect reflection of this new momentum. It is partly the result of the ambitious programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, adopted a few months ago in the Chamber. Promulgated on 4 August 2021, it gave France a modernised and strengthened policy of solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. For the first time, it provides for precise budgetary programming and strategy, thanks in particular to the numerous debates and consultations held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in this House. A few months after its entry into force, in the context of an unprecedented global social, health and economic crisis, France is the subject of strong expectations from its international partners. The sequence of the finance bill before us is an opportunity to mobilize the necessary means to accompany the priority regions of action, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, the Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, the Gambia, Guinea, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, the Niger, the Central African Republic, Senegal, Chad, Togo and Haiti.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u178	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u179	Five thematic priorities have been identified in relation to sustainable development issues: combating inequality; combating climate change; education; equality between women and men; strengthening health systems. The global crisis that we are going through has shed new light on the issue of global public goods, which is central to the text. Thus, by accompanying the most vulnerable countries towards the reduction of fractures and the transition to more resilient, inclusive and sustainable growth models, we accompany and secure international stability. Indeed, combined with a lack of basic public services, conflicts for resources and food insecurity, inequalities are a source of latent conflict, undermining development prospects and fuelling a vicious circle, as stressed by the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian. Thus, the PLF for 2022 is part of the continuation of the increase in official development assistance appropriations; However, the objectives have been achieved, which has been welcomed by NGOs and associations. The commitment made for 2022 has been met, since the estimated amount spent on official development assistance reached EUR 14.6 billion in 2022, an increase of EUR 970 million, excluding the strengthening of the French Development Agency's own funds, i.e. EUR 150 million. The official development assistance mission's appropriations will thus have increased by 70 per cent, on a constant basis, between the initial finance law for 2017 and the PLF for 2022, the largest relative increase in the state budget. The budget for 2022 is characterised by the maintenance of the appropriations allocated to bilateral funds, amounting to 70 million euros, and by the increase in those allocated to multilateral funds. Funds for humanitarian aid amount to almost EUR 500 million, an increase of around 170 million over 2021. Credit through civil society organisations via the AFD window amounts to EUR 150 million. Finally, the commitment authorisations for the AFD project and the support appropriations for NGOs exceed EUR 1 billion. The CICID meeting in February 2018 had launched a dynamic aimed at raising France's accompanying expenditure to 0.56% of GNI in 2022: the budget appropriations that the text tends to allocate to ODA confirm this unprecedented impetus, in the continuity of the law of 4 August 2021, which provides that this figure will reach 0.7% by 2025. By making ODA one of our priorities, we are making it more effective, modern and more targeted in the context of a global health and economic crisis with dramatic social consequences for developing countries, as it weakens many populations, stressing the eminently humanitarian dimension of our interdependence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote the appropriations of the official development assistance mission of the finance bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u180	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u181	The multiple crises that the world is going through make visible the importance of solidarity development to support people in the face of inequalities. While we can only welcome the fact that the promise to increase the appropriations to 0.55% of GNI has been kept, the examination of this budget itself points out that a quarter of the world's population still has to rely on international solidarity. Extreme poverty has tended to decline in recent years, but the covid-19 pandemic has significantly reduced the maps. The consequences of the crisis will be considerable, greatly aggravating the difficulties that our development policy had already to solve. ODA has increased significantly in recent years; However, international budgets are still not sufficient in view of the upheavals that are shaking the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u182	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u183	The appropriations required to reach 0.7% of GNI have not been included in the programming law. We must continue to rebalancing bilateral and multilateral aid, amplify our policy of giving to priority countries and learn how to better support small projects. The stakes for the future are great, and France must be as close as possible to countries to help them adapt to global warming, protect them from political and security crises, provide them with quality access to care, enable women to emancipate themselves and support economic development accompanied by job creation. I congratulate the rapporteur for her attention to the situation of women. We must support women, support them on a daily basis in their fight against discriminatory policies, enable them to live free from sexism and violence, and guarantee them access to contraception and education. In short, women must be recognized as true engines of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u184	She's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u185	These are indispensable and unavoidable conditions: our partner countries must fulfil them very concretely, which is far from the case. Since the financial transaction tax (FTT) rate was set at 0.3% in 2017, its revenues have steadily increased, but the allocation cap has prevented ODA from benefiting. The non-allocation of taxes becomes a religion for Bercy. This is an unfair position with regard to the TTF, as it was created to combat extreme poverty in the world. The assignment allows contributors to understand why they are paying for it. I know, minister, that you are open to this, as you indicated in the Senate last April. [[Access to VOCID-19 Tools Accelerator]] NGOs report that France is not fulfilling all its financial commitments to several multilateral funds. For example, with regard to the Global Education Partnership, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria or the ACT-A programme, this mechanism aimed at accelerating access to tools to combat covid-19, shadow zones persist. In a budget table, the terms "paid" and "valued" appear, without knowing what is being paid or what is being valued. Recall that other European states, such as Germany, have gone far beyond their financial commitments, while giving doses of vaccines. Do the same rules of calculation and transparency apply to all European contributors? While the Janssen vaccine offers logistical facilities, its effectiveness in dealing with the delta variant has been heavily challenged. Have we taken that into account? What is the proportion of this vaccine in French dose donations? Finally, transparency is a problem. The difficulties encountered in tracing payments for ACT-A illustrate the lack of transparency and readability of budget documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u186	Exactly! That's the real question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u187	Once again, France – that is, AFD and the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs – is poorly classified in the global index of transparency. Parliament and NGOs expect a lot from the evaluation committee and the transparency exercise provided for in Article 3 of the programming law voted this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u188	We had to and still have to fight for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u189	What will we do in 2022 of these new laws? News obviously affects official development assistance policies. Sudan, which has benefited under certain conditions from a very large debt write-off, is shaken by a coup d'état orchestrated by the army. Turkey, which was the third country most assisted by France in 2020, once again confronted our democracy, threatening to expel our ambassador, in response to a legitimate request for the release of an opponent imprisoned without condemnation. I will mention the arrival of the Russian paramilitary group Wagner in Mali. As for the problem of consular passes, we have been advocating for several years, and we would have liked your membership earlier. Minister, we would like your insight on all these issues, particularly the implications for ODA. The fight against corruption responds to a very strong demand from our citizens; Without it, they cannot understand the significant increase in appropriations. France must live up to the challenges of development, both quantitatively and qualitatively. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will refrain from voting on the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u190	Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u191	We are gathered to review the appropriations of the Official Development Assistance mission. In line with the momentum from the beginning of the legislature, the increase is continuing. As early as 2017, the President of the Republic expressed the wish to place official development assistance, the cornerstone of our foreign policy, at the heart of France's priorities. By offering a new ambition to this policy, it was necessary to make it more agile, coherent but above all more legible and effective. Because, in a context of proliferation and intensification of multifaceted crises, the challenges of solidarity remain enormous, and the expectations of many international partners. In order to give us the means of our ambition, the President of the Republic set a target of 0.55% of GNI in 2022 for public aid appropriations, expected to reach 0.7% by 2025. In order to guide government action, the inter-ministerial committee on international cooperation and development had then renewed the objectives and methodology of ODA, defining its new thematic and geographical priorities. The fight against crises and fragility, the fight against climate change, the development of education, the strengthening of health systems and equality between men and women are all objectives that the new policy of French solidarity must seek to achieve. To endorse these priorities and to translate them into legislation, our Assembly adopted the Programming Law on Solidarity Development and the Fight against Global Inequalities of 4 August 2021. This great law, led to your initiative, Minister, will long-term mark those who have been involved in its development. It is a great pride for the Dem Group to support this budget, which recognises the fulfilment of presidential commitments. The budget path set at the beginning of the quinquennium was therefore fully respected with an increase of more than 70% in the appropriations allocated to the Official Development Assistance mission between 2017 and 2022, the largest relative increase in the state budget. As a first step, the appropriations allocated in the PLF for 2022 will help ensure that France's commitments to major sectoral funds are met. In this regard, it is worth noting the doubling of the contribution to the Green Climate Fund for the period 2019-2023, but also the increase of more than 20 per cent in the contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria for the period 2020-2022. Multilateral contributions are essential, as they direct the work of international organizations to the geographical areas and sectors that we consider to be priorities. The appropriations for 2022 – 500 million as against 140 million in 2017 – will also help to continue the momentum of strengthening the resources allocated to humanitarian aid. For example, voluntary contributions to UN agencies will continue to grow, as will appropriations for programmed food aid or the emergency humanitarian fund. The Dem Group will support the adoption of these appropriations, which attest to the coherence of the mission's budget and are able to meet the objectives of official development assistance. This action responds to a renewed political will and a reinforced ambition, which is part of what we consider to be our country's vocation, in relation to its history and the values it defends. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] In the uncertain international context in which the world is confronted and which contributes to increasing fragility and injustices in some countries, it is important for France to embody and show concretely the human and solidarity approach to international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u192	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u193	As my colleague Alain David pointed out during the examination for the opinion of this mission, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, official development assistance cannot be considered by ignoring the singularity of the two years we have just lived, during which the health, environmental, social, humanitarian and security crises which are still making matters more difficult have been intertwined. The pandemic has led to declines in development, leading to the loss of some 30 years in some countries or regions. While some African countries have adopted very proactive strategies to limit the spread of the virus, based in particular on their past experience in managing epidemics, their health systems remain very vulnerable, many of them lacking the necessary health infrastructure: a small percentage of beds per capita, limited access to a local health centre or clinic, and few or no intensive care units and breathers. Moreover, regional disparities and inequalities between countries remain significant. Finally, the fact that half of the world's population does not have access to safe drinking water and adequate health care further exacerbates these vulnerabilities. In total, official development assistance is expected to reach 17.3 billion by 2021, including the cancellation of Sudan's debt, and 14.6 billion by 2022. On this point, I would like to stress the need to continue our efforts to alleviate and cancel the debt of the countries most in difficulty. On the health front, we strongly defend the lifting of patents, in order to vaccinate massively the citizens of the world. Today, 820 million people around the world, including 260 million in Africa, suffer from hunger and 135 million people are on the verge of starvation, not to mention the risk of half a billion people falling into poverty as a result of the covid crisis. In this context, the Socialist and Related Group takes note of the continuation of the trajectory, with a view to achieving by 2022 the target of 0.55 per cent of gross national income devoted to official development assistance, as set out in the programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. Nevertheless, the examination of the PLF for 2022 leads us to make several remarks. First of all, the programmes 110 and 209 of the Official Development Assistance mission undergo a double movement, which may seem contradictory,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u194	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u195	...a contraction of payment appropriations of 290 million euros, on the one hand, and an increase of commitment authorisations of more than 1 billion, on the other hand, in total opposition to the PLF for 2021, built on reverse movements. In the end, compared to the PLF for 2021, the catching-up of commitment authorisations in 2022 did not compensate for the very large decrease they experienced in 2021, and the decrease in payment appropriations in 2022 offset the significant increase they experienced in 2021. The very significant increase in commitment authorities in 2022 is mainly due to the increase in multilateral aid allocations, which had fallen sharply last year, as a result of the end of the cycle of budgetary abundance of major multilateral financial organizations. It is therefore a catch-up effect and not a substantial increase in appropriations. The decrease in payment appropriations in 2022 is due mainly to the reduction of EUR 1.26 billion in AFD's own funds compared to the PLF for 2021. The clear gap between our country's desire to become a champion of multilateralism and soft power and reality is further compounded by the fact that our voluntary contributions to some international organisations, such as UNICEF – the United Nations Children's Fund – or UNDP – the United Nations Development Programme – are not up to those of some of our partners. As we know, there is an urgent need to give all our support to women and children around the world. Nevertheless, I note a positive point, namely the amount of appropriations for NGOs, amounting to EUR 125 million, in accordance with the CICID guidelines. In view of these many questions and uncertainties and in view of the efforts that must be pursued in a context full of hazards, the Socialist and related group will abstain from this mission, while welcoming notable efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u196	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u197	Official development assistance is a doubly crucial issue: on the one hand, it responds to France's commitment to promoting, through it, education, health, equality between women and men, the environment and peace in the world; On the other hand, it is an essential strategic vehicle for our economic, cultural and diplomatic influence on the international scene. It is with this conviction that the presidential majority mobilized during this five-year period all the means at the service of the rise of official development assistance. It is with the same determination that we will increase by a quarter the appropriations allocated to this budgetary mission in 2022. As early as February 2018, the Government placed official development assistance at the centre of its priorities. In accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, the objective of allocating 0.55% of our gross national income by 2022 to this budget line was set out in the Programming Act of 4 August 2021. It will be fully achieved in the context of the 2022 Finance Bill. The budget for official development assistance amounts to EUR 4.9 billion for 2022, almost EUR 1 billion more than in 2021. Thus, in line with the objectives we have set ourselves at national and international level, we allocate a budget well above EUR 1 billion per year to the French Development Agency, and the amount allocated to humanitarian aid reached EUR 500 million in 2022, i.e. EUR 360 million more than in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u198	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u199	These budgetary increases will also allow France to reaffirm its commitment to multilateralism and to secure its position in international organizations. For example, we have hundreds of millions of euros in large sectoral funds at the heart of the challenges of the twenty-first century, such as the Green Climate Fund, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Global Partnership for Education. But official development assistance also demonstrates our country's unwavering solidarity in times of crisis. Thus, in the face of the covid-19 pandemic, we are mobilising EUR 125 million for the ACT-A project and EUR 55 million for the Gavi initiative. Moreover, the finance bill for 2022 finally came to a solution to a problem whose complexity had paralyzed all previous majorities. Indeed, it applies the new mechanism for the restitution of ill-acquired property, created by the Programming Law. Through this tool, we will return to the populations concerned the proceeds from the disposal of property derived from the embezzlement of public funds by the leaders of foreign states following confiscations decided by the French courts. By directly financing cooperation and development projects in the countries from which the funds come, we guarantee that money comes out of the pockets of the spoliateurs to be used for the benefit of the local people. That is why the increase in the official development assistance budget makes sense. To those who still doubt it, I would like to remind them that it is also a central issue for France's interests: without a thriving consumer market internationally, no French exports; without a comprehensive response to the covid -19 pandemic, no fight against variants and therefore no exit from crisis; without fair return of ill-acquired property, no peaceful relations with many countries, especially on the African continent. All in all, the 2022 finance bill completes the constant effort we have made throughout the quinquennium for more ambitious, smarter, more sustainable and fairer official development assistance. Our efforts are better targeted, focusing on 19 of the most vulnerable countries and, increasingly, on Community and multilateral cooperation. Furthermore, the Group of the European People's Party welcomes the fact that sustainable development objectives are at the heart of this policy, as we argued during the review of the programming law. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In 2022, more than ever, we think and act in great measure to defend the education, health, stability, equality between women and men, the environment and the influence of France in the world. That is why our group will approve the appropriations for the Official Development Assistance mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u200	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u201	The mission Aide publique au Développement includes budgetary appropriations dedicated to development policy and international solidarity, directly led by the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. The year 2022 marks a turning point in international cooperation, particularly with regard to the adoption, in 2021, of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. French official development assistance has increased significantly in recent years. For the first time, it exceeded the $10 billion threshold in 2017 and is expected to reach $17.3 billion in 2021, including the cancellation of Sudan's debt, and $14.6 billion in 2022. It should be noted that the Mission's commitment authorities are increasing by 18%, amounting to €6.6 billion. This year, the novelty lies in the creation of the 370 programme, which covers France's commitments to the restitution of poorly acquired property. It will be provided as the proceeds from the sale of poorly acquired property are collected from the general budget of the State. If, in reality, it has no budgetary appropriations, we hope to see a development in the coming years. By setting the target of 0.55 per cent of gross national income by 2022, the President of the Republic made official development assistance one of the priorities of his quinquennium. However, we look forward to a clearer commitment by the Government on the fiscal trajectory between 2023 and 2025, recalling the fulfilment of France's commitments under the Addis Ababa Programme of Action. Setting ambitious goals is one thing, being linked to it is another. Thus, we always call for development aid to be conditional on the full cooperation of the partner countries with regard to the readmission of their nationals when they are not allowed to stay in France. The fight against illegal immigration must not be a taboo subject, because it is of major importance: we see it every day. While the allocation of ODA is not conditional on the involvement of African countries in co-management of immigration, it tends to evolve in this direction. This is an essential question, Minister, because if it is not possible to speak with friendly countries, we will not be able to discuss it with anyone; However, this subject must be put on the table, so that the target countries are truly involved. To combat illegal immigration, we must tackle what motivates departures: poverty, but also terrorism, devastating wars and dictatorships, which weaken and bring violence to the local population, whom we must help. Cooperation must come within a common European framework. To the extent that there is a partnership with ODA recipient countries, it is logical that the need to control immigration translates into a high degree of cooperation, especially since some States have the capacity to control their borders, combat smuggling networks or modernize their civil status. Official development assistance must therefore be mobilised in the context of reciprocal commitments with our partners: it is a powerful instrument that can facilitate dialogue between Europe and the countries of the South, provided that the interests of both parties are united without being unilateral. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will abstain from voting on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u202	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u203	For weeks, the majority has been boasting of a historic increase in the budget for 2022, for culture, for the interior, for justice: the message is hammered along plateaus and speeches. All indicators would be green, magic money would run all over, and everything would finally go for the best in the best worlds... A new example of this is the review of official development assistance appropriations, which should be applauded on a timely basis! Yet you know, like me, that we can make the figures say everything and its opposite, otherwise you would have had to restore the solidarity tax on wealth! This is the case with ODA, which includes, in fully legitimate aid, funds for the Overseas Territories, for the reception of refugees or for the training of military personnel. I would like to draw your attention to the eminently opaque role played by AFD, which in recent years has assumed its autonomy vis-à-vis the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Emmanuel Macron made a commitment at the New Africa-France Summit to change the Agency's name. Knowing his taste for banking terminology, which he shares with the current director of AFD, one can fear the worst, even if it will undoubtedly have the merit of sticking more to the reality of what has become AFD: opacity of data, recourse to certain tax havens through the famous subsidiary Proparco, support for extremely problematic projects, ultra-majoritarian recourse to French companies, massive use of C2D – debt and development contracts – these mechanisms that transform the countries' historical debts into new loans, usually for French companies... AFD may play the role of development bank too well, at the risk of sometimes focusing on its own development as a bank.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u204	It's extremely serious what you're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u205	De Gaulle described aid to underdeveloped countries as "very good investment", it is certainly not Bercy who will contradict it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u206	It's low!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u207	These criticisms of AFD do not come out of nowhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u208	They're coming out of Mediapart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u209	They are first issued by the people, to whom our aid should be destined, and who see, by suffering them, some of the pernicious effects of projects that we are financing. I would like to thank the NGOs for their work. They are also the result of journalistic investigations, such as the recent one by Disclose, entitled "The AFD Out of Control", which reports upbuilding testimonies. I welcome this investigative work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u210	You're greeting the tea towels!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u211	[[Mr. Special Rapporteur and Mr. Jean-François Mbaye protest]] AFD operates so opaquely that we – parliamentarians – are reduced to following the press and NGO reports to give us a real idea of its action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u212	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u213	I see that my remarks are a lot of agitating the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u214	They're not shaking us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u215	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u216	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...which is not surprising, because AFD is a very worrying subject. But I say again – it's important – that AFD has such an opaque functioning that we – parliamentarians – are reduced to following the press and NGO reports to give us a real idea of its action on the ground. I hope that the Committee on the Evaluation of Official Development Assistance will be able to carry out otherwise more rigorous work...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u217	If she has permission!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u218	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...you're right, Mr. Lecoq, if she's allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u219	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u220	I repeat the same phrases, so that they can reason well in this House! I hope that the Committee on the Evaluation of Official Development Assistance will be able to carry out otherwise more rigorous work on this issue. I note, in this regard, that we have tabled an amendment calling for an in-depth parliamentary report on the management of ODA, but it has been considered inadmissible, which is a pity and very surprising to us. However, it would have been useful to discuss the contradictions of aid which too often supports neoliberal logics, for example by favouring the agrobusiness sector rather than that of peasant and family farming. Finally, I want to have a word for the agents of AFD, faced for several months with a leadership that is trying to reform their status, to put down some social conquered – from the seniority bonus to the level of redundancy benefits. Trade unions evoke harmful social dialogue and obvious social regression. This step by step of the 2700 employees is strangely resonating with the orientations of an agency which nevertheless prides itself on supporting trade union organisations and which advocates everywhere the virtues of social dialogue: "Do what I say, not what I do", such could be its motto. As AFD celebrates its eightieth anniversary in December, I again express my concern about a structure that, by empowering itself from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to get into Bercy's lap, becomes a new wheel of the free trade carriage. We will therefore vote against this budget and would like clarification on how Parliament is likely to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u221	I would point out, Mrs Autain, that the inadmissibility of the amendments is absolutely not based on a political opportunity, but on a legal analysis. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u222	The budget for official development assistance for 2022 is increasing by EUR 576 million, bringing the total budget of the pilotable share of ODA to EUR 3.05 billion and to EUR 14.6 billion if total ODA is accounted for. You are right to be satisfied, minister, although, although this seems interesting at first glance, we must be careful. First of all, Communist MEPs say this systematically, ODA must become more transparent – our colleagues Bérengère Poletti and Clémentine Autain have also pointed out – and more readable for all. How can it be made clear when all pilotable and non-pilotable aids are spread over 24 different programmes and 14 different budgetary missions? How can we accept that only 3 billion out of 14 billion euros will be debated during the review of the finance bill? You know, however, that this opacity maintains doubt and erodes trust. This is all the more true given that such funding channels allow opportunistic and security-oriented pilotage. On the opportunism side, Communist MEPs wonder what confidence we have in steering our ODA, when we suddenly increase official development assistance in Rwanda, and that – probably by coincidence – the Rwandan army intervenes in Mozambique, in order to secure a region where the French company Total has strategic gas installations. What confidence does it have in the bank branch of ODA – Proparco – which lends directly to states and finances projects, while hiding behind bank secrecy when asked for accounts? On the security side, what confidence do we have in our development aid, while Expertise France finances military formations or delivers armoured vehicles to the armies of the G5 Sahel? Secondly, the increase in the budget in 2022 – as was the case for all previous budgets – conceals a policy of the figure, aimed at accounting for as many official development assistance initiatives as possible, in order to achieve the target of dedicating 0.55% of national wealth to ODA. I am thinking in particular of the ODA that we distribute, against all logic, on our own territory, which would represent about 16 per cent of total ODA. These include school fees – school scholarships for foreign students, financed by the State –, aid for migrants in France, and even some aid for our overseas territories and communities! Thirdly, while such an increase is positive, in the sense that it respects the 2017 promise, it remains below the challenges, particularly those related to the global pandemic, which has destabilized not only health systems, but also social and economic systems. Extreme poverty had increased by almost 20 per cent for the first time since the 1990s and, for the first time since its establishment in 2002, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria had fallen on indicators to combat those three diseases. The increase in appropriations does not even cover all the commitments made by the President of the Republic: close to 90 million euros are still needed to meet France's commitments for the Global Fund; of the 560 million euros mobilised in 2020 for ACT-A, aimed at accelerating access to tools to combat covid-19, only 160 million euros have been accounted for by the World Health Organization. Now, thanks to the opportunistic valuation of certain financings, you reach a total of 810 million euros, which amounts to manipulating the figures! Nearly 600 million euros are needed to meet your commitments. You have two options: to tell the President of the Republic to stop making promises that he cannot finance, or to deploy resources that match the commitments. In any case, France is losing credibility at the international level. Fourthly, the erratic management of the budget increase poses serious problems for employees who have to implement the measures. AFD is very clearly overheating, due to increased workload and internal reorganization, coupled with a reform of the status of employees. Yet everyone will tell you that it is impossible for a structure to grow at an extremely fast pace, while being restructured. The deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left have heard the warnings of the trade unions. Finally, do the same, minister, and resume a peaceful social dialogue. Make sure that our ODA rests on solid foundations, with reassured agents. These are the four issues that are problematic, which explain that France becomes an out-of-ground state, which is content with good figures, rather than good actions on the ground. Therefore, despite the increase in appropriations in 2022, which we welcome – it is very much to your credit, Minister – the members of the GDR Group will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u223	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u224	Official development assistance appropriations for 2022 reflect the commitments we have made together, within the framework of the programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome once again the unanimous vote of your Assembly; Beyond this common enthusiasm, it is necessary to weigh what this means externally, in particular with regard to the countries concerned. The fact that Parliament, both in the Senate and in the National Assembly, unanimously voted these guidelines makes it a strong law, as Mr Bruno Joncour said, and recognized as such by our partner countries. I would also like to thank Mrs Valérie Thomas and Mr Marc Le Fur for the quality of their work and their questions, and to tell them that we sometimes share their concerns. [[Protests on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] However, I would like to express my surprise to you: some of you, who abstained or voted for the law on 4 August, are preparing, to Toussaint – is it the fall or other concerns, of which I do not imagine they may be linked to electoral deadlines – to refuse to vote on development aid credits, whereas nothing has changed since 4 August and we are talking about the fight against inequality. No doubt it is part of political life!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u225	There's a difference between a law and a budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u226	In any event, Program 209 is in strict compliance with the commitments I made to you and on which you voted in favour. This programme will increase significantly to more than €3 billion. This effort will realize the President's commitment to allocate 0.55 per cent of gross national income to ODA in 2022, the first step towards the 0.7 per cent target by 2025, as decided by Parliament. We are therefore honouring our commitments. We will thus be able to do more towards our geographical priorities, namely the eighteen countries of sub-Saharan Africa that have been mentioned and Haiti, but also in five priority areas: health, climate, gender equality – I thank you. The rapporteur recalled this essential commitment – education, crisis prevention and the treatment of fragility. This programme will also allow us to do better, that is to say, to do with our partners in the South, and not just for them, in a fully partnership logic that must be that of investment in solidarity in the twenty-first century. If we ask ourselves about semantics, as Mrs Autain herself did, following the New Africa-France Summit held in Montpellier on 8 October 2021, I think that "solidary investment" is a fair expression. Several of you have referred to the situation in Sudan. We strongly condemned the military coup of 25 October 2021, which calls into question the political basis of the transition and thus the basis of international support. In this context, we called for the immediate resumption of dialogue between all political forces and for respect for the constitutional declaration signed on 17 August 2019, which is the only framework of reference for the international community. This country comes from far away and unfortunately there are huge tensions today. We are currently discussing with our partners all the implications of this situation, including development issues. I cannot say more for the time being because we are in an extremely fragile, volatile and serious situation. We are announcing very strong demonstrations tomorrow, Saturday October 30th. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, the bilateral component of official development assistance will continue to grow. First of all, it will be driven by the increase in the resources allocated to the Agence française de développement, under the project aid, i.e. the grant-project and the grant-NGO. They increased by 18.5 per cent and 10.3 per cent, respectively. These means thus reach, in payment appropriations, almost EUR 1 billion, without the Agency's remuneration. The strengthening of bilateral aid is also reflected in the maintenance of the resources devoted to the projects of the Solidarity Fund for innovative projects, some of which you would like to recall the relevance. They had been raised in 2021 and will be maintained in 2022 at the same level. Thirdly, humanitarian aid will reach EUR 500 million by 2022, in line with the target set by the Interdepartmental Committee on International Cooperation and Development in 2018. This considerable progress will enable us to live up to the crises that you have recalled and the disasters that are likely to occur in some countries. Funding for support for decentralised cooperation is also increasing, such as support for volunteerism in the framework of the France Volunteers operation. All these aids are bilateral, so that we will keep the commitments we made with the programming law of 4 August 2021. Our development action also responds to a multilateral logic, which France strongly defends, as I have stated on many occasions. The 209 programme covers substantial political and financial support for the United Nations development and humanitarian aid system and the vertical deep funds, through an envelope of EUR 782 million in 2022, which represents an increase of EUR 469 million over 2021, all in accordance with the provisions you voted in the debate on the law of 4 August 2021. These contributions contribute to the implementation of our major development priorities. Health is a priority for us. Our contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria will amount to €539 million in 2022, some of which will be covered by programme 209 and the rest by the Solidarity Fund for Development (FSD). In response to the health crisis, the French contribution to ACT-A will be considerably increased: an additional EUR 250 million will be mobilised, half in management 2021 and half in the 2022 budget, in order to contribute to ACT-A's objectives. However, the ACT-A device should not be limited to one goal, when it has four objectives: diagnosis, treatment, vaccine and support to the health system. We must ensure that the entire system is irrigated by the funding we provide. In reply to a question put to me by Mrs Poletti in committee, I would like to make it clear that, by the end of 2021, of the appropriations mobilised for ACT-A amounting to EUR 1.06 billion, EUR 935 million will have been disbursed, or 88%. [[Catherine Kamowski applauds]] Mr rapporteur, I have noted that you are questioning the financing of vaccines and how to act within ACT-A, VOCAX and Gavi. I would like to reiterate our commitment to ensuring that ACT-A promotes the autonomous production of vaccines in Africa. This issue will be addressed tomorrow at the G20, and negotiations are on track. France has contributed to the emergence of a vaccine production hub in Pretoria or Johannesburg; We initiated a vaccine production centre in Dakar, within the framework of the Institut Pasteur. A third vaccine production hub must emerge in Kigali, not only with the participation of Pfizer but also with the participation of the Ecotech group, which is from Toulouse and will contribute to this production in Africa. This is the condition for this continent to acquire immunity and a form of health sovereignty absolutely indispensable. The appropriations under programme 209 for Community cooperation through the European Development Fund are in decline because this European programme has been merged into the new European Instrument for Cooperation, the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Instrument. The NICI is not financed by the 209 programme, but by the French contribution to the European Union budget. The commitment made for the creation of a specific programme related to the return of "badly acquired property" is established in the organization of this budget: the 370 programme will be provided as the proceeds from the sale of poorly acquired property are collected. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the strength of the ODA mission with regard to my ministry, as you know, the 110 and 365 programmes being managed by the Ministry of Finance; you will have the opportunity to come back to these programmes as part of the discussion of the amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] As we put it together in the law, solidarity development has become an integral pillar of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u227	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u228	I am an administrator of the operator Expertise France, which allows me to respond to some of my colleagues that parliamentary control can be carried out within operators. We talked a lot about the harmonisation between Expertise France and AFD at the time of the law of 4 August 2021. I would like to go back to a somewhat specific question which is important to many of us. Expertise France has not been intended, since its reorganization, to act only in developing countries. You had outlined this mission before integration was effective. After the start-up and for the year 2022, can you specify how the missions of Expertise France that are not linked to official development assistance work?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u229	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u230	Integration work is under way; it must be effective on 1 January 2022. We must make the best use of the rapprochement, while preserving the specificities of Expertise France which deserve to be strengthened. We will ensure that Expertise France retains its agility, an intervention mandate that is indeed broader than that of AFD, as well as a separate thematic intervention mandate, which includes security issues in particular. This integration allows Expertise France to be better identified by international actors, as it benefits from the reputation of AFD. In addition, there are increasing synergies: the rapprochement has already reinforced the trend of AFD to assign projects to Expertise France. In short, we ensure that Expertise France retains its broad mandate both geographically and thematically.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u231	I call the appropriations of the Official Development Assistance mission, entered in statement B. Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendments Nos 814 and 813, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u232	Amendment No 814 aims to increase the appropriations for project aid, with the long-standing objective of the President of the Republic reaching 0.7% of GDP for official development assistance by 2025. Amendment No 813 is intended to abound the appropriations for official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u233	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u234	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion on these two amendments. Amendment No 814 aims to increase official development assistance. However, it has been noted that this aid has increased significantly since 2017. Official development assistance amounted to 0.56 per cent of gross national income, while in 2017 it represented 0.43 per cent of gross national income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u235	2017 at random!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u236	I choose this purposely date so that everyone understands what is happening, and in particular the deputies from your ranks: we have had a period when official development assistance was very weak before 2017; Since then, we can objectively see that we have collectively set targets and have them. With regard to Amendment No 813 concerning NGOs, the increases were also considerable: in 2017, the appropriations for NGO project grants amounted to almost 65 million euros, while by 2022 they will reach more than 127 million euros. As a result, these appropriations have almost doubled. I would have co-signed these amendments if that had not been the case. It is therefore difficult to agree here, and that is why I am unambiguously expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u238	Same opinion for the same reasons. In the summary statement of Amendment No 814 you say that we have considerably strengthened the bilateral component of official development assistance, since it will have to reach 65 % of the total ODA for the period 2022-2025. As the volume of donations increases, France is the fourth largest donor in the world: ODA has indeed increased from €7.7 billion in 2017 to €8.9 billion in 2020 – and you can measure the progress envisaged in this finance bill. As far as Amendment No 813 is concerned, I am also very committed to ensuring that NGOs benefit from the increase in appropriations. But that is the case. I would remind you that in 2019 funding for NGO donations amounted to €98 million and will amount to €150 million in 2022. This will be the case not only thanks to the famous civil society organisations (CSOs) window at AFD, but also thanks to the increase in funds dedicated to humanitarian aid. Thus, in 2022, in line with CICID's 2018 findings, ODA through CSOs will reach around €620 million, or 6% of bilateral ODA. Of course, this percentage remains low compared to that of other OECD countries, but when we consider the amount in absolute terms, we do not have to blush.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u239	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u240	You confirm, Mr Secretary of State, what we have been saying for the past few days: your policy is really unreadable. Your ultra-positive speech – and no one voted against the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, because we felt that it was creating a dynamic, that it was moving in the right direction – does not correspond to the reality as perceived on the ground by NGOs. When we reproach you for your lack of transparency, we do not accuse you of fraud or diverting anything, but we fail to find on the ground the concrete translation of the encrypted decisions you make. You have started your intervention with, let's say, geographical considerations; At the beginning of the Dutch presidency, Jean-Yves Le Drian, and in Bercy, there was a minister named Emmanuel Macron, who was working to tighten the appropriations. We must not forget, therefore, that the same people who, at some point in their political careers, tightened up their credits, today give up a little bit by explaining to us that, thanks to them, everything is fine. A little more humility is needed on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u241	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u242	I would like to join our colleague Lecoq. As I have already asked, I would like to know when the Government intends to implement section 3 of the Solidarity Development Programming Act, which provides, in the interests of transparency, for a report to be submitted to Parliament by 1 June of each year. I understand that because of the electoral deadlines this year is complicated, but I still hope that in 2022, whether before or after the elections, the Government will be transparent in submitting this famous report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u243	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u244	With this appeal amendment I intend to pay tribute to our companies working in developing countries. They are often criticized, pointed out, subject to litigation, while they are the flag of our country and are often subject to unfair competition. Indeed, they do not benefit from official development assistance since it cannot be linked, according to a rule set by the OECD, a rule conceived at a time when it was considered that free competition was beautiful, it was good, whereas it is often only an appearance: some countries say that they respect this rule when this is not the case – I am thinking of some European countries that I will not mention; other countries do not have to respect it, in particular China, Russia,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u245	It's protectionism, but in the eyes of Mr. Le Fur, it's communism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u246	They are now rich countries, which have a development policy and have become our competitors. My concern is that we change paradigms and that all companies respect a minimum of the rules of corporate social responsibility (CSR). We should certainly respect these criteria even more perhaps than we do – I am thinking of child labour among other things – but the countries that say they are contributing to development – in Africa in particular – must also respect them. We need these companies at a time when one of the main ones is the press, which is present in almost every port in the world, is likely to move away and be replaced by a company from another country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u247	It's his press that says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u248	So I'm setting an alert. Some French executives spend their lives in these countries, make sacrifices,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u249	They're not the only ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u250	...also, at some point, we must greet them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u251	Has the committee formally voted on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u252	[[Smile]] His opinion was not favourable, but he would.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u254	We understood that this was an appeal amendment, so let us call for its withdrawal. However, we share the concerns expressed by the Special Rapporteur. On all benches, I imagine, you salute the role played by French entrepreneurs. We have in mind the point you have just developed, and that is why, at European level, we are ensuring that discussions continue on the CSR criteria. It is not necessary to be naive... We will therefore take advantage of the French presidency of the European Union to continue to beat the iron, knowing that it will not be possible for us to go back to the OECD rule that aid should be untied. We will be relevant and vigilant. Vigilance is also the characteristic of the action of AFD and our economic diplomacy. We ensure that the opportunities offered by calls for projects are widely disseminated to the French economic sectors. It is essential for French companies to be able to apply for the project calls and to be able to carry out the work for which they have been selected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u255	Has the appeal for the withdrawal of your appeal amendment been heard, Mr. Le Fur?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u256	It is understood and I hope that what I denounced in my report will not be repeated: that AFD funds will be allocated to projects carried out by Chinese companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u257	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u258	I give examples in Burkina Faso, Mauritania and Sri Lanka. I doubt that the companies concerned are in full compliance with the most basic CSR criteria. Nevertheless, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u259	We come to the amendments on the additional article before Rule 42. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1353.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u260	The subject I'm about to discuss should bring us together. We are looking at ODA credits and, as such, we are in control. However, much of the development aid policy is in the form of loans. These loans are made by the country or by de facto banks supported by it, and there are debt abandonments when they are not honoured. None of this is subject to any control by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u261	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u262	We are completely unaware of this issue and this is not new. We control the Budget Directorate a little, but not the Treasury Branch. You mentioned the abandonment of debts for the benefit of Sudan, for example. Under no circumstances have we voted on it, whereas it is 4 billion euros – in comparison, we are dealing here with small sums. Of course, the coup that has just occurred has interrupted the process of signing, but it was to be completed in the coming days or weeks. I therefore hope that we will change our logic: we must look not only at budgetary appropriations but also at loans. I know that it is not simple because, often, loans – and even more the abandonment of debts – are made within a multilateral framework – the Paris club, the expanded Paris club... But I see that other parliaments, in particular Europeans, are otherwise more vigilant because they have given themselves the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u263	Yes, it is about how democracy works!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u264	The question goes beyond the appropriations of this single mission, but, given that most of the development policy is in the form of loans, we have no right to pretend to control them when we do not control them at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u265	Has the committee expressed its opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u266	She gave an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u268	The Special Rapporteur answered his question as he said what he expected before recognizing the limitations of his request. We share the concern to give all the necessary elements to Parliament. France already publishes a detailed presentation of bilateral direct loans by debtor country each year. This is a public data available on the Treasury website. The G7 countries committed themselves to adopting such a transparency approach for their direct loans by the end of the year. However, as far as future discounts are concerned, and you yourself mentioned this limitation, they follow ad hoc procedures and, above all, they do not depend solely on France, since the parameters are negotiated and decided collectively by the Paris club and a number of donors, according to the needs of the borrowing countries. Therefore, the amount of the rebates cannot be known in advance. However, I stress the progress of the law of 4 August 2021, of which Article 3 – Berengère Poletti mentioned it – provides for the submission of a report to Parliament. The 7th Article states that "the amounts of French official development aid passing through tied aid instruments, in particular loans from the Treasury and the study and aid fund for the private sector shall be included". The report that will be given to you – I refer here to section 14 of the Act of 4 August – will give better information to Parliament. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn and, failing that, I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u269	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u270	The Special Rapporteur points out a rather sensitive subject for the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He gave us the example of Sudan, but there is also the example of Côte d'Ivoire: a few days ago, €1.14 billion was donated to that country. The Committee on Foreign Affairs would like to monitor these types of operations in order to decide on their relevance, on accountability mechanisms and on the desirability of turning ODA loans into grants. I welcome the philosophy of the Special Rapporteur's amendment: let us work on the next report that the Government will submit to Parliament, with the aim of putting an end to decisions taken in ad hoc forums. This would cut the grass under the foot of some of our colleagues who speak of opacity and even mafia, by opening their eyes to the fact that the transformation of loans into grants by France benefits the populations of the countries concerned and falls back into the fold of ODA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u271	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u272	The vocabulary is important in the National Assembly: to my knowledge, no Member of Parliament has used the word "mafia" this morning. On the contrary, it is the parliamentary majority who uses it to describe the potential lack of transparency on these financial transactions. I don't use the term "mafia", but I don't know how to qualify the Paris club. While things are not going very well in some countries, particularly in Africa, this club bears a great responsibility. We should debate his action in the Chamber of the National Assembly and even the indispensability or otherwise of this tool, of this "thing", of this "thing" as an illustrious French politician would have said, for the emancipation of Africa: in my view, it is an obstacle to it. The Special Rapporteur is right to say that a democratic debate should take place in Parliament on these issues. In many European countries, parliament is discussing debt write-offs, but the French Parliament cannot debate the use of French public funds! It is still unthinkable, and it is time for democratic reform in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u273	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1354.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u274	This is a withdrawal amendment, which will allow us to continue our exchange. I love our Secretary of State, he's excellent! He explains that the items are published on the internet, but we are not here to consult the internet! We are here to deliberate and vote – by accepting what is proposed to us in most cases – but this is not the case. Let's be clear: since 1989, our country has given up 31.9 billion euros – the Paris club has been very active for a period of time, then the activity has calmed down for about ten years, but it is now going up, with the files of Sudan, Chad and Ethiopia. Everyone knows that the club is examining the situation in these countries, but there is not a single debate here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u275	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u276	What amounts are we going to give up? With what counterpart? We could discuss these issues, but that is not the case. There could at least be a report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u277	And a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u278	Everyone should agree. I am not aware of the conclusion of such a report, but that we are at least comparing our situation, as Mr Mbaye has said, with that of other European countries facing the same issues as we do. I do not condemn the multilateral decision of the Paris club – when you give up a debt, all the creditors must agree, it is valid internationally as for a merchant or a craftsman – but it is a deputy head of the bureau of the General Treasury that determines our country's position!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u279	A service manager, if you like!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u280	I say this for new parliamentarians, an office head, deputy director or deputy director of the Treasury has, on these matters, a power other than ours: either we are satisfied with it, or we look at things a little closer, hence the request for a report. That being said, the committee has not yet fully assimilated this need, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u282	On this subject, there is still one before and one after the law of 4 August 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u283	We're after the law and nothing's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u284	It's after, but the report will be discussed in June! Before June 1, 2022, you will receive a report that will contain the elements you are requesting and that will give rise to a debate in open session. You can, ladies and gentlemen, discuss this. In fact, we wanted the debate to be held in June, about the same period as the budget policy debate (BOD), well ahead of the review of the finance bill. This is a novation of the law to which we have all contributed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u285	This is the best time, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u286	Your amendment is satisfied by the law of 4 August 2021. What matters now is its implementation: we all have ants in our legs waiting for June 1. We will find ourselves in the Chamber – perhaps in this configuration, I hope – to discuss these important issues of debt cancellation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u287	The National Assembly will be closed on June 1st!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u288	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u289	The Secretary of State's remarks are important and can allow us to move forward. I forgot to say something earlier, which deserves to be stressed: the Special Rapporteur has said that we need to discuss these issues, but I have more than once called for public discussions on France's contributions to certain organizations such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We use our country, we give money, but national representation does not discuss it. It is public money that comes from the French tax, so we should at least discuss the French contributions to these structures as is done in Norway, the United States or Germany; This would increase transparency and raise awareness of the State's external action and of France's solidarity with these organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u290	Mr Special Rapporteur, do you maintain your amendment which the Secretary of State considers satisfied?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u291	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u292	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1553 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u293	It is intended to allow France to subscribe to the capital increase of the West African Development Bank (WADB), which totals $1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u294	And how much in euros is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u295	In memory, 1.2 billion euros, but the subscription will take place in dollars. The Bank's objective is to strengthen its capacity to respond to the development of West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) states. In the list of nineteen priority countries that France has drawn up, eighteen are in Africa. It is therefore useful and consistent with our priorities that France should maintain its position among BOAD shareholders. Our country will have to contribute €43 million: 40% are to be called, the balance being composed of callable capital; Under these conditions, the need for payment appropriations amounts to EUR 17.2 million between 2022 and 2025, i.e. EUR 4.3 million per year. You know everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u297	He's totally in favour. I cannot help but note, as the task of the Special Rapporteur directs me, that we will invest a little more money in the bank which manages the CFA franc: this does not disturb me, but I stress it since it has been said that we must withdraw from the CFA franc. The trajectory we have voted for the CFA franc does not apply because the countries of the zone have not agreed either on the scope of the future currency or on the name of the future currency or, let alone, on the arrangements for the production of banknotes which will replace those of the CFA franc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u298	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u299	Mr Secretary of State, the amount you are asking us to accept is, however, akin to the price of the acceptability of the reform of the CFA franc. The CFA franc area is the last area where the former colonizer still controls the currency. We could still ensure that Africa manages its own currency! But the funds you are asking us to endorse will contribute to the deployment of the reform of the CFA franc, desired by Alassane Ouattara and Emmanuel Macron, which is in the direction of a refusal to let go of the bridle. Yet African countries had agreed to build a totally African currency, freed from the grip of the former colonizer. It is important to support such initiatives: at some point, we must free Africa and leave its hands on its currency. Many countries on this continent show that they are able to manage their currency themselves, without the help of Western countries. We must work to give African countries their full independence and sovereignty, including monetary sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u300	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u301	You mustn't be the wrong target. The amendment concerns BOAD, which is not the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO). Moreover, we have not communicated enough about the fact that France has just transferred, as part of the reform of the CFA franc – for which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has invested – more than EUR 5 billion from African reserves to BCEAO, which allows this bank and the UEMOA states to strike their currency wherever they wish. With this amendment, we are strengthening the capacities of BOAD and supporting our African partners in their development efforts: this has nothing to do with the CFA franc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u302	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u303	As the Special Rapporteur has pointed out, the creation of the new currency, the eco, is slowed down because African States do not yet know how to integrate it into the space of the economic community of West African States (ECOWAS) and WAEMU. These questions are complex: I would remind you that the euro has not been achieved in ten days, so the eco cannot be created in one year. Let's not confuse subjects and...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u304	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u305	...support the Government's amendment, which aims to increase cooperation with BOAD in development projects in our partner countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u306	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u307	I regret that the debate on a contribution of EUR 1.2 billion – that is not nothing! – only arrives at the end of the debate in the Chamber. We have not even had the opportunity to discuss this issue in committee. This reinforces the impression that, since the beginning of the examination of the appropriations for this mission, there has been a lack of clarity. Where does this sum of €1.2 billion come from?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u308	The amount of €1.2 billion represents the total increase in BOAD's capital. France's contribution is only 17.2 million euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u309	Oh, okay, I didn't understand your explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u310	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor to support Amendment No. 986.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u311	This amendment by my colleague Mansour Kamardine, who, as a Maori MP, knows what he's talking about, aims to obtain a report from the Government on the allocation keys for programmes 100 and 209. This request underlies a very interesting question, which I mentioned with Annie Chapelier in an information report on the international environment of the overseas departments: that of the specificities of official development assistance which we grant to the neighbouring territories of our overseas communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u312	Indeed, the development of our overseas countries often creates very important differences with the countries close to them geographically. These communities appear to be rich when they are in very poor environments, which leads to social issues, access to care, or security. We know the example of Mayotte or that of Guyana vis-à-vis Surinam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u313	This request for a report therefore seems to me very interesting, because it would allow us to better respond to the specificities of the neighbouring territories of our overseas territories and possibly adjust the aid we are providing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u315	The committee has not considered this amendment, which I personally support. Berengère Poletti has explained this perfectly, some of our overseas countries have a relationship of proximity and comparison with neighbouring countries. This is particularly the case between the Comoros, which we support through official development assistance, and Mayotte, which does not benefit from this policy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u316	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u317	... while the two territories have very similar situations. To speak plainly, they both live in poverty and insecurity and lack development capabilities. Thus, the distinction we make between this overseas department and the Comoros in terms of official development assistance does not necessarily seem to me to be well founded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u318	Mayotte, it's France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u319	That's a great legacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u321	I understand the idea that Mansour Kamardine wanted to express and that you defended, Mrs. Poletti. However, I do not believe that the best policy is to increase the number of reports. Indeed, the law of 4 August 2021 already provides for the publication on 1 June of a broad report on, inter alia, official development assistance. I therefore propose that we do our utmost to include in it the data you request, provided that the methodology we have chosen allows us to do so. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn, failing which I will give it an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u322	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u323	It seems to me, Mr Secretary of State, that the report requested by Mansour Kamardine would nevertheless be very interesting for the next national assembly, which was to sit from June 2022, as it would allow us to answer many important questions posed by our fellow citizens. How can we help the territories close to our overseas territories, so as to reduce the schisms we observe in this type of neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u324	I therefore maintain this request for a report which, I insist, would be such as to enlighten the colleagues who will succeed us on these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u325	I call the appropriations from the trust account Loans to foreign states, entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u326	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1558.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u327	In order to take account of France's export prospects, it aims to increase by EUR 500 million to EUR 1.5 billion, the commitment authorisations entered in programme 851 Treasury loans to foreign states in order to facilitate the sale of goods and services contributing to the development of France's foreign trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u328	This is good news, the recovery is very strong at the global level, and many of our companies are well positioned. That is why the appropriations initially entered in the PLF for 2022 do not seem sufficient to respond to requests from foreign states for loans to import products from French companies – the Special Rapporteur mentioned their role earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u329	It is with some satisfaction that I ask for your approval to make this increase in appropriations, intended to support our exports in the fields of transport, energy and health, all sectors where, as you know, French expertise is no longer to be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u330	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u332	I do not hide from you that the committee was very surprised yesterday to receive this amendment. It is still intended to increase expenditure by half a billion euros, which is not nothing. That being said, I do not believe that you are responsible for this short period of time, Mr. Secretary of State, which is the responsibility of your colleagues in Bercy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u333	In any event, in substance, it is a good thing: we encourage our businesses and ensure that they are globally competitive. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u334	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1554 on the additional Rule after Rule 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u335	We referred earlier to the new debt and development contract we entered into with Côte d'Ivoire. The purpose of this amendment is to draw the consequences and raise the "Yaoundé ceiling", below which the Minister of Finance is authorized to grant bilateral debt forgiveness to the heavily indebted poor countries, the HIPCs. So far, this global ceiling has been set at EUR 4.75 billion: it is proposed here to raise it to EUR 5.78 billion, precisely in order to include the cancellation of a debt of EUR 1.14 billion granted to Côte d'Ivoire in the framework of the C2D which binds us to this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u336	As you know, under this contract, Côte d'Ivoire will continue to honour its debt service, in return for which the country will receive a grant equivalent to its repayments, in order to finance social programmes, urban and agricultural development projects, as well as support for governance, including financial support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u338	I am very much in agreement with this amendment, Mr Secretary of State. It represents a substantial sum – EUR 1,030 billion – and was communicated to us only yesterday, when it could have reached us before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u339	What's this about? Our authorities have the opportunity to grant debt remissions to certain states up to a certain ceiling, the so-called Yaoundé. This is now out of date, because the finance minister made an agreement with Côte d'Ivoire a few days ago – that's what you explained to us. I agree with this agreement: Côte d'Ivoire is a friendly country, whose development needs to be supported. We have made similar agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u340	However, we are only aware of the terms of this contract because the Yaoundé ceiling is crossed. I was talking about it earlier, and we are not aware of the content of the other agreements of this type. We are in ignorance, and only these special circumstances are causing it to be lifted. I am therefore shocked, both in terms of the substance and the way in which this data is discovered by the parliamentary authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u341	However, in order not to embarrass the Government in its relations with Côte d'Ivoire, I give a wise opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u342	Will you confirm to me, Mr Special Rapporteur, that the committee has not examined this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u343	She didn't have the opportunity, which in itself is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u344	[[Smile]] That's a good note. It is therefore a personal opinion shocked, but nevertheless wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u345	We have completed the review of the Official Development Assistance Mission and the Foreign State Loan Trust Account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u346	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1038.u347	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Review of the appropriations of the Research and Higher Education mission; review of mission appropriations State Council and Control, Public Authorities, Directorate of Government Action and Budget Annex Official Publications and Administrative Information. The meeting is adjourned.
