ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u2	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u3	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] My question is for the Prime Minister. I thank him in advance for allowing me to ask him about the health crisis: I can see that it is a rare privilege, since you and your majority decided, through an unprecedented institutional coup, to abolish the National Assembly's fact-finding mission on the management and consequences of the health crisis. You have done so against the unanimous opposition, with the exception of the two components of the majority, the groups that make up this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u4	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u5	However, we will continue to ask you questions, even if you refuse to answer them. These questions are those of the French. The latter are not "prosecutors": they are concerned about the contradictory discourses, hesitations and "at the same time" health that you and the President of the Republic maintain. My questions are about vaccination. Everyone knows that, in the face of the tragedy that has already taken over 76,000 of our fellow citizens, the only solution lies in a massive vaccination campaign. However, we are in dire need of doses: unfortunately, the figures you have announced are not valid on the ground. These questions are simple: how many French people will be vaccinated at the end of February, how many will be vaccinated at the end of June, and how many at the end of the summer? Is the figure of 4 million vaccinations by the end of February announced by the Minister of Solidarity and Health correct? What about the target of 70 million French people vaccinated by the end of August, put forward by the same minister? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] Finally, will you resolve to diversify the sources of supply and place a national order, not just waiting for European orders?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u6	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u7	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u8	[[Claims on several benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] A word first to remind you that I am here to reply to you on behalf of the Government, and certainly not on behalf of Parliament, which is sovereign in the organization of its internal functioning and its committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u9	That's right, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u10	I have responded to every convocation of the National Assembly's information mission, as well as to those of the Senate's oversight mission. I am also pleased, whenever I am convened by either of the committees of the two chambers, to report on the management of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u11	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u12	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have done so: for eleven months since I was a minister, not to mention my presence during the review of legislation or at the question-and-answer sessions in the Government, or other parliamentary arrangements, I have responded to twenty-three convocations of the Senate and the National Assembly to specifically answer their questions on the management of the current crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u13	You only did your job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u14	I will do so whenever it is deemed necessary by parliamentarians, because it is precisely my role to report to them on the Government's work. It seems to me that the numbers are talking. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] You raise extremely important points when you ask questions about transparency, or doses and deliveries of vaccines. Be aware that the data.gouv.fr website already provides, in open data – this has been recognised by experts, who are right to be interested in free access to information – data on regional and departmental deliveries, as well as the number of doses consumed. By this evening – or tomorrow morning, at the latest – you will also find the number of doses delivered and appointments made in each of the 1000 vaccination centres, not only for this week, but also for the next four weeks. In short: you will have as much information as I do and as all the French about the logistics organization and vaccination deliveries. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] At our last press conference, we announced that 2.4 million to 4 million French people could benefit from a first dose of vaccination by the end of February. I confirm that these objectives will be met.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u15	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u16	I associate myself with this question, which concerns us all, with my colleagues from the French who are established outside France and, more broadly, with all the members of our Assembly. This weekend, the Government introduced additional border control measures to curb the spread of new variants of the covid-19. This decision comes at a crucial time when, in order to control the epidemic, we all have to stand together and keep together wherever we are. The French living abroad have also been hard hit by the epidemic and its consequences. I would also like to commend the unprecedented urgent support that the Government has been providing to them since March this year. But they are deeply concerned about this decision to close the borders. So I'm making their voice carriers. With regard to intra-European travel, the principle of free movement is preserved and no certification is required: only a negative PCR test is required, as is also the case in some of our European neighbours. Can you confirm that there is no PCR test for cross-border workers travelling by land between their residence and their place of work, regardless of distance, as well as residents of living areas within 30 kilometres of a border? Extra-European travel, on the other hand, is now allowed only for an "imperious reason". Can you specify what an imperative pattern is and how it is appreciated? Hardly affected by the movement restriction measures taken since the beginning of the crisis, the French abroad fear for their right to return to France in order to join their parents or a loved one in difficulty. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These measures are temporary – as the Prime Minister reminded us last Friday – but our citizens need to be reassured. Can you clarify these measures and bring them perspectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u17	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u18	In the fight against covid-19, all French people are forced to travel, whether they are French settled in metropolitan France, French settled in ultramarine territories, or French settled outside France. It is true that, for several months already, the borders between the European area and third countries have been closed. If derogations existed, it had indeed been decided, since Sunday, to tighten this system in order to restrict them to the imperative grounds, because it was necessary to avoid any spread of variants, wherever they came from. In this context, I confirm that the categories you mentioned – cross-border workers and carriers – benefit from the adjustments you mentioned and that the French established outside France will be able to return if they justify one of the compelling reasons whose indicative list has been posted online. This list includes personal or family reasons, such as child care, assistance to the elderly or, alas, the death of a family member, but also professional or medical reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u19	It's really a phone call!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u20	Every effort is thus made to allow return when the necessity is real. In addition, Jean-Yves Le Drian and I have ensured, since the beginning of the crisis, that the French established outside France benefit from the accompaniment of consular services. This is very concretely reflected in additional grants or in additional appropriations paid to French aid associations established outside France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u21	What is an imperious motive, exactly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u22	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is very simple: the French established outside France are part of the homeland, and the homeland will continue to be at their side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u23	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u24	[[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds]] Who said: "There are goods and services that must be placed outside the laws of the market" and "We must relocate and recreate production forces in our territories. Health and industrial sovereignty will be one of the pillars of the recovery plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u25	Karl Marx!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u26	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u27	If the acronym remains the same – QAG – do I have to understand that the Government Question Session has been replaced by a Government Quiz Session?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u28	That's because the Government is not answering questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u29	I do not know the answer to the question you raised. As you have a chance to ask me a question – and I have a chance to give you an answer – you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u30	Ridiculous, Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u31	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u32	[[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It is regrettable that you do not know: it is President Emmanuel Macron, the same one who was at Sanofi's bedside to promote his research on the vaccine – I will not dwell on the controversy created by the fact that Sanofi, despite the aid received from the state, reserved its first doses in the United States. Balance sheet: Sanofi raised €4 billion in dividends in the spring, 400 posts are removed in research, the number of research centres in France increases from eleven to three, and Sanofi will finally have to help Pfizer put his vaccines in a bottle. Where's sovereignty? [[Same movements]] We urge you from the beginning to associate a therapeutic strategy with the vaccine strategy. Why has public authorities not put resources on the table to develop treatment? Why does France not have a public drug centre? She has to rely on the LVMH group, which financed the research of the Institut Pasteur in Lille! We depend on 80% of the imports of medicines, while we made the bulk of them 20 years ago. Where's sovereignty? [[Same movements]] The medical-social world is alerting again about the lack of masks. The High Council for Public Health recommends that tissue masks no longer be used in favour of surgical masks and especially FFP2 masks, which are the most protective. In the Hauts-de-France, the company Macopharma produces FFP2 masks, but France did not renew the contract expired on 28 December: the United States, Canada, Australia and Spain buy them from it, but not us! Where's sovereignty? [[Same movements]] The biotech company Yposkesi, a French flagship dealing with rare diseases and owned by AFM-Telethon and Bpifrance, will pass under the South Korean flag: you let it happen! Where's sovereignty? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Health sovereignty is the capacity of the State to ensure the health of its people independently. Where are the requisitions? When are we going to use the ex officio licensing mechanism to circumvent patents and make the vaccine a common good of humanity, produced on our soil? How long will France be humiliated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u33	Banana!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u34	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u35	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I like when you devote your time and energy to supporting the French industry rather than hitting it: it seems to me much more useful and productive. I have no doubt for a second that, when considering the next bill on the financing of social security, you will vote with us in favour of measures to help relocate the production of medicines in France and the tax credits necessary to support innovation and pharmaceutical research in France and Europe. I imagine that you will vote with us for all the measures to support employment, hiring and contracting, which are aimed precisely at ensuring that the large groups that have deserted our country – not for five or ten years, but for twenty or thirty years – want to come back. On the other hand, I very much doubt that a speech threatening these groups to take their licences and patents before even asking them if they agree to help us attract them. Rest assured: laboratories that have developed vaccines validated by the authorities are very happy to allow us to produce them on French soil. Four companies, which will soon be more numerous, already provide the so-called fill and finish – packaging – and will be entrusted tomorrow with the entire production process. This is the purpose of the work that the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and Bercy's services carry out on a daily basis with companies. This work pays off: it allows us to produce vaccines on our soil that are useful to the French, just as it allowed us to manufacture enough masks for the general public in a few weeks to protect the entire population, and just as it will soon allow us to be totally self-sufficient in protective equipment – masks, blouses or overblouses. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] It was this work that started. Support it from time to time by your vote, Mr. Member. You will see: it will change you, and it will be much more useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u36	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u37	Prime Minister, our assembly has been considering for several weeks, in committee and now in open session, the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, a text that was expected and that brings strong answers to fight against Islamism and separatism. As I have warned for many years against the growing influence of networks of radical Islam, I can only rejoice that we are finally taking the necessary steps collectively to combat it. Unfortunately, these responses alone may prove to be insufficient. Indeed, in order to win the battle, the Republic will certainly have to enforce the law but it will also have to enforce its promise, the one to which the President of the Republic referred in his speech of the Walls: to give every young person the same opportunity, regardless of his place of birth, name or social milieu, not to make any difference between all his children and to be at the meeting in all the neighborhoods but also at the end of the countryside. The great republican principle is to offer a perspective and a framework that allows everyone to emancipate themselves. This emancipation requires, of course, not only education but also training, work, associations and social life. That this promise be re-worded and kept was already the meaning of Grigny's appeal three years ago. Yes, secularism must protect our republic and the republican order. But our society will not get rid of separatist businesses unless it is able to provide an horizon for all its citizens. In this area, much has been done for so many years. Strong measures were announced on Friday at the city's interdepartmental committee. But in the face of our new challenge, we must redouble our efforts. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] My question is therefore simple: when, how and with what means do you wish to strengthen the fulfilment of this promise?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u38	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u39	Mr Pupponi, we know your commitment, which we share, of course, with the Government, to equal opportunities. As you know, the President of the Republic has spoken on this issue in the Walls by giving two strong impulses, the first being the bill confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, which we are discussing at this very moment in the National Assembly and which has been the subject of important work on the part of the deputies, particularly in the framework of the special commission, which I welcome in passing. The second, inextricably linked, is indeed the republican promise to ensure greater equality of opportunity. My colleagues Élisabeth Borne, Emmanuelle Wargon, Nadia Hai and Brigitte Bourguignon will have the opportunity, among other things, during this session, to answer your questions specifically concerning the measures taken by the Government of Jean Castex to this effect. As you mentioned, an interministerial committee in the city was held around the Prime Minister and the Deputy Minister in charge of the city Nadia Hai. An important €3 billion aid plan for working-class neighbourhoods was presented on this occasion. I can also quote from other measures: the creation of seven new republican reconquest districts because equal opportunities also means living in safety, whether you live in Sarcelles or in the seventh arrondissement of Paris; the naturalization of foreign workers who, by carrying out an activity during the period of state of emergency linked to the covid-19, were on the front line and who we decided to welcome into the national community as citizens; the recruitment of 300 specialized educators and the training of 300 mediators to reinvest the field; the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 announced by Jean-Michel Blanquer. I could also tell you about the additional EUR 2 billion of the new programme of the National Agency for Urban Renewal, ANRU; the Culture Pass promoted by Roselyne Bachelot; the establishment of 400 spaces France services in order to offer everyone access to local public services, a measure promoted by our colleague Amélie de Montchalin; the creation of 200 educational cities and boarding schools of excellence; or the doubling by the State of the amount allocated to the communities to support them in the creation of crèches. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, it is a strong, deeply inter-ministerial and long-term commitment on the part of the Government that will allow us to change things for the next generation in terms of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u40	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u41	My question is addressed directly to the Prime Minister. After the fiasco of the masks and then the fiasco of the tests, we are facing the fiasco of the vaccination. It is a unanimous cry of health professionals: the vaccination campaign in France is unfortunately a model of disorganization. But it's even more serious. Considered as the spearheads of the French pharmaceutical industry, symbols of the excellence and influence of France abroad, the Institut Pasteur and Sanofi publicly announce that they are no longer in the race for a covid-19 vaccine project at the same time as several competing laboratories are launching the certification of their products. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] And as if that were not enough, we have just learned that Valvena, a French company based in Nantes, of which Bpifrance is a shareholder, will produce a vaccine for our English neighbours rather than for France, all because your Government did not even have the idea of ordering vaccines directly from this beautiful French company. My remarks are a cruel reminder of the weakness of your Government's research policy. But if there is one area where we have to defend our sovereignty, it is that of research. The health crisis further exacerbates this abyssal absence of research policy. It is now nothing less than the credibility of the French State, not only with our fellow citizens but also with the international community, which is at stake. In this crucial period, how can you accept that the Director General of Research and Innovation, who resigned because of major disagreement with your Government, has not been replaced since November 25th?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u42	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question is simple: what will you finally take to ensure that France finds a research policy worthy of this name? Don't steal, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u44	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u45	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] France is a very large country of fundamental, applied and clinical research. You know that, Mr Hetzel, since you've been involved in research and governance issues since you've been a Member of Parliament for almost 10 years – you're even a specialist in these issues in your parliamentary group. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, let us not denigrate the quality of research in our country; It's our national pride. Nor should we denigrate the large public research organizations present in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u46	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] I did not hear you celebrate by cocoricos the day that this same Institut Pasteur, which you have criminalized in your question, was the first organism in the world capable – in just three days – of sequencing the genome of the covid virus -19, a discovery that he shared with the whole world. It's always the same: let's not talk about what's going on in our country, but put forward what can be used to attack our opponents. [[Brouhahaha]] I can't hear any more of the test fiasco when we've been the most tested country in Europe for months. It now takes 0.6 days to be tested, regardless of where you are in the country; it takes less than 24 hours in 95% of cases to achieve the result; and 92% of cases are called by the SRA or health insurance within 24 hours of the test. No country in the world records such performance. And you know what? It's free, no prescription and you do this test anytime you want. I'm sure you get this when you think it's necessary. Is this the fiasco in you talking? In that case, live the fiascos! I don't think that's one. Similarly, with regard to vaccination, you spoke of the unanimity of healthcare professionals. But what unites these thousands of caregivers is the fact that they work every day in vaccination centres, that they have set up, not fifty centres as in Germany, but 1,000 centres to ensure maximum proximity, and that they have already vaccinated more than 1.5 million French in a few weeks, a campaign that continues to grow in power. Once again, be proud of your country, of those who advance it, who seek it, who discover it, who create it. And when a research laboratory doesn't necessarily find a treatment right away, tolerate that you don't win every time. Be confident, we can do it. (Applause from the LaREM Group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u48	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u49	I will ask the Prime Minister two questions. First, Germany has just acquired monoclonal antibody-based medicines to treat people who cannot be vaccinated due to a medical contraindication. Does France intend to do the same? Secondly, this afternoon we will be aware of the recommendation of the High Health Authority regarding the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine, at a time when Germany and some other partners are raising doubts about its effectiveness for those over the age of 65. I imagine you'll take these doubts into account. In fact, I don't see who would want his parents or grandparents to be injected with an effective vaccine at 70%, while others are injected at 94%. The issue of the use of AstraZeneca vaccines is therefore legitimate. You have, I believe, already considered prioritizing them to caregivers under the age of 50. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] My question is simple, as our proposal is simple. In the face of student distress, on which the presidents of universities, psychologists and psychiatrists warn you – 40% of our students would be in distress – in the face of the situation we are seeing in our ridings, with those young people who, for nine to ten months now, have not attended a single course or reviewed a single teacher or even a single student, do you want, like us, that the AstraZeneca vaccine should be targeted primarily to students, to enable them to return to the university path, to return to a normal life and to catch up with the last semester?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u50	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u51	As you have just indicated, the High Health Authority will decide in the next few hours on the conditions of use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. As I mentioned here on 16 December, France's vaccination strategy, after consulting the qualified health authorities, is, as is the case in the countries around us, to give priority to the vaccination of vulnerable people, on the one hand, and the public at risk, on the other. As you have also said, and the whole House knows, among vulnerable audiences are first and foremost people over the age of 75, people living in EHPADs and USLDs, long-term care units – the first vaccination of these audiences to be completed, as I announced, at the end of this week – as well as younger patients with serious forms of co-morbidity. Among the audiences exposed are the caregivers. As you know, the vaccination of people in this category and over 50 years of age has begun. Let's wait until we know what the High Health Authority is saying about AstraZeneca. I agree with you that the decisions taken following the recommendations of the health authorities vary from country to country. You mentioned two countries where it was decided that this vaccine would be given to people under 65 years of age. I would remind you that in Great Britain it has been decided that it will be given larga manu to the whole population, sometimes by injecting only one dose, which also explains the vaccination performance of this country. It is a choice that has been made in Great Britain. This is probably not the party we will take.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u52	Presumably? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u53	Let us wait to know what the High Health Authority recommends. On the other hand, as far as students are concerned, I can say, subject, once again, to the recommendations of the HAS, that they are unlikely to be among the most vulnerable groups. Students are not the ones who develop the most serious forms of illness and – thank God – who find themselves hospitalized or in resuscitation services. On the other hand, I would like to join you in considering that the Government must give special attention to the students of France, whom confinement has placed in extremely difficult conditions. The National Assembly is well aware of the arrangements we have made, including the resumption of present-day courses, one day a week, and in the context of 20 per cent gauges. We scrupulously ensure that these measures are implemented on a case-by-case basis, on a university-by-university basis. Still about the situation of the students, which you care about, I will conclude by saying that one way to accompany and protect them is to develop even more, in a positive and intensive way, the strategy "test, alert, protect", which is not at all a failure as I have heard but on the contrary a great success...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u54	Ha! Ha! Dead of laughter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u55	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... and which, could be amplified by being applied to cohorts of students, to ensure, under even better conditions, the resumption of courses, a major issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u56	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u57	First of all, as Mr Veran said, let us not take Britain as an example for vaccination. [[Mrs Agnes Thill, Mr Raphaël Schellenberger and Mr Jean-Marie Sermier applaud]] [[Raphaël Schellenberger applauds]] Secondly, if the High Health Authority makes recommendations, you will make the decision. There are, of course, health priorities related to covid-19, but there are others related to the state of despair in which students find themselves. In this regard, I am not sure that the return to face-to-face classes on a day-to-week basis is sufficient to remedy the situation. I invite you to reflect on the following reality: this generation is probably the one that risks developing the least serious forms of covid -19, but it is also the most confined in France. How long do you think they'll take?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u58	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u59	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u60	Prime Minister, you announced Friday that you would not confine yourself to the responsibility of the French. On this last point, there is no debate: the French have shown exceptional courage and civicism. It was on your side that there was a failure. But trust requires not only efficiency, but first truth and transparency. First of all, what about the truth? I'm taking an example: the vaccination of caregivers. This is a priority recognized by the World Health Organization and you have just mentioned, among the most exposed, and therefore priority, caregivers over fifty years of age. However, I have a note from the Regional Health Agency of Aquitaine – my region – which announces that, due to the lack of sufficient doses, fewer health professionals must now be vaccinated! If so, what are you waiting for to tell our fellow citizens? And if that's not the case, you can imagine the confusion on the ground! Then what about transparency? It is the President of the Republic who decides everything, after having convened a defence council of which we do not know anything! The country has more than 700,000 deaths... It's time to say everything: who participates in this defence counsel? Tell us who, Prime Minister. The deliberations of this council, including the working hypotheses envisaged therein, should be made public: are you ready to do so? [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] You want the confidence of the French... First give them answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u61	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u62	First of all, with regard to the vaccination of caregivers, I confirm that caregivers aged 50 and over are a priority audience: since the beginning of January, several hundred thousand of them in the broader sense – as we have decided to include firefighters and home helpers as well – the majority have already received at least the first injection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u64	At the moment, the Prime Minister has referred to the opinion that will be given, at around seven o'clock fifteen to be precise – I am pushing transparency so far, Mr President – the CTV, the Technical Committee on Immunizations of the High Health Authority, on whether or not the AstraZeneca is recommended for people over sixty-five years of age, based on the data available at this stage. If this opinion was negative, we will have additional data by the end of February to start vaccination by targeting younger people, before continuing in March with older people if the data available for this age group corroborate this timetable which I believe is desirable. If we could not immediately vaccinate people aged 65 and over with this vaccine, the possibility of using it for all caregivers would be interesting and obviously to study. In any case, the answer will be provided within the week so that everything can be organized. I confirm the Government's commitment to continue to protect health care providers as a matter of priority because they act in the city and in the hospital for the well-being of our citizens, because our country needs them and they are particularly vulnerable to the risk of coronaviruses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u65	Answer the defense counsel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u66	Much has been said and written about the National Defence and Security Council. For having participated in some forty of its meetings, I can tell you that they do not look at all like the vision you have: it is a place for exchanges, for discussions, where ministers and experts are present. And I assure you that the documents on which their reflections are based are at your disposal since they are published every Thursday at the press conferences that the Prime Minister and I hold, be they curves, figures, statistics. I know that it is a human reflex to believe in these circumstances that we are being hidden from things, but it is not the Government's strategy: its strategy is the most complete transparency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u67	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u68	...including through open data when possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u69	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u70	Mr Minister, let us be clear: we Socialists wish the French state success in the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u71	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u72	In fact, we were the first to table proposals in the context of a draft vaccine resolution. I'm saying first! As early as June, we intervened on these issues! [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] But what do we see? Every time you speak publicly, the facts deny you! For example, you said that there will be four million French people vaccinated at the end of February, when there will be 2.5 million. Our fellow citizens are exhausted... The "whatever it costs" is the vaccine that needs to be applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u73	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u74	My question is to Mrs Nadia Hai, Deputy Minister responsible for the city. As we begin our examination of the text "Observance of the principles of the Republic", the holding of an inter-ministerial council of cities is a strong signal that actions will be taken in favour of the emancipation of the inhabitants of our neighbourhoods and a reaffirmation of the will of the Government and its majority to work for equal opportunities. Our city policy is the very definition of "the other leg" that the President of the Republic referred to in his speech to the Walls. Our majority work there on a daily basis; With several of my colleagues, I have put forward concrete proposals on education, employment, urban renewal and safety. Built with elected representatives and other local actors, these proposals reflect our territories and reflect their realities; They stress the importance of greater coordination of all and greater efficiency. Changing things is our goal, even in times of crisis! Thus, I have noted that you have announced the creation of an educational city for the Metz-Borny district, which I am very grateful for; This neighborhood where I grew up, where I learned a lot from all those people who gave me and my comrades their time sharing their experiences. It is because of them that I am here today to ask this question to a member of the Government. For too many years, the elected representatives have resurrected the renovation, but for many inhabitants, it is always the same misery behind the last layer of painting! We must demonstrate to the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods that there are not only two exits, the precarious or the street. Like the twelfth letter of the Greek alphabet, let us move our neighbourhoods, Madam Minister, so that their inhabitants may be proud to be suburban. This qualifier cannot continue to be associated with the proletariat,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u75	What do you have against the proletariat?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u76	...they are not doomed to failure. Learning, understanding and undertaking, to rise, progress, and not to be faced with these two issues. Let us not let them look elsewhere, where the answers to them will separate them from the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. - "Hello? Hello? » on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, I know we share the same goals. There is no better fight than that of re-establishing a nation and fighting against the inequalities of destiny. Dozens of measures have been announced last Friday. It is urgent that they be implemented. What are the main projects planned?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u77	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u78	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, we in this House are indeed a number of children in the priority areas of city policy. And I would like to pay a strong tribute to all those who make the Republic live there on a daily basis. The inter-ministerial committee to which you refer was held last Friday, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, in the presence of many members of the Government. The aim was to provide concrete answers. It was obviously very much expected of local elected officials, but also of the inhabitants and associations of these neighborhoods, and of you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would also like to thank all of you for your commitment to co-build the measures that I am presenting to you today. If participation is the nerve of war, co-construction is a reflection of all the discussions we have had for months. I would like to stress one figure: 3.3 billion concrete measures in favour of the inhabitants. It was expected and it is extremely strong. It is about supporting two ambitions. The first is to provide visible answers by giving a great place to the living environment. As such, EUR 2 billion will abound the funds of the ANRU – the National Agency for Urban Renewal –; the development of social housing will be regulated in these municipalities, which already concentrate too much; security will be highlighted – as the first victims of insecurity are the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods – through the creation of seven so-called republican reconquest districts and the recruitment of 600 social mediators. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The second objective is to adopt a new approach to city policy, a bottom-up approach, illustrated by the educational cities and by the employment cities, which gives all their place to the actors on the ground because we know perfectly well that if the problems can be the same, the solutions differ according to the territory concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u79	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u80	My question is for the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. On 17 February, on his return to Russia, political opponent Alexey Navalny was arrested for a Kafkai motive: the Russian judiciary accuses him of having violated his judicial control... because of his convalescence after an attempt to murder by poisoning, a method that is reminiscent of the poisonings of Alexander Litvinenko, Viktor Yushchenko, Sergei and Yulia Skripal, and many others. It is not my task here to judge Mr Navalny's path and ideas, but we can only stand up against the fate of the Russian opposition. So, what about the brutal police repression that has been taking place against the demonstrators in recent days, resulting in 5300 arrests? As a result of this case, France's demand to stop the construction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline has been much discussed, but it is true that this raises important problems of energy independence. My question will therefore be about the political response that the European Union, in particular France, intends to provide in the coming days and weeks. We have learned that the head of European diplomacy, Josep Borrel, will be in Moscow on 4 February and has asked to see the opponent to date in prison. We also heard last week calls from the President of the European Council, Charles Michels, for his release. I recall that last October the European Union issued some sanctions against Russian personalities and diplomats in the Navalny case. What do you get from it? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] But we must go beyond the balance sheet: what is France's position today? Is there consensus with our European partners? And in the light of this new episode, how do you envisage the future of Franco-Russian relations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u81	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u82	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] The collective and preventive arrests implemented over the last two weekends in Russia are arbitrary and completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u83	You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u84	I have already had the opportunity to say that France is seeing an alarming authoritarian drift from Russia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u85	Putin must be afraid of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u86	The arbitrary arrest of Mr Navalny last January confirms this and has prompted the mobilization of the Russian population that you are referring to. France calls for his immediate release and follows with great attention the proceedings that will be initiated against him today because it has been judged unfair by the European Court of Human Rights. France does not protest alone since all 27 are in the same position and we have all initiated a sanctions procedure in response to the poisoning of Mr Navalny in Russian territory by a Russian chemical weapon, and we ask Russia for the greatest transparency in this matter. The position of the twenty-seven, following the visit of the High Representative, Mr Borrell, to Moscow, will be adopted at our meeting this month based on the answers that Russia will provide. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Nevertheless, Mr President, France remains in favour of building with Russia the conditions for a relationship that will ensure security and stability in Europe. It must be recognized, however, that those decisions made by that country do not contribute to confidence or security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u87	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u88	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the current context, good news is never too much! And this good news comes from learning, or rather from a number: 450,000, the number of young people who committed to learning in 2020, which represents an increase of 19% in the private sector! Historical record in this national week dedicated to learning! A record that is all the more positive as we have managed to overcome the adverse effects of the crisis, and no one can ignore it, thanks to the Government's plan of massive support for learning. Indeed, the bonuses for companies – 5000 euros for the hiring of a young person under 18 years of age and 8000 euros for a young adult – have allowed the hiring of many apprentices in our TPEs and SMEs! With the "Youth, a solution" plan and the recruitment platform launched last November, young people can be put more easily in contact with businesses. But let us not forget that this dynamic is also the result of a reform, that of the law "For the freedom to choose your professional future" of 2018, which has made it possible to reform learning in our country and to make it a way of excellence! At a time when thousands of young people are wondering about their future, it is the chance to learn a job, a real springboard to employment! In addition, today, all sectors involved are recruiting, including those severely affected by the crisis. In addition, I am pleased that Mr Laforcade's current mission is now incorporating a reflection on apprenticeship in the field of older trades, as this will, I hope, remove the existing obstacles in this area in the field of medico-social. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. - "Hello? Hello? » on the benches of the LR group]] Despite this good news, in the face of the crisis, questions persist, Madam Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration. So, how do you envisage 2021 Madam Minister? How can we maintain this virtuous dynamic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u89	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, dear Fadila Khattabi, I know your personal commitment to learning, including during your professional career. In this learning week, I am therefore particularly pleased to be able to bring you good news. Let's just say it: 2020 marked a historic record for learning. This record, in a context of crisis, is unexpected: in 2020, more than 450,000 apprentices were recruited by companies, about 100,000 more than in 2019. I will present in a few days the detailed assessment of learning in 2020 and, by the end of the month, the data will be available for each department on the public action barometer. This good dynamic reflects the commitment of companies and their willingness to prepare for the future: when you recruit an apprentice, you prepare the skills you will need in two or three years' time. These very encouraging results, we also owe them to the law for the freedom to choose its professional future, adopted in 2018, which allows to lift the brakes and adapt training to the needs of companies. This law is to be credited to the Government and the majority. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, in July, the Government made the choice to place learning at the heart of the "one young person, one solution" plan. As you said, the premiums offered to employers have a decisive effect in encouraging them to hire an apprentice. In view of the health situation, we have decided to extend the aid until the end of March and, in order to succeed in the return to apprenticeship in 2021, a consultation will soon be initiated with the social partners and all learning actors to adapt this aid to the current context. Our learning policy is more necessary than ever and I count on you, ladies and gentlemen, to promote it in your territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u91	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u92	There's an emergency, our students are suffering. School drop-out, social isolation, precariousness, depression, suicides: the consequences of successive confinements and curfews are unheard of violence for young people. To the economic distress caused by the abolition of student jobs, there is a psychological distress caused by the discontinuation of courses at the university. In the Sorbonne, in the universities of Aix-Marseille or Côte d'Azur and in many IUTs, full promotions have not taken up any presential courses, despite the announcements made with great reinforcement of communication by the President of the Republic and the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation. The figures are alarming: 73 per cent of students are affected at the psychological, emotional or physical level; 50% are concerned about their mental health; 30% have already had suicidal thoughts. Green issues and one-euro meals are not enough,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u93	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u94	...the action of the Government must be more proactive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u95	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u96	[[Julien Aubert applauds]] Young people feel stigmatized by the Government, which teaches them the lesson and accuses them of organizing clandestine evenings To avoid sacrificing a generation, let us give a triple answer: let us consider a framed but broader reopening of universities, to avoid the drama of ghost students; Let us economically help young people in great precariousness; Let us encourage more companies to hire young people by reducing the burden. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] After forgetting them for a year, do not limit the future of the students. Beyond the very insufficient measures announced, what does the Government intend to do in practice to protect the young people of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u97	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u98	And sports at school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u99	I apologize for the absence of Ms.Frédérique Vidal, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, who is retained in the Senate. So I will try to answer you. No one can underestimate the problem that you have mentioned, since it is a problem on a global scale. Let us not pretend that there is no epidemic and all the problems it poses: in all higher education institutions in the world, distance education predominates. This, of course, creates the problems that you have raised and we can only share your concern. The situation calls for two categories of measures. First of all, the physical return of students to universities, in accordance with health rules, must be organised as soon as possible. This was stated by the President of the Republic on 21 January during his visit to the University of Paris-Saclay. As the Prime Minister pointed out, this return will be possible once a week for those who need it most, with a 20 per cent gauge. The presidents of universities and the heads of higher education institutions are in a position to establish health protocols to enable this return, which we shall gradually observe in implementation. Of course, in the coming months it is desirable to achieve this as much as possible: the Government, through the action of Frédérique Vidal, will support university presidents in this direction. Already, there are places where the return of students takes shape. [[Mr. Christophe Castaner applauds]] In addition, we must provide students with social and psychological support. Even before the health crisis, many measures – such as the upgrading of scholarships – were taken by the Government. Others have been decided to respond to the crisis, including the one-euro meal, twice a day, announced by the President of the Republic Do not underestimate this measure: it is important, tens of thousands of students benefit from it. Similarly, psychological assistance is fundamental: each student has three free consultations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] What matters now is to make a positive speech for young people. Let us plan for the future, as we do with the plan "1 young, 1 solution". Make proposals for a general youth policy
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u100	Sporty as a conclusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u101	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u102	Surrealist, indecent: these are the words of the mayor of Longuil, in the Seine-Maritime, in front of the measures relating to the school map. However, the health crisis that we are going through has revealed – as never before – the need for proximity and physical presence, as you have not stopped carrying it, but also of personnel with a human dimension, not only to respect the gestures of barriers, but also to give yourself the means to repair the social elevator of the Republic. But the feeling that we have everywhere in our territories – at home in Normandy, like in Seine-Saint-Denis, in Puy-de-Dôme or in Allier, as everywhere in rural communes or in popular districts where the disappearance of priority education areas has left orphaned schools – is that inspections are chalked. Closed classes, total hourly allocation removed in the second degree: a bleeding is in preparation, as if it were a matter of catching up, backwards, the pause imposed by the confinement last year. This bleed complicates our school inclusion efforts. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] While the families, the educational community as a whole and the elected representatives played the game to reopen the schools, while we are going to debate for 15 days the need to rearm the Republic, how can we not envisage a moratorium against any non-agreed class closure? In the face of the blackboard of the crisis that is destroying lives, sacrificing an entire generation, aggravating social and territorial inequalities, are you going to have – "whatever it costs" – the wisdom of giving up the bleeding of national education?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u103	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, let us avoid the outrageous words. How can you talk about bleeding? I'll give you two figures: next year there will be 65,000 less students in primary school, but more than 2,500 more jobs We're going to break the record for primary school coaching. So talking about bleeding has something indecent. The Government had invested the most in primary school in five years. This is reflected in the split classes. In your Seine-Maritime department, thirty-three positions will be created while there will be 1,000 fewer students. Of course, one can look on a case-by-case basis why one class closes and another opens, but the promise not to close a school without the mayor's consent is still valid. As far as classes are concerned, fine work is being done, which is not even finished at the moment when we are talking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u105	There was no consultation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u106	That's not true, Mr. Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u107	Talking about bleeding is obviously a political posture; If you want the school year to be successful in your department, we can talk about it perfectly serenely. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The means are on the table and they allow us to carry out several policies. The policy of the inclusive school continues with the Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, in charge of persons with disabilities, Sophie Cluzel: this policy will allow the creation of new ULIS classes – local units for school inclusion – as well as positions of AESH – accompanying students with disabilities – at the next school year. In addition, the duplication policy is now affecting the major kindergarten section. This morning, in the twentieth district, I saw schools in the most disadvantaged district of Paris that now have results comparable to those in the seventh district. That is the policy of the Government's primary school. How can you talk about bleeding when we manage to do what had never happened before? [[Same movements]] Finally – and this is also true in your department – we will keep the presidential promise of not having more than twenty-four students per class. So we have a real primary school policy and France will be able to put forward, for the first time, a budget for it up to those of the OECD countries that are comparable to us: it is a very great progress that we should be pleased to see, rather than caricature the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u108	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u109	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group. – Mr Ugo Bernalicis mimics gymnastics movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Minister is heading for a microphone]] Minister, your talents as a gymnast must not make you forget one imperative: to pause the measures relating to the school card. In an unprecedented crisis, parents, students and elected officials feel that this school map is disconnected from the realities and their daily mobilization. Your dancing skills must allow you to correct your copy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u110	Mr Minister, you probably wanted to thank Mr Jumel for the tribute he has just paid you, but your time has run out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u111	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u112	The expulsion of a tenant is a human tragedy that society cannot satisfy itself. This is very often the result of a life accident: a loss of employment, a family breakdown, a health problem. This is in all cases a failure, whether for the tenant, the owner, the public authorities or the associations. In 2020, following the health crisis, measures were taken to curb evictions through the two successive extensions of the winter truce. The circular of 2 July 2020 then laid down the principle that there can be no expulsion without a solution of rehousing or accommodation. These measures limited the number of evictions to 3500, compared to 16700 in 2019. However, if nothing is anticipated, nearly 30,000 evictions could be expected in 2021. With regard to unpaid rents, even if the observatory for unpaid rents has not, for the time being, noted a significant increase, I have had strong fears, for the months to come, about new audiences involved in evictions: traders, small business owners, self-entrepreneurs or young employees. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, it is essential to help the owners, especially the smaller ones, whose financial situation often depends on the payment of the rent. It is therefore necessary to increase the owner's compensation fund as of this year. In addition to the recommendations I had the honour of transmitting to Emmanuelle Wargon, Deputy Minister for Housing, last week, I would like to know what measures the Government is going to take to limit rental evictions and their consequences for tenants and owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u113	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u114	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The prevention of rental evictions is probably one of the most important housing issues for the coming year. At the outset, I would like to thank you for the work done and the report on the subject you have just submitted to the Government. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are going to treat 2021 as an exceptional year: the first decision of the Government is to extend the winter truce, which blocks rental evictions and power cuts, until 1 June next But we must also work to prevent and anticipate evictions that will eventually occur, to better accompany households, to open up rights to them, to find other solutions, to prioritize cases where action can still be taken, and also to compensate donors. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] And, together with the Minister of the Interior and the Deputy Minister for Citizenship, we will work to improve, systematize and accelerate the compensation of donors, because the tragedies of evictions concern both sides: that of tenants in great difficulty; the owners, who sometimes wait and need this income. Finally, we have to build. If the rental market is so tense, it's because we don't build enough housing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u115	You're taking money from the lenders!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u116	Give back the money, Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u117	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... especially not enough social housing. We're going to build more. I propose to the social donors, with Housing Action and the social partners, to build 250,000 in two years. This is an unprecedented challenge that we will face, which contributes to equal opportunities, to social mix, and to the strengthening of republican principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u118	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u119	My question is to the Minister of the Interior – who does not seem to be present. Invited yesterday morning on France Inter, he said: "Our enemy, he is ideological, he does not report to immigration – three quarters of the attacks on our soil were committed by French people – nor is he specific to a religion. The minister of the interior is right: our enemy, Islamism, cannot be confused with a religion. But how can he deny the obvious, the real, by claiming that this scourge, Islamism, has no connection with immigration? [[Protests on various benches]] His argument was heard: three quarters of the attacks on our soil were committed by French people. But the French he talks about, they mostly come from near or far from immigration, and he knows that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u120	Your words are outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u121	Why, then, not say it? To avoid amalgam, not to point fingers at any part of the population – and that is to his credit. But today, the French Muslims need to be protected from these Islamists, and contrary to what you say, it is obviously immigration that feeds Islamism, mass immigration, uncontrolled immigration, illegal immigration, and immigration that distorts the beautiful invention of the right of asylum. [[Exclaims on various benches]] So, please, let me not be answered by a pirouette against the far right: I am not on the far right,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u122	Oh, yes! Look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u123	...no more than xenophobic or racist: I am simply anxious to fight, like you, Islamism and therefore anxious to tarnish one of its sources, mass immigration. You have all rejected – and I am all saying so – the amendments that dealt with immigration when we considered the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] My question is simple: why this stubbornness to deny reality?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u124	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u125	The bill to uphold the principles of the Republic is a fine piece of legislation. You have debated it for more than fifty-five hours in committee and this work is intended to provide strong answers, concrete answers, not to throw anathemas and stigmatize part of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u126	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u127	You know that the terrorist threat in France is a threat that has varied and that today is rather endogenous. You also know that intelligence services are thwarting attacks – an average of one per month. The departmental units for the fight against Islamism and the community withdrawal, the CLIRs, on the other hand, act very concretely on the ground, action which can give rise to expulsions and which has already led to the closure of 20,000 structures and to reorganizations to the tune of 30 million euros concerning separatist organisations. The government of Jean Castex, on the proposal of Gérald Darmanin, Minister of the Interior, had the courage to dissolve the CCIF – collective against Islamophobia in France –, to dissolve Barakacity, to dissolve the collective Cheikh-Yassine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u128	Answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u129	The Government was acting against terrorism and radical Islamism. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, SOC and LT groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] But, Madam Member, I cannot let you make this unworthy link because, yes, immigration is also a chance for France, a wealth for France. Immigration is Kader, the cleaning agent who worked during the health crisis and who we naturalized: he is today our compatriot. Immigration is Rosa, a foreign-born caregiver, who worked during the health crisis, who saved lives, MP! Immigration is still Khansaa, the pharmacist we have also naturalized, which has become our fellow citizen, given her commitment during the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u130	We'll see in the elections...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u131	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the SOC and LT groups]] The work of the National Assembly, that of the Government, is to be concrete, to be serious, not to stigmatize. Yes, I repeat, immigration is a chance, a wealth for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u132	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u133	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] On April 4, 2020 in Romans-sur-Isère, on April 27, 2020 in Colombes, on September 25, 2020 in Paris, on October 16, 2020 in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine and finally on October 29, 2020 in Nice: five attacks and, each time, the terrorist came from immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u134	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u135	My question is for the Prime Minister. In the current context of health, social and occupational insecurity, signs of mental suffering are increasing among young people, with one third of them in a depressive or suicidal state. This phenomenon also affects a large part of the population, suffering from an alarming uncertainty about the future. Covid-19 has only a multiplier effect on a fundamental question: that of the soil of psychic disorders and their consideration. For several years, we have been alerted to the deterioration of mental health services. The report presented by Mrs Wonner and Mrs Fiat described a situation on the brink of implosion. In paediatrics, care periods now exceed two years and hospital services are overloaded. To respond to this distress, all professionals are mobilized and the place of psychologists is fundamental. In recent weeks, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has affirmed the need to use their expertise. The creation of 150 posts is planned within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, and the President of the Republic has announced the strengthening of university posts and the creation of a "Psych check". These measures, which are just the beginning, will not suffice. Delays in care and the explosion in the number of distress cases observed require a drastic increase in the number of care facilities and professionals. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Prime Minister, given the urgency, why does access to psychologists remain conditional on a doctor's prescription, while this unnecessarily increases access to psychological care in a context where many territories are confronted with medical desertification? As you announce the foundations of mental health, when is a great plan to meet the financial and human needs to anticipate a phenomenon that will grow?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u136	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u137	Last month, as you know, the Minister of Solidarity and Health made a progress report on mental health support policy. I myself had commissioned a report on mental health as soon as I arrived in Parliament – this sector did not wait for the health crisis to suffer. This milestone was an opportunity for the Government to reaffirm its concern in this regard, because, as you stress, the health crisis has led to a multiplication of mental disorders of a scale that we could not envisage a year ago. The President of the Republic hoped that the foundations of psychiatry and mental health would be held. Specific actions have been carried out in all sectors, in particular for young people and students. Support and listening to the professionals themselves have been deployed by the Government, along with the networks that have mobilized to hear from our fellow citizens. However, this concern has taken us beyond the health crisis which, in this regard, has certainly delayed some projects, but has accelerated others. The VigilanS monitoring system has been established in 14 regions and has already benefited 15,000 people. An additional €60 million was mobilised in 2020 to strengthen the provision of mental health care and, thanks to the Sécur de la santé, we are opening 160 positions of psychologists. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our roadmap has been enriched by the Segur of Health and we will adapt it, of course, to the context. VigilanS will be present throughout the national territory to contribute to the prevention of suicide. The call for projects of the organizational innovation fund in psychiatry will be renewed; The coordination of actors will be reinforced by a front-line mechanism, known as general practitioners psychologists, and the 104 territorial health projects you mentioned will be strengthened. Finally, I do not recall that a "Psych check" is now available to students in addition to the 1600 referent student jobs. You see, we're on the job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u138	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u139	My question is for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u140	He does not practise a profession, he has embraced a state, the military state, with the prospect, if the mission so requires, of the ultimate sacrifice: he is the French soldier. What was not our surprise to read, under the pen of Jean-Louis Borloo, a forum denouncing the conclusions of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the CJEU, proposing that the Working Time Directive should apply to the military as to any worker! It's only the Advocate General's finding, but it's all the same! To follow them would be to question our constitutional principle of "free disposition of the armed forces", to paralyse our forces whose effectiveness requires that they be available "at all times and in all places".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u141	This will make you pay them better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u142	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, we are not reassured by your treatment of the Matzak case law, which would require voluntary firefighters to apply the 2003 directive. It would endanger our civil security based on volunteerism. In the short term, the case must be dealt with under constant European law, with legal agility. In the long term, a major political commitment is needed. Poorly drafted, this directive needs to be reviewed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] So, Prime Minister, my questions are simple. What's your analysis? What's your plan? Are you ready to put this rewrite on France's European agenda? Don't let little gray men with no face and no memory despair those who have the radiant face of France! Fire helmet or heavy helmet, it's the same fight! For them, Prime Minister, make politics a European policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u143	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u144	The President of the Republic, as you know, has had the opportunity to recall on several occasions that the constitutional imperative of the free disposition of the armed force and its corollary, which is of course the principle of the availability of military personnel, are the guarantors of the ability of our armies to prepare and ensure the defence of the highest interests of the nation. As you said, in a case brought by Slovenia before the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application to military personnel of the 2003 Working Time Directive, the Advocate General has a literal reading of this directive and proposes to the Court to exclude the terms of the Treaties which reserve exclusive competence in matters of national security to the Member States. His conclusions, as you also said, do not bind the Court but have a value in guiding and clarifying the legal debates at stake in this case. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The position of the Government is constant and I would like to be very clear with you. France, now the only Member State of the Permanent Union of the Security Council of the United Nations, the United Nations, has outstanding defence responsibilities. It is constantly committed to ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens, whether through deterrence or through its external counter-terrorism operations. Its responsibilities and commitments are not contested by anyone in Europe. We want to build a strong and effective Europe and we fully trust the wisdom of the Court of Justice of the European Union to reaffirm the importance of the competence of the Member States...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u145	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u146	[[Applause on several benches]] Before giving him the floor, I am pleased to welcome Mr. Luc Lamirault, who became Member of Parliament for the third riding of Eure-et-Loir on 22 January, to replace Mrs. Laure de La Raudière.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to tell you my pride as a new Member of Parliament and my pride in being part of the Action Together group. My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. In 2018, the President of the Republic pointed to a collective failure in caring for the elderly and announced a bill to address the new risk of dependency. I am aware that the health crisis has delayed consideration of this text, but the urgency has not disappeared. Today, 1.4 million French are over 85 years old, and they will be over 5 million by 2060. However, the number of professionals serving the elderly is insufficient. These occupations suffer from a lack of attractiveness and recognition, making recruitment and management of staff very difficult. I want to pay tribute to their dedication here; They're on the front line during the crisis. We cannot accept that many seniors live completely isolated because of the lack of home help in our territories. As you know, funding is a crucial issue since the wages of home helpers, and more generally of older professionals, are very low. Parliament voted in October for a budget of EUR 150 million for this year, to which 200 million will be added next year, in order to raise the wages of home helpers. The objective is to increase them by 15%. Departments and associations that manage home helpers need to be reassured: how will they be able to attract more employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u148	We have to raise wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the group Agir ens and on a few benches of the group LaREM. – Mr. Benoît Simian also applauds]] By what mechanisms will they be able to implement this upgrading? What is the Government's road map in the coming months to deal with this emergency? The elderly, their caregivers and the whole sector are waiting for a precise timetable, which can be implemented quickly and in line with the creation of the fifth branch of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u150	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u151	Mr President, my dear Luc Lamirault, allow me to congratulate you on your assumption of office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u152	In this case, there was no by-election!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u153	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for your question, which first allows me to pay tribute once again to the home helpers who take care of our elderly compatriots. Their activity is essential; It will be all the more so since, as you said, in five years' time, the great age will affect an additional 1 million people, while another 100,000 people will lose their autonomy. So we have a big project ahead of us. We are working to meet the challenge: last Saturday I made a milestone on the action plan for the professions of old age and autonomy. We do not wait and our work is not suspended on a date, as it has already begun. We have worked urgently to strengthen the sector's human resources by mobilising Pôle Emploi and the RHAs – regional health agencies – from the medical and social institutions, so that they can recruit. The recruitment platform is bearing fruit; In particular, it has enabled the mobilization of students, which, according to the very intense exchanges that I have had on the ground, stimulates the construction of happy vocations. Such devices help to change the way we look at these professions. Their recognition will also go through the professional card, which they have been waiting for a very long time and which we are in the process of introducing. We will also launch a communication campaign to improve their image, adapt training to tomorrow's challenges by increasing their reception capacity – 16,000 additional places have been created – and we diversify access routes, including through learning. Finally, the salaries of these professionals will increase significantly, first in EHPAD, and then in home help, thanks to the covid-19 premium already issued and then to a cycle of historical salary adjustments, which I have committed by mobilising the €200 million envelope per year linked to the creation of the autonomy branch – as you have reminded us – which will complement the financing of the departments. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] As you can see, MP, the Government is at work to support these professions, and I want to pay tribute to his work with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u154	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u155	My question is to the minister of the ecological transition, responsible for energy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u156	Who's that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u157	...which is not present, but which decided yesterday to increase the regulated electricity sales rates by 1.26%, and gas prices by 3.5%. With regard to electricity, this will correspond to an increase of more than 15 euros per year on an individual's bill, while confinement and curfew also increase the consumption of French people. Your decision will therefore have a multiplier effect. The 2.6% increase in the electricity tariff for professionals also undermines the last competitive advantage of the French industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u159	Once again, the purchasing power of the French is struck. However, this year, 3.5 million households are already struggling to pay their electricity bills,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u160	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u161	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u162	... and 14% of French people say they suffered from the cold at home this winter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u163	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u164	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u165	These figures had never been reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u166	Turn off the heating in Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u167	By this decision, you add insecurity to the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u168	What about the Hercules project?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u169	The State should have refrained from raising the price of electricity in this difficult period for the French, especially since it is the choices of your policy that lead to such a failure: subsidies granted to unprofitable energies, colossal investments to compensate for intermittentity, financing of electrical erasure, distorted competition mechanism by which EDF must produce at a loss to its competitors, closure of safe and amortised means of production like Fessenheim. This is the first time a government has decided to raise the price of electricity to finance industrialists who agree not to consume at the heart of peak hours for fear of cuts, because we are not producing enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u170	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u171	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Because of you, the French are now paying for their electricity more expensive while at the same time being more exposed than ever to the risk of cuts. How do you intend to assume the reality of your energy balance?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u172	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u173	As you know as well as I do, it is the Energy Regulatory Commission, which is an independent administrative authority, which determines the increase in electricity prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u174	She's just offering!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u175	It's the Government's decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u176	You agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u177	This was set at 1.73%, based on an increase in production and supply costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u178	What about the costs of erasure?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u179	I'm just like you, sensitive to energy insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u180	The proof that you didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u181	Yes, households find it difficult to warm up in France. The Government is active in combating this phenomenon, for example through the Energy Check, which we increased the amount and expanded the number of beneficiaries in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u182	You have increased the number of people who need it! If you were to pursue a coherent energy policy, it would not be necessary to take such measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u183	5.5 million households now receive a cheque of up to 277 euros. But the main solution to this problem is to renovate, to carry out work to reduce the energy consumption of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u184	By keeping Fessenheim, we'd have cut the price of electricity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u185	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is the policy we are pursuing: thanks to the MaPrimeRenov' system, 200000 bonuses were paid last year and 2 million renovations were financed in two years by energy saving certificates. Only the renovation of housing will help to combat undue consumption and thus lower bills. This is what the citizens' climate convention calls for, and we will go further with the climate and resilience bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u186	It's your production strategy that leads to higher prices! That's the point I asked you about, and you answered next door!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u187	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u188	My question was to Bruno Le Maire. I see that he is not here, but I will be very pleased, Mr. Delegate Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, that you are replacing him. Bruno Le Maire yesterday made the following announcement to RTL's microphone: "We are making sure that there are no social plans for a bounty. If there are cases that can shock you, we need to report them and we will look at them very carefully. » I therefore bring to your knowledge, even though I have already done so here on several occasions, some of the social plans currently under way. In the collective restoration, Sodexo has paid €1.2 billion in dividends over the last three years but announces a social plan of 2000 posts. In the health sector, Sanofi received over EUR 1 billion in public aid in a few years, and the group paid 4 billion dividends to its shareholders, which does not prevent it from announcing 400 job cuts in January, in addition to the thousands that have been cut for years. In the agri-food sector, Danone paid its shareholders €1.5 billion in dividends in April 2020; he announces 400 to 500 abolitions of posts. I could add to this list TUI, Total and its Grandpuits refinery, Schneider Electric and others. If this can help the minister, I can of course send him an exhaustive list of these social plans by e-mail or fax,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u189	By fax?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...and I have the addresses and names of those responsible. He said he would ensure that such measures were not taken: what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u191	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u192	You're quoting companies that you know are not within my ministerial perimeter. Nevertheless, as Bruno Le Maire said yesterday – you will have taken note of this position expressed on several occasions by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery – the Government will be careful to avoid social plans linked to a boon effect. Of course, we will continue to pay attention to this, because we really want to avoid this phenomenon. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] You mention a few of them; we take note of this, we will act if necessary and we make every effort to support employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u193	It is not a question of accompanying employees, but of prohibiting dismissals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u194	... and help them find recovery solutions. Élisabeth Borne, Minister for Labour, Employment and Inclusion, has worked with the social partners to create tools for retraining and support in the field of training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u195	You're validating the social plans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u196	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thanks to the reindustrialization policy provided for in the recovery plan, we will also try to provide suitable solutions to the territories concerned in order to respond to the imbalances that you are reporting. You have drawn up an exhaustive list of which we are aware. We are trying to avoid these unfortunate dismissals and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u197	You're trying! It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u198	What are you doing for that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u199	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u200	That's the big deal. While the unemployment rate will soon reach 10% nationally and 80000 jobs are threatened by social plans, I do not think job seekers will accept your answer! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I will tell you what to do: we must ban redundancies by companies that make profits and tax capital to launch a major emergency plan against poverty. Last year, the billionaires shared 175 billion euros thanks to your gifts. If you are unable to hear it, I will give you an appointment on 4 February for the day of interprofessional mobilisation of employees. Hold your ear: their demands are going to be stronger and stronger!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u201	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u202	Madam Minister-in-Charge of the City, at a time when we are debating the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, which is aimed at combating religious separatism, I want to talk to you about another evil that gnaws our country: social separatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u203	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u204	Social mix, a promise of equality, calls for a proactive policy. In this regard, I would like to commend the action of the Government – yours and that of the Prime Minister – and the announcements made last week. Finally, we are going to put an end to the ludicrous legislation and the financial dust that is too often practised in the priority districts of the city's policy. Indeed, despite the enactment of eight important laws in forty years and an annual budget of EUR 10 billion, the balance sheet is not good. It is not flattering: whether it is in Montpellier, Marseille or in my constituency, in Aix-en-Provence, I see everywhere the failure of past policies, which have constantly destroyed to rebuild. But the social mix does not depend on the freshness of the painting: concrete is good, but the human is even better! While attractiveness is obviously linked to the quality of the living environment and the presence of public services, it must also and above all be economic. Our neighbourhoods are full of talent; they are an important pool of wills and energies. This is why entrepreneurship – that's not a big word – must be encouraged, because we know the effect of training and inspiration that a professional success can have. It is therefore necessary to change logic and make dormitories into "productive neighbourhoods", as you yourself mentioned, by directly bringing employment to them. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The announcements to be followed up, Madam Minister Delegate, how do you intend to strengthen and develop entrepreneurship and the economic attractiveness of neighbourhoods? What are the objectives that will have to be achieved by the "productive districts" and are they called upon to swarm in the territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u205	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u206	Like you, Member, I see the politics of the city as a policy at the service of the human in the heart of the city. I really believe that the measures announced last Friday at the end of the Interministerial Committee on Cities are in line with this, because they must help to promote the economic emancipation of the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods through a number of actions. The Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration, Élisabeth Borne, has promoted a measure that aims to strengthen Pôle Emploi's teams to put themselves at the service of employment in the neighbourhoods – 500 additional advisers will accompany the plan "1 young, 1 solution" and its declination on the ground. Then, as you pointed out, we must act on the attractiveness of the territories. Yes, these neighbourhoods must also be seen in terms of economic development. This is what we are doing through the "production districts" programme, which aims to resettle local businesses, but also by launching actions to relaunch entrepreneurship, in collaboration with Bpifrance and the Caisse des dépôts. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, if all this is to be translated into reality into the lives of our fellow citizens, we must change our method, as I said earlier to Mr Mendes: we must work with all the actors on the ground and take over the existing solutions so as to break away from a logic of arrangements to move on to a logic of accompanying each person in the neighbourhoods. That is the ambition that the Government wants to share with you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u207	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u208	Mr. Minister of Agriculture, this pandemic is not ending, and we may be close to a new containment. The agricultural sector was praised and farmers were thanked for feeding France during these difficult times. However, I would like to draw your attention to the major difficulties facing the meat and breast-feeding sector in livestock departments such as the Allier, where I am elected. Quality and food security are, quite rightly, constantly being promoted. In our country, the vast majority of farmers have understood this for a long time, and quality production is numerous. The closure of restaurants, among other things, makes it increasingly difficult to dispose of the so-called noble pieces, those that bring financial added value to the fattening farmer, and the prices paid to the producer are falling, the chopped steak becoming the main outlet. All types of animals are concerned, in particular broilers and bulls, whose prices have fallen: 100 to 200 euros are missing per animal, i.e. the farmer's income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u209	We must support the breeding in the Massif Central!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u210	In fact, those who have played the game of quality are not rewarded, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u211	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u212	This is the paradox I wanted to highlight. The Act for the Balance of Trade Relations in the Agriculture and Food Sector and a Healthy, Sustainable and Accessible Food for All, known as the EGALIM Act, was intended to make it possible to remunerate products on the basis of production costs. It's a real failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u213	Yes, no effect on prices!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Minister, without prompt action to compensate for these losses, many farms are likely to disappear and young farmers will often be the first and most affected. It is also the quality sector as a whole that is affected. What's the status of the commitments you made when you came to Auvergne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u215	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u216	[[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, LR, IDU-I and Active ens]] Allow me to take advantage of your question to convey to all our farmers the Government's thanks, which I am sure you all share. The breeders are very often pointed at, as in these defamatory campaigns which were still present recently in the metro stations. They have fed the French people and continue to do so, working an average of fifty-five hours a week, i.e. the busiest schedule in all sectors, as indicated by the data published last week by INSEE. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] At the same time, some are trying to discredit them. For my part, I am proud of them and I know that you are, as well as President Chassaigne, that I went to see in his beautiful department. Let's pay tribute to them! When I was in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes a few weeks ago, we agreed on a road map for the young cattle and broutards sector, the situation of which is very complicated. We are implementing this roadmap, knowing that it is not sufficient, particularly with regard to short-term prices. We must finalise its implementation, but also ensure that the EGALIM law is fully implemented. To do this, we multiply the controls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u217	There's a policeman missing from the commercial relationship!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u218	Consider that we are still informed of sales prices in large areas that are just at the level of farmers' cost. This is unacceptable! We will therefore continue to increase the number of checks. There is also a need to structure the sectors. Let us face the challenge of ensuring that local communities put the meat of young cattle on the menu of their canteens. It's a great meat for our children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u219	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u220	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] At a time when we are talking a lot about animal welfare, I would end by giving you this conviction: the best way to ensure animal welfare is first to look after the well-being of the breeder, let us never forget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u221	He's better than Didier Guillaume!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u222	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u223	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. André Villiers also applauds]] Thank you for your answer, minister, but it remains general. What short-term measures are you going to take to address the difficulties you yourself have recognized?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u224	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u225	This question, to which I associate my colleague Josiane Corneloup, President of the National Association of Territorial and Country Poles, addresses the Prime Minister. It concerns the green recovery and transition contracts, the TENs, which in some regions have been coupled with territorial pacts. These contracts, a merger of two previous contracts, were to be based with legibility and transparency on territorial projects. It is a question of translating the means available for the effective revival of the territories – which are in great need of them! – to promote sustainable territorial development. Yet, once again, we see a technocratic and bureaucratic drift, and even an excess of centralism, which may lead to a halt to the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u226	The country is dying of "technocratic"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u227	A circular of 20 November 2020 called for consultation with local elected officials and parliamentarians, which was done in a very uneven way from one region to another and from one department to another. The greatest vagueness exists with regard to project promoters, although the circular states that it is the intercommunities or their groupings that will be the bearers of these contracts. The territorial and rural balance poles – PETR – have not been mentioned, although they have been created to develop a strategic vision for the development of the territories and have, to date, largely proven their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u228	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u229	In addition, the 4D bill – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration and decomplexation – is still waiting. However, in the absence of real decentralization, this text should allow for differentiation. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] You who have carried out projects in the Pyrénées-Orientales, Prime Minister, can you specify the method of the Government for the success of these CRTEs that are so important to our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u230	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u231	What an honor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u232	[[Mr Jean-Louis Bricout exclaimed]] Your question, honourable Member, gives me the opportunity to address this important issue. You are quite right: these CRTEs, intended by the Government, are a means of benefiting the entire national territory from the effects of the recovery plan and the public policies of the State which it translates. They also aim to simplify the arrangements for contracting the State with local and regional authorities, in particular with the municipal block. Like many of you, the mayor and president of EPCI – a public institution of intercommunal cooperation – that I was still eight months ago was sometimes lost in all the arrangements that the state proposed to contract. So we wanted to simplify. I come to what is probably the main purpose of your question: what is the scope of these contracts? The circular to which you refer, which I personally signed, seems to me to be quite clear and to respond to a few principles, the first being the need for flexibility. In view of the diversity of the territories, we first asked the prefects of the department to initiate a consultation with the elected representatives and parliamentarians, in order to tell us which perimeter was most suitable for signing these contracts in their department. This step is over, and it gives variable answers. While it is true that the circular was aimed rather at EPCIs, some departments advocate PETRs or others. There is everything, provided that it corresponds to the territorial realities. Far from having a technocratic vision, we aim for efficiency. In the second stage, by the summer, we want all the territories so identified to have a TEN. The stakes are great. We have also invited the other levels of local and regional authorities who wish to take part. These contracts must also signal the will of the State's policies, particularly with regard to ecological transition, and that is why the annex to the circular sets out indicative objectives – I insist, Mr President – in order to verify their proper implementation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] Believe me, it's a tool that communities – and therefore all of our fellow citizens – will benefit first and foremost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u233	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u234	[["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you for your response, Prime Minister, but your services should clearly convey the message of the inter-territoriality and priority porting of these contracts at the strategic level of the PETRs and countries. Economic and climate emergencies require this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u235	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u236	My question is to Ms Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons. The crisis that we have been experiencing for almost a year obliges us not to forget any of the people affected, especially the most vulnerable. On 11 February 2020, the President of the Republic opened the National Conference on Disability by stressing the possibility for everyone to obtain a response and to receive support, in an approach that encompasses all aspects of life, with the establishment of a single national call number, 0800360360, and departmental response platforms in the context of the management of the health crisis. These devices aim to inform, listen to and accompany, in order to provide a response to emergency situations and people without solutions. You announced that, in the long term, 400 communities with such a system, 360 communities, would be created at the level of living areas in order to guarantee the unconditionality of the support to the needs of individuals and families, and thus to move towards a more inclusive society. You know my commitment to people with disabilities. We had the opportunity to discuss this during your visit, on Friday 22 January, to the departmental house of disabled people – CDMH – of Aisne, a department that has already fully adhered to this system. Thanks to the mobilisation of its various partners – associations, institutions, regional health agency – the CDMH de l'Aisne has, for example, implemented actions during the holidays of Toussaint and Christmas to ensure an indispensable respite for families, often exhausted. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of the 360 community deployment? What progress has been made and what feedback have you made on this scheme?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u237	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u238	You're right, this 360 community device is a real answer. On 8 June, in order to overcome the problems of containment and containment exit, we wanted to deploy this number, 0800360360. The aim was to respond unconditionally to emergencies of requests for respite or accompaniment to the care of persons with disabilities. To date, eighty-four departments have been connected to this number, and another ten are in progress. More than 16500 calls were received, from people in demand for very concrete answers. Nearly 40% of the callers – almost 6,000 people – are caregivers, who were able to be accompanied. These platforms are primarily a unique gateway to avoid misinformation, but they also provide quick responses and very concrete solutions by creating respite solutions, accompanying care or hospitalizations in these times of crisis that are so complicated for families. These 360 communities grow far beyond the telephone response. It is really a method of action of the departments and the CDMH, which are at the heart of the reactor, with the managing associations, the ARS and the actors of common law. The one of the Aisne, which we visited together, is quite unique because it was extremely reactive and cooperative with all the actors – and I would like to highlight the responsiveness of the associations. This is about equal opportunities. This reactivity is necessary in order to avoid loss of acquis and breakage of journeys. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This rapid and integrated approach is of paramount importance to families. All territorial actors share a responsibility towards these populations with regard to the need to avoid journey breaks. We owe it to people with disabilities and their families. This is how we change the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u239	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u240	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Walls on the benches of the LR group]] I just want to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for everything you do for people with disabilities. Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u241	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u242	Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, my question concerns the arrest of Aung San Suu Kyi and the military coup d'état in Burma on 1 February. I associate my colleagues with the France-Burma friendship group, which I chair. On Monday, the Burmese army arrested Aung San Suu Kyi, the head of the civilian government, as well as President Win Myint. The state of emergency was proclaimed for one year and generals placed in the main posts. The coup d'état comes after years of power-sharing between the civilian government and the military, still very powerful in the country. The latter denounce alleged electoral fraud during last November's legislative elections, which were won massively by the National League for Democracy. This coup d'état has generated many reactions around the world. The European Union and the Secretary-General of the United Nations have strongly condemned it, while the Security Council should, I hope, meet in the coming days. As you rightly pointed out, Minister, "the transfer of legislative, executive and judicial powers to the army is an unacceptable challenge to the democratic process that has been under way for the past decade. You called for the immediate and unconditional release of Aung San Suu Kyi, Win Myint, MPs and all government and civil society figures arrested on the eve of the opening of the inaugural session of the parliament. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and LT groups]] What voice can France stand firm in the face of this demonstration of force? What actions do you intend to take with our partners to work towards lasting peace in Burma?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u243	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u244	Mr President of the France-Burma Friendship Group, thank you for asking this question and alerting national representation and public opinion to the very serious situation in Burma. Mr. Win Myint, President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, and Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi were arrested together with other prominent figures. This coup is unacceptable and I have denounced it. We strongly call for the results of the elections on 8 November, the culmination of a long democratic process, which gave Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi a spectacular victory, to be endorsed. The Burmese people have expressed themselves democratically, they must be heard. [[Mr. Alain David acquiesce]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] At this very moment, at our request, the Security Council is meeting in New York, with the support of Europeans. The message that will emerge from it should be of great firmness. At European level, we have already taken action against the military authorities in Burma: two years ago, strong sanctions were imposed on some army officers who had organised human rights violations against the people of Rohingyas. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would point out that, in my view and in your view, the response to the Rohingya crisis requires the success of the democratic process in Burma. That is why, if the military authorities do not come back to their coup d'état, it is imperative that the European Union take new steps in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u245	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u246	Mr Minister of the Economy, it has been almost a year and a half since French wine growers suffered from a 25% increase in customs taxes on their wine exports from the United States. The Trump administration had decided to make our wine industry the collateral victim of the conflict between Airbus and Boeing, and this is clearly working very well. Wine, transport: two subjects dear to my heart, which we face today in an endless battle, to which neither Brussels nor Paris have so far brought concrete and viable solutions. Before leaving the presidency, the Trump administration announced on 12 January that from now on all wines, including cognac, as well as armagnac, would be taxed by 25%. This measure is likely to cost our country EUR 1 billion in revenue, while EUR 600 million has already been lost in 2020. My constituency in the Medoc has always had good relations with the United States. La Fayette, at the time, had left Pauillac to regain freedom. But the year 2020 was fatal: closure of the Ford plant, hard blow for viticulture... [[Applause on several benches of the LT group. – Jacques Cattin also applauds]] Minister, you opened the solidarity fund to wine growers and allowed companies to repay government-guaranteed loans on a deferred basis. If these measures allow our industry to breathe, they represent only one-off, short-term solutions that put our viticulture under infusion of public money. I would also like to know what discussions you have today with the new US administration to put an end to the commercial war between Boeing and Airbus, and therefore this baton against our wine producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u247	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food – and for viticulture!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u248	You summed it up: our beautiful wine and wine industry has been a collateral victim – that's the right term – of the unilateral decisions taken by the Trump administration in connection with the aviation conflict that has nothing to do with our spirits or any agricultural product.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u249	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u250	These taxes reduce the competitiveness of our exports to the United States and bring them down drastically. In the face of this problem, we have first of all, as you said, supported the industry with specific aids. The wine and spirits sector is dear to the Prime Minister; As soon as he was appointed, he took decisions on the financial aid intended for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u251	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u252	A few days ago, the Minister of the Economy, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade and I announced a strengthening of this aid. Secondly, we must achieve a de-escalation in our negotiations with the Americans, without being naive. We must show that we are ready to react while seeking appeasement. That is why the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery has already had a first exchange with the new Secretary of the Treasury and I spoke with the European Commissioner for Agriculture earlier this week. Finally, the European Union must also shoulder its responsibilities by financially supporting the sector. We have been asking the Commission for a year. Exchanges are continuing and we need to get satisfaction. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Thank you for your commitment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u253	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u254	Madam Minister of Culture, in 2018, the Government announced, to the general surprise, the closure of France 4. Planned for August last year, this closure was fortunately delayed by a year – a wise stay given the context of a health crisis, which allowed the group France Télévisions to achieve an unprecedented success with young people. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So I ask you a simple question: are you going, yes or no, to shut down France 4 permanently?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u255	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u256	The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has given you and Mrs Beatrice Piron a flash mission to think about improving the youth offer on the public television service. You recalled that the decision to arrest France 4 was taken almost three years ago. Of course, there was no question of reducing the availability of youth in the public service, but of thinking about a better, more diversified and more comprehensive offer. France Télévisions continued its work by diversifying, through a youth pact, the youth offer on all public service channels. Moreover, the public audiovisual industry has developed a digital offer through the Okoo and Lumni platforms, which are increasingly popular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u257	But it doesn't fill everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u258	Thirdly, we must guarantee the quality of creation in the field of animation, which is a factor of added value for the public audiovisual sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u259	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u260	We are making a significant effort with a commitment of €32 million to support the creation of animation. The public audiovisual sector is therefore very responsive. He also showed, with the creation in fifteen days of a new cultural channel, Culturebox, how much he could adapt to a situation of complex crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u262	This chain that offers a diverse and quality cultural offer is a real success. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the LR group]] The conclusions of the report that you will officially submit to me in a few moments are much broader than the mere maintenance of the France 4 channel, and I thank you in advance for the excellence of your work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u263	[[Smile]] The RPR is talking to the RPR!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u264	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u265	In fact, to close France 4, it is to deny the quality of its programmes and its usefulness in responding to a multifaceted demand. Thus, during the first confinement, between 300,000 and 1 million students as well as their parents met each day in front of the educational program "La Maison Lumni", which you mentioned, which was proposed by the channel. Close France 4, it is leaving a void that will not be filled at this stage either by the Okoo app or by the online platform. Close France 4, it is to achieve derisory savings that would amount to only 10, or even 7 million euros, or 0.3% of the group's budget,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u266	A savings of 32 million!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u267	...very far from the 40 million announced. Close France 4, it is aggravating the territorial divide by penalising the homes of the territories which have less good access to the Internet, at a time when a quarter of the households only have access to the audiovisual media by the TNT. This is what emerges from the flash mission on public audiovisual that I led alongside Beatrice Piron. Our report has come to a full consensus and I look forward to hearing your views. Would the decision to close France 4 be motivated by anything else, such as an agreement to recover channel 14? In this case, there is no objection to maintaining a youth channel on another channel. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, do not make this mistake with regard to our youth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u268	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u269	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u270	[[The meeting was suspended at 16.55 p.m. and resumed at 17.05 p.m. with Mr David Habib in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u271	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u272	The next item is the re-reading of the bill extending the state of health emergency (No. 3818, 3822).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u273	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u274	We are continuing today the consideration of the sixth bill on the state of health emergency. As the Minister of Solidarity and Health and I have repeatedly pointed out, the health measures that the Government has had to take since the first quarter of 2020 have fortunately led to a drastic halt to the spread of this virus, which is so damaging to our lives. The two periods of confinement that we have experienced, curfew, the wearing of the mask and, more generally, the limitation of gatherings, which everyone is responsible for, have allowed – and continue to allow – to avoid the saturation of our health system, in particular resuscitation services. Our daily concern is the respect of a necessary balance between the protection essential to save lives and the adaptations we take to ensure that our lives have more than just the name. Saving lives without life stopping is our responsibility, and it is immense. Protecting the most fragile, starting with our elders, is my duty and it is our duty to all, because fraternity is not an abstract word, just good to adorn public buildings. This is a concrete, daily requirement, and we have not chosen anything else since the outbreak began. The Government is fully aware of the sacrifices that everyone has made to enable us to hold together. Everyone's efforts have helped to avoid the worst. However, this epidemic continues to plague the world, and our country is not spared. If the last steps we have taken have borne fruit, the emergence of new variants changes the situation. It makes us fear a faster, harder-to-control viral circulation. We must be able to deal with it fully, so as not to create an epidemic in the epidemic. That is why it seems essential to arm ourselves in the face of this growing threat. To combat these variants, our response includes a significant increase in sequencing capabilities and the deployment of PCR kits screening known variants to date, a strengthening of contact tracing measures during all investigations of suspected or confirmed cases, as well as actions to strengthen isolation, with the intervention of nurses at home in positive cases with variants. The state of emergency has been declared a state of health since 17 October 2020 throughout the national territory and, at the request of the Government, was extended by the Parliament until 16 February 2021 by the Act of 14 November last. Despite these efforts, the health situation remains worrying and the foreseeable evolution of the covid -19 epidemic leads us to ask the legislator for an extension of the state of emergency until 1 June 2021. This date has been debated and, while it is of course regrettable that the two chambers have not been able to reach an agreement, I also understand what has been fully mobilised by you at the Joint Committee meeting. I welcome the position of your Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, which allows the Government to act in a position of responsibility up to this deadline, and which seeks to be balanced in terms of the current situation and what it implies. These choices are never easy. Such decisions are not taken without fully measuring them in all their health, social and economic dimensions – humans in short. It is still this imperative of responsibility, which we owe to the French, which urges us to take all possible measures to ensure that confinement is no more than a measure of last resort to save our hospital capacities and prevent the lives of our fellow citizens from being put at risk. I want to say to the French and their representatives present here that I measure their fatigue – I fully share it – but also that the brutality of the crisis imposes on us measures that no one would have imagined having to take in the most difficult perspectives, because, yes, what we are living today was unthinkable a year ago. It is in the light of these elements that I welcome the work of the Law Commission to review the main measures enabling the Government to act in a responsible manner. I am thinking in particular of the restoration of the end date of the state of health emergency on 1 June 2021. We all want this exceptional regime to be as brief as possible, but we need to be able to act. In the same way, I welcome the re-establishment by the Law Committee of the deadline for the end of the implementation of the information systems to combat the epidemic by 31 December next. This additional period will allow us to deal with any eventuality, but also, technically and scientifically, to measure all the developments taking place to date. In concrete terms, these tools now allow more than 93% of index cases and 85% of contact cases to be joined within 24 hours by health insurance. It's important. Again, therefore, the Government wishes to set a course, which we revise as the situation evolves, but which gives a deadline, a direction. This is a democratic issue, and we are committed to it. However, the evolution of the situation has forced us to gradually postpone this deadline. We would have done well, you, me, all of us here, like the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u275	We can protect the French without putting the country under a bell!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u276	Moreover, this deadline still allows you, as you do every week, but also, in a more developed way, as part of the monitoring sessions of the Government's action, to enquire about the motivation of the choices made by it – which is a twofold saving: it allows you, on a democratic level, to fully and freely exercise your responsibilities, and it also allows us to recall what guides our choices and our permanent concern to guarantee the protection of the health of the French. The need to equip our country in the face of other possible epidemics of the same scale, or even more serious – as you know, and we have had the opportunity to say and recall – is imperative. However, everything has to come in time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u277	Time's running out for the vaccines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u278	Ours is in action every hour of every day to stop the epidemic. We will have the opportunity, once this one is behind us, to take stock of the state of emergency health regime...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u279	To evaluate, we did not have to dissolve the fact-finding mission on the management of the epidemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u280	Indeed, the dissolution of the fact-finding mission will not facilitate the task. And it's not very transparent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u281	... and to bring to it, with a look enriched by our experiences, the necessary and appropriate adjustments to have the most appropriate tool possible in the face of a situation of this nature. Ladies and gentlemen, as the debates on the new reading open, I thank you for the work that has been going on for almost a year. Our concern, which is constantly shared, is that parliamentary democracy continues to be in full swing, in the interests of our fellow citizens alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u282	CQFD, as we saw with the dissolution of the information mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Together, let us continue to move forward in responsibility to get out of the state of emergency regime as quickly as possible by protecting our loved ones and reconnecting, when conditions permit, with this art of living that characterizes us and that we miss each day more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u284	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u285	Who, in December 2019, would have predicted what the French have been going through for a year: a first wave, a second wave or even a third threatening wave, mutations of the virus, confinements, curfews, and the salvative arrival, in less than a year, of vaccines? Who could have foreseen such a scenario? No one. On the other hand, as with the virus, the French were entitled to an avalanche of "there's only, we have to".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u286	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u287	So, with modesty and humility, who can predict what awaits us this year? There again, no one. We must sail on sight despite the storm, adapt the fight against the virus to the latest information from hospitals, day by day, with the impossibility of any valid anticipation. What is certain is that more or less strict containment and vaccine are, to date, the only truly effective bulwarks against the virus. Since the end of December, vaccination has been under way. It is logically adapted to the vulnerability of different segments of the population. Of course, its progress is hampered by unforeseen delays in supply due both to constraints on the production and delivery of laboratories and, in my opinion, also to the bureaucratic technocracy in Brussels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u288	At last, a truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u289	As for confinement, whether it is necessary to put in place or not according to the situation at the moment, I will allow myself to compare it to a tap: if we close it thoroughly, it is very effective in epidemiological terms, but dangerous in economic terms and for the psychological fatigue of the population; If, on the contrary, it is fully opened up, we run the risk of a tsunami of the virus which, unfortunately, some European countries are currently experiencing, with catastrophic mortality figures. It is then, and it is not so simple, to find the right measure, the right balance between effectiveness and risk, with a permanent adaptation to the health situation of the moment. As a doctor, I note, Madam Minister Delegate, that the Government has now found a responsible balance while, according to your choice and that of the President of the Republic, giving priority to the health of the French. If we make an initial assessment, what can we see objectively? France is one of the most tested countries; France is one of the countries whose mortality figures per million inhabitants are among the lowest; France is, however, one of the least restricted countries in the world; Finally, I hope that France will soon be among the nations that vaccinate the most. Despite criticism and jeremiades from all sides, the French, by their discipline, and you, Madam Minister Delegate, by your action, can boast together correct and encouraging results in the face of an exceptional health crisis. In this context, Parliament is called upon to play a role by once again extending the state of health emergency in order to maintain our level of collective effort, and above all not to lower the guard at the worst moment. The Joint Joint Committee which met at the National Assembly last Thursday found some important points of convergence, but did not agree on all the provisions remaining under discussion. I tell you frankly, the majority has approached this Joint Joint Committee with the real desire to reach the agreement required by the situation. The deletion of clause 3, which we had decided upon at first reading of the bill, had laid the favourable foundations for a potential agreement and further proposals were made to continue to bring our views closer to that of the Senate. In particular, we have put forward an important proposal for a time-bound control of containment and curfew measures through the restoration of a debate on the need for their extension after six weeks of implementation. We were ready to discuss these modalities; This unprecedented and formal commitment that the executive was prepared to make – and I want to thank the Government here – would have been added to the statement and debate, also followed by a vote, promised by the Prime Minister ahead of a possible confinement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] I deeply regret that this compromise proposal was not accepted and that the Joint Joint Committee failed on a mechanism that, as proposed by the Senate, was unrealistic and inapplicable as it was binding – I would remind you that it was a matter of passing a bill to extend confinement before four weeks. This measure did not provide new elements from which to make a serious decision on the continuation of containment and affected the executive's ability to act with reactivity in response to the evolution of the epidemic. Building on the substantive work that it has undertaken on this text since it was tabled, the Law Committee has therefore returned to the balanced drafting adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, which – I know as a doctor – will enable us to pursue our struggle effectively. As rapporteur, I will be vigilant to keep this text as it stands, even if our discussions will, as always, be rich and lively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u290	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u291	"Imminent re-containment": it was the front page of the JDD last Sunday with the Prime Minister and the Head of State as a picture. Quote: "Macron could announce it this week. But in the afternoon, the "macronologists" of the Parisian tempered: "Reconfinement: nothing will be decided until Wednesday, Elysée assures." The next day, Monday, in the middle of the day, my smartphone notified me: "Castex: Decisions will be made this week" – "decisions", for everyone, to the point where we are, is But in the evening, BFM TV displays in a banner: "Confidence: Macron wants to take his time". Why, according to the point gossip? Because the head of state "hates above all... that his arm is twisted." We are tired, weary, weary – not only, I believe, of confinement, deconfinity, reconfinement, re-disposal and possibly, surely, probably soon, in March, of re-re-confinement, but also, above all, of being toys in your hands, of being treated as puppets more than as citizens. We are suspended from the sovereign's lips. What will he decide for us, for our lives? Because all aspects of our lives are affected – all of them. Never so much as for a year we have felt the weight of the Fifth Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u292	Oh, you don't like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u293	She's very good, Ve!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u294	...and its intrusion into our private lives. It is our children who, during confinements, can no longer see their grandparents. It has never been seen in our history – I would even say that it has never been seen in the history of humanity – that we thus cut off family ties. Perhaps it was necessary, but what amazes me is that this almost anthropological rupture takes place without the slightest debate, without the slightest vote, just because one night, the president, I quote, "takes on". Let's take the curfew promotion at eighteen o'clock. The Government calls it a "complementary measure" – pretty euphemism. It's like it's annoyed! I checked: in its history, France had never known a curfew at eighteen o'clock. During the Occupancy, it was twenty hours. Same during the Algerian War: 20 hours. During the revolts of 2005: twenty-two hours. Never, therefore, has France known curfew so early. And yet, how was it decreed? Without even a debate in the House. The same applies to all fields of society. By mid-December, it was almost an action: the places of culture – cinemas, theatres, museums – were about to reopen. Stand by, let's put them off to the ministry. Forty-eight hours later, patatras, the President held: you remain closed. My son hasn't been handballing in a year; I receive emails from people who have stopped sports, who are again suffering from obesity, who have started antidepressants. Where is this state of mental and physical health discussed? Nowhere. Our colleague from the right, Émilie Bonnivard, testified for the ski resorts: never were their opening or closing debated here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u295	And it's going on! The stations are always closed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u296	It would have been necessary to refer the matter to the Council of State simply to be heard and to know the factual health reasons for your decisions. Even when the king's choices go, it seems to me, in the right direction, I feel the same unease. Two weeks ago, on a trip to a university, Emmanuel Macron said: "If he needs it, a student must be able to return to university one day a week. This leniency, I received it as a relief for the students, as a first exit from the horror of the all-distant. But how did she come? His wife, Brigitte Macron, said the day before on an antenna: "The President is overly sensitive to the student question. » Are we reduced to that? To have to touch the good heart of the monarch or that of his wife, to obtain for entire parts of the country as a right of grace? What are we talking about today? Re-confinement. I have just heard of it as a tap that could be opened or closed, but what we are talking about is to lock a people, a free people, a great people even, the people of France, without in any way involving the French; either directly or through their representatives. "The President is thinking," I read in the press. But why does Emmanuel Macron think on his own without us? "Two camps oppose each other within the Government," we are told. But why don't these two sides exchange their arguments in public? For these two camps also cross society; These two camps, in truth, cross each of us, shared and uncertain as we are. How to arbitrate between biological and social life? What are we willing to give up on? But there is no place, no institution to exchange these arguments, these statistics, these studies; no place, no institution to forge a conviction; no place, no institution to give birth to all decisions. Our fate is decided behind closed doors. Will it come out of white smoke? Will we be able to go on vacation? Will we be punished at night? We're dispossessed. We have ideas; You have some, ladies and gentlemen; The French have good and bad ones. But where can we sort it out? Where can we think together? Routine or age containment, priority to white coats for vaccination, treatment with vitamin D, hydroxychloroquine or Regeneron, a great appeal to nurses who have left the profession, the ex officio license for vaccines, home resuscitation, the requisition of the pharmaceutical industry... All these ideas, where can we discuss them? Where can we talk with the restaurateurs, with the students, with the caregivers, with the scientists? How would they consider organizing themselves? What would they want to bring to the country to feel useful? How can solidarity be strengthened? [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This place of exchange, of emulation, of debate, does not exist; He's not here, anyway. France is going through an incredible crisis, a formidable crisis, a multifaceted crisis – health, social, moral, economic – and our House is looking elsewhere, our House is dedicating itself, our House is not taking it, our House is putting separatism on the agenda as a priority, our House is even removing – this is a feat – the modest or insignificant mission that was dedicated to the covid -19, our Assembly of Larbins does not fulfil its function in front of the nation. Places are inventing out of here, at the local level: in Paris a citizen council has been set up; In Amiens, basically, the meetings in prefecture offer at least a time of listening, of consultation; But at the national level, nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u297	We should already consult Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u298	It is a matter of principle – yes, Democrat, I am, as a matter of principle, and I remain, even in times of pandemic – but also a question of effectiveness. If again, with full powers, you succeed! But you fail on everything: on masks, tests, second wave, vaccines... And you fail by your loneliness...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u299	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u300	...because, I am convinced, to consult us, to consult the French, to consult the caregivers, the students, the merchants, to set up a civic convention on the coronavirus or a chamber of time, we would have done better, much better. Almost a year ago, we were caught by surprise by this filthy virus that came out of we don't know where.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u301	From China?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u302	Sudden, authoritarian, immediate measures, we have understood them; society has accepted them, tolerated them. But the first wave has passed and in the summer, autumn, winter, a year has passed. Where's the emergency now? And most importantly, how long will it last? Six months, one year, more? Should we eliminate democracy and give you full powers for a CDI, an indefinite crisis? I mean my concern, not only for today, but also for tomorrow, for the future. We're going through a lot of crises. Weather France announced yesterday again, in a report, extreme temperatures for the end of the century; floods already succeed droughts; avian influenza is there, at the same time as the pandemic; We have entered a long-term climate crisis. What answer will we give? Will we choose urgency, eternal urgency, or, on the contrary, organization, foresight? The dictatorship – since yes, it is a form of dictatorship – the concentration of full powers in the hands of a man, a handful of men, an anonymous defence council, or, on the contrary, democracy, still democracy, still democracy? With the covid -19, I think we only suffer a first tremor. Other shocks will come, much more terrible, and this pandemic is, I fear, only a warm-up, a training. However, as by reflex, the Head of State seizes full powers and keeps us in a permanent coup d'état d'emergency. It's an alert, a bad sign for the rest: you've chosen. "The key problem, for me, is the crushing of hierarchies": President Emmanuel Macron dares to complain in these terms, while he holds our lives in his hands, decides on the distance that must separate us, our hours of exit and return. He also dares to denounce a "society that horizontalizes, [a] complete levelling, [...] a crisis of authority. But what else would he want? What more would he want? Yes, with this pandemic, the opportunity is larron; It is an opportunity for you, for your class, for the Republican monarch to get rid of demos, the people – which often goes wrong in our history. Against the solitary, authoritarian power, the French always protest, until sometimes to overthrow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u303	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u304	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The resistant poet René Char wrote: "In our darkness, there is no place for beauty. The whole place is for beauty. With these successive laws on the never-ending state of emergency, we have the impression that rather than wanting to relight a light, you are continuing to seek to prolong the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u305	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u306	[["Oh there! » on the benches of the FI group]] I don't have much to add. I will not greet you, Mr Ruffin, as you have not greeted me, and have not greeted anyone. If the executive really had full powers, we would not debate for the sixth time the extension of the state of emergency. You cannot compare what is absolutely not comparable – that's all I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u307	Is that a debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u308	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Peu, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u309	Our group, through me, will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. As François Ruffin pointed out, it is necessary to discuss authoritarian temptation, the solitude of power – all the more so since, with the retreat given by time, it proves to be of questionable efficiency. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] Beyond the current situation, François Ruffin asks a fundamental question: while since 2015, our country has lived more than half of the time in a state of emergency, have our parliamentary democracies become unable to cope with terrorist, security, climate, social and epidemic crises – since everyone tells us that this is not the last – which will multiply? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us pay attention to the authoritarian temptation to get out of the democratic regime to deal with crises. Admittedly, the French are at present mostly showing resilience or fatigue, but beware of waking up! In authoritarian regimes like others, the people often prefer the original rather than the copy – I will not draw you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u310	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u311	If we debate this text again, it is because last Thursday, in the Joint Joint Committee, we failed to reach an agreement with our fellow senators. This one was very close. We had come closer on many points, including the fact that the health crisis was a reality, with its lot of concern, and the consequent need to maintain the state of emergency regime that we have built in this Chamber and with our fellow senators, in a democratic, parliamentary framework, respectful of our institutions and the Constitution. This tool enables us to act, to take measures to protect our fellow citizens and to ensure that our hospitals function properly. In introducing this motion of rejection, Mr Ruffin, you deny all these points of convergence, both the observation and the tools that are needed, even if it is difficult. You say that everything is decided out of the debate, in an authoritarian drift. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, As the Deputy Minister has just pointed out, this is the sixth time that we have met to discuss the legal framework for a state of emergency, and the Government, with the deletion of article 3 of the text, will have to come back to us if it wishes to extend the state of emergency after June or establish a transitional mechanism in the face of the crisis. We shall therefore vote against this motion of rejection. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr. Ruffin, I have noted your fascination with the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron; It would be necessary at times to get out of your purely Amienese prism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u312	The next speaker is Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u313	Mr. Gouffier-Cha's speech fell to the fore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u314	It's kind of flat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u315	He read out the work of the Joint Joint Committee held last week. Let me share ours. [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] [[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] Yes, the agreement was not far away, but, Mr Gouffier-Cha, you missed the freedom to discuss in your capacity as parliamentarians, elected by direct suffrage, with personal legitimacy to participate in the collective construction of a position: you were hanged on the phone, waiting for Matignon's position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u316	No! No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u317	That's what made the discussion impossible! It is your inability to provide room for manoeuvre to propose an acceptable solution that has prevented the work from succeeding! The attitude of the rapporteur and the amendment which he subsequently adopted in committee are unacceptable. They still take us back, when we had reached near-balance points. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Yes, we were not far from reaching an agreement, but the text that you had adopted during the last time in committee is unacceptable to us, because it goes far too far, giving full powers and for too long to a government with which fewer and fewer French people trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u318	Mr Philippe Latomb, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u319	Mr Schellenberger, we will return to the general discussion on what you have just said about the Joint Joint Committee. However, you are well aware that the proposal that was discussed here, namely to provide for a declaration by the Government followed by a debate and a vote under Article 50-1 of the Constitution, cannot, under the Constitution, be imposed by parliamentarians on the executive. Moreover, this proposal – which certainly had advantages, and allowed Parliament to express itself – concerned only a possible confinement. You also avoid the fact that the senators and deputies present in the Joint Joint Committee were unanimously in favour of extending the state of health emergency, because the situation requires it. We cannot support this motion to reject beforehand, because we need this legal framework and the crisis is not over. The issue is not that of parliamentarism or its possible exacerbation: we have other means to control the Government's action, which we can all use and which we will have the opportunity to address in the general discussion. We need the executive to be able to react very quickly to a rapidly changing health situation. Without this capacity to react, given by the legal framework of the state of emergency, we will not be able to do so and we will not be able to protect the French. Of course, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u320	The next speaker is Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u321	We will not vote in favour of this motion of rejection; In general, we are against these motions, because we want to discuss the substance and give our position. On the merits, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional decisions must be taken. We are going through an unprecedented, painful, difficult crisis. You were right to point out, Mr Ruffin, that many French people are in great social difficulty and are asking to be able to resume cultural and sporting activities. Of course! We are the first to relay and understand these expectations. Let us take the example of the inhabitants of the 18th arrondissement of Paris, with whom I was discussing on Sunday, in the market of the rue du Poteau. While she has made many demands and criticisms, she concluded with a point of common sense: "Yes, it is difficult to govern in stormy times, and I imagine that decisions are not easy to make, because we need the highest authorities of the state to protect us in this crisis and open up opportunities for us. » A few weeks ago, I was talking to one of our former prime ministers, who held these positions a few years ago. He told me that he would not like to govern today, because it has become very difficult, with all these "there is only" and these "we have to". It's so easy to indicate how to proceed when you're not in charge! For our part, we measure the difficulty of making decisions, and know that there is no miracle recipe, nowhere in the world. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues on the left and on the right, opposition is often easy. So ask yourself first what you can do for your country, to help the President of the Republic and the Government succeed collectively in getting us out of this unprecedented crisis, which affects the whole world. We will then be able to debate, to compare opinions, and you will be able to criticize, as is natural, as you have done and will continue to do at the time of this sixth debate on a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u322	Mr Pascal Brindeau, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u323	Our colleague François Ruffin has given himself up to a figure imposed with this motion of rejection. We do not share its objective of stopping the debate immediately. Indeed, at this stage of the parliamentary shuttle, we must bring it to a successful conclusion, by putting forward proposals, including alternatives to what is proposed. In substance, Mr Ruffin, you are, however, fairly correct in formulating our great collective problem: to what extent is it desirable, acceptable, to limit the exercise of democracy by representatives of the nation and by our fellow citizens in order to guarantee the effectiveness of measures depriving them of individual and collective freedoms in the fight against the virus? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this substantive debate remains, although unfortunately you still tend to contest it, claiming that nothing can take precedence over the health protection of our fellow citizens, that there is no reason to discuss the date of the end of the state of health emergency provided for in the original bill, that nothing is questionable as to the duration of the use of information systems or the authorization given to the Government to legislate by ordinances which it can amend and extend as it wishes. For our part, we have no opportunity to re-discuss these issues and the authorizations given to the Government, while they concern many areas and affect our citizens strongly. This is the real debate. We ask you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u324	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u325	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... since the beginning of these debates to listen a little to the alternative proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u326	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u327	You say, Madam Deputy Minister, that this is the sixth time in a year that we are discussing this subject – but we are still happy! Yet, what is the result of these successive debates? For the past year, how many opposition amendments have you accepted in this essential discussion on the response to this unprecedented health crisis? How many proposals from France insist on the organisation of rotations in daily life and on the organisation of screening, on how to invest in the public hospital to cope with the crisis, on economic recovery, and on support for small businesses? None, or almost none. We can therefore always debate and this is our role, but do not use this argument to claim that your way of dealing with the crisis is democratic, especially since you are asking us to grant you exorbitant powers of common law, powers that drastically reduce the rights and fundamental freedoms of the population, on the grounds that it is precisely a question of responding to a health crisis. Perhaps it would be a good idea to consider your record after a year, because this motion to reject is not just a formal one. If we reject the extension, it is to force you to take stock of it and eventually listen to other voices and implement other solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u328	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u329	Although it is said that the crisis is global, some countries are doing better, as shown by the Lowy Institute, which is far from being an unsubstantiated body but ranks France, on a global level, in seventy-third out of ninety-eight for its management of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u330	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u331	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Do you have any answers to the fact that some countries, not just authoritarian or exotic countries, but European countries, are doing better? No, you have no answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u332	Mrs Martine Wonner, for the Libertés et Territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u333	It is always an eminently solemn moment that this debate on the state of health emergency, which we are carrying out for the sixth time. At the outset, I would like to announce that the Libertés et territoires Group will support this motion of rejection because, in reality, there has been no real debate since 23 March 2020. Since that date, we have witnessed a flight forward of the Government, which continues the state of emergency and imposes a deprivation of liberty on French women and French women, which they now have more than enough. Look at what is happening in the territories, where some have already lost everything: do you not hear the exhaustion, the suffering, the economic and social difficulties in which you continue to rush this country? France has more than enough, and I would remind you that there are other solutions. I thank my colleague François Ruffin for referring to early treatment or prevention possibilities. Let's look at what other countries are doing: Italy is reopening its restaurants, bars and museums. Why then should the French continue to live, not confined, since they are destined to go to work, but under a curfew regime? I wish we could discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u334	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marietta Karamanli, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u335	This motion of rejection which we tabled the last time, of course, my group will support it. After stressing the work done in the CMP, I would like to stress that we lack a true medical and scientific assessment, known and shared, and that therefore we cannot really hold a debate on the strategies followed in this health crisis. Nor have we been able to discuss the opposition's proposals, although they would deserve to be discussed freely here. Parliament has shown that it is responsible and able to make decisions. We have proposed that a vote be taken to endorse each containment decision, as the public misunderstands who really decides: is it the President? Parliament? The government? Beyond our agreements and disagreements, we are taking sides today not only with regard to the state of emergency but also, more generally, with regard to the functioning of our institutions, because it is important to ask ourselves the right questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u336	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u337	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 134 Number of votes cast 123 Absolute majority 62 For adoption 22 Against 101
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u338	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u339	Unsurprisingly, the Joint Joint Committee meeting last week failed to find common ground on the place of democracy in the management of the health crisis. The executive wants, with the support of its majority, to continue to decide alone on the measures to be taken, regardless of their impact on the daily lives of millions of our fellow citizens, and on tempo. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I am talking about the executive, but this one is now reduced to the figure of the head of state: it is Emmanuel Macron who, alone, decided Friday night to postpone a third confinement. The question here is not whether this postponement is appropriate or not, but what is the legitimacy of this fact of the prince and this quasi-monarchical exercise of power. Since the beginning of this crisis, our compatriots have the justified feeling that they are less and less the citizens of a republic and more and more the subjects of a presidential monarchy. However, as we have repeatedly said, the concentration of powers is not synonymous with efficiency, even in the most acute times of crisis, because, in order to be effective, measures must be informed, legitimate and agreed upon, all things for which Parliament's close involvement is necessary. The policy of fighting covid-19 cannot therefore be achieved by leaving our assembly on the sidelines and consulting it only for the form, at a time that you consider appropriate. The state of emergency has led you to pilot the crisis on a day-to-day basis, accumulating errors that a close association of Parliament would have made it easy for you to avoid, by uncovering other solutions to the risks identified on the ground. The Assembly is, above all, an assurance for our fellow citizens, that of collegiality and democratic legitimacy; it shall also ensure the proportionality and necessity of the measures envisaged; It is finally up to him to control the executive. But you now also refuse to fully exercise these powers: the dissolution of the information mission of our assembly is the new symbol of your contempt for opposition and your disdain for democratic deliberation and protest. That is why we object to the derogation from the state of emergency, which was initially presented as temporary and limited to three months, and then extended by six months and now by more than one year. We are very committed to the regular intervention of the legislator to ensure that the rights of our fellow citizens are preserved as far as possible. We cannot therefore follow you when you propose to extend the legal regime of the state of emergency until 31 December next. This decision is likely to make the use of emergency procedures and the restrictions on the freedoms involved ever more common. It appears to be all the less well-founded in this case, since the vaccination strategy must be able to vaccinate the majority of the population by the summer – unless the announced schedule is no longer relevant, but we dare not think so. For the same reason, we cannot accept the continuation of the state of emergency until 1 June, without a closer re-visit clause. It is time for us to come out of this logic of successive parentheses of the rule of law, put in parentheses that the situation obviously no longer justifies. It is time to move on to a system of regular referrals to Parliament, to a regime that respects democracy and the principle of separation of powers. It is not healthy for a democracy to put the normal functioning of its institutions in brackets as soon as the wind rises. If more lasting storms were to occur, the emergency regime could become the norm, as you have done on other topics since 2015. For all these reasons, you will not be surprised to see the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left reject your text. By choosing an authoritarian management of the health crisis, you take the risk of opening a democratic crisis, which will require your successors to redouble their efforts to restore the bond of mutual trust between the rulers, elected officials of the nation and citizens. This democratic crisis is no less decisive than the health crisis. It destroys our country by hurting its republican roots. Our vote will therefore have nothing, as you will have understood, of a special vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u340	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u341	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u342	After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee which took place last Thursday, we are here again to discuss the extension of the state of emergency and the state of emergency itself. It seems to me important to come back for a moment to the reasons for the failure of this joint committee and to the agreement that we have not been able to find with our honourable senators. However, this agreement seemed very close – the situation was shared, and proposals had been made on both sides – thanks in particular to the work and commitment of the Chair of the Committee on Laws and our rapporteur, whom I would like to welcome here. So we can only regret this failure, but we must all learn from it. The positive lessons first. At this CMP, we found that, together with our colleagues in the Senate, we shared the same observation about the reality of the health crisis, the uncertainties associated with it, and the need to maintain the state of emergency health regime, which provides the Government with the opportunity to act within a clear legal framework to protect the lives of our fellow citizens and to enable our health-care workers to carry out their mission and our hospitals to hold. We agreed that the state of emergency should be extended and we were about to reach agreement on an end date in mid-May. We also agreed on the need to strengthen the role of Parliament. In particular, we endorsed the continued abolition of Article 3 and the abolition of a transitional regime after 1 June 2021. This decision implies that the Government will be called upon to return to Parliament at the end of the spring if the health crisis requires a further extension of the state of emergency or a transitional regime. We have therefore found points of agreement, but we have failed on one important point, of course, that of containment and control of its application; We regret it. The majority of the Senate was determined that confinement should be triggered by legislation. We, for our part, managed to secure a commitment from the Government: to organize a debate followed by a vote under Article 50-1 of the Constitution, once the confinement would exceed six weeks. While this proposal has been welcomed by various groups in the Assembly and the Senate, the majority of the High House has not been able to act on it; We did not want to go in the way she proposed. This commitment has therefore led to the failure of the CMP, alas! Given the health crisis, its unpredictability, the complexity of the decisions it brings to be made in the light of the health situation, as well as the social and economic situation, the honourable senators' proposal seemed to us to be counterproductive and, moreover, likely to increase the whole decision-making process by creating an additional strain on the issue of confinement. The decisions taken by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister last weekend – difficult and courageous decisions, which we welcome – reinforce the position we defended last Thursday during the meeting with senators; We want to clearly define a legal framework that respects the institutions and the Constitution, which enables the Government to act effectively and proportionately in this unprecedented health crisis, and to adapt continuously. Therefore, in the debate that will take place this afternoon, following yesterday's work in the Law Commission, we will confirm the re-establishment of the drafting of the clauses of the bill as we passed them at first reading. The state of emergency regime will run until 31 December 2021; Information systems will end on the same date. The state of emergency will be extended until 1 June 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This state of emergency is a test which, as we know, requires significant efforts from our fellow citizens, which disrupts everyday life and questions the future. But given the health crisis and its uncertainties, particularly regarding the virulence of the variants of the virus, we need to extend this device. I hope that our work will be calm, like that of last Thursday's CMP and yesterday's Law Committee. Of course, the deputies of the Republic are taking their responsibilities and will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u343	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u344	This is the fifth text we are studying concerning the state of emergency, and even the sixth one, if we look at the failure of the idea of establishing, in times of crisis, a permanent regime for the management of the state of emergency. I see in your remarks, Madam Minister Delegate, a form of fatigue to have to be there to finally always discuss the same legal text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u345	It's not the only one that's tired, apparently!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u346	In a way, I share this fatigue a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u347	The French share it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u348	When in March we voted for the first state of health emergency, the situation was not the same; We were all in shock, we were discovering this threat, we were discovering this crisis, we were discovering the need for exceptional measures in times of peace – if I may say so – in a democratic state. It was in this context that we had all collectively, 25 in the Chamber, built an emergency legal framework to deal with the crisis. A year later, we did not change that iota frame. We have simply extended a crisis and extended a crisis, extending a regime built in an emergency to deal with a situation that no one had anticipated. We are therefore meeting last week in the Joint Joint Committee with a debate which, for the first time since the beginning of the crisis, was presented, very calmly, in the following way: what is the place of democracy in the management of a health crisis? It's a question we haven't finally asked ourselves so far. In March, it was decided to give all necessary powers to the Government; Then, the provisions created in an emergency were extended. At no time did we ask ourselves the question of the management of the expression of the people, through their representatives as we are. At no time did we really ask ourselves the question of the institutionalisation of democratic control. That is what caused the Joint Joint Committee to fail. What were we saying? We were not asking for a debate, contrary to what the Prime Minister tried to make believe in announcing before the Joint Joint Committee, in a somewhat sneaky way, the holding – apparently today – of a debate followed by a vote, in accordance with Article 50-1 of the Constitution. Last week, just before the Joint Joint Committee, all the news channels, all the media, announced that today will be holding a debate in accordance with this article. I'll call him back, in case anyone forgets! This debate did not take place. We wanted the Government to have the means, if necessary, to mobilize all the tools it needs, including containment. But what we were also saying is that from the moment he mobilises them more than a month, then we need greater control of Parliament, a debate, a vote. We did not fully agree on the modalities of the debate and the vote. Senators proposed that a law be required; We were prepared to hear that a law may be too rigid, not flexible enough. As far as the vote is concerned, I hear the debate on constitutionality. We are fortunate, with the Fifth Republic, to have institutions that are both flexible and rigid, rigid and flexible. Fortunately, they have both characteristics, because if the constitutional judge had received the first text on the state of health emergency and had expressed itself rigidly according to the letter of the Constitution, I am not sure that the Government would have had the means to act at that time. Well, if the counterpart to the constitutional judge's flexibility in March and during all the extensions of the state of health emergency, could it be to give Parliament the opportunity to vote on a confinement that lasts more than a month, would it not be possible to create a relevant right from the point of view of the exercise of democratic control? This is the question that we asked ourselves in the Joint Joint Committee. I am pleased that we are making this public today, so that our fellow citizens are aware of the nature of the debates that have taken place there and of the refusal by the majority and the Government to vote against the senators and members of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u349	It was the Senate that refused!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u350	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u351	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u352	I will be concise, many of which have already been said about the state of emergency, its prorogation under this bill, and the failure of the CMP; The failure of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, which has taken place in a media context strongly marked by the anticipation of a hypothetical reconstitution, is deeply regretted. In fact, it is on this question alone that the CMP failed: how can we ensure that Parliament votes in the event of an extension of a confinement? Constructive proposals were put on the table, including by the executive, after a lengthy discussion. In this regard, I would like to thank the Chair of the Law Committee and the Members present at the CMP. Following the parallelism of the forms, the executive had undertaken to organize, in the event of confinement beyond six weeks, a debate in accordance with Article 50-1 of the Constitution, followed by a vote. This achopped, while for the rest, agreements had been reached. That's a shame. On the rest of the text submitted for the new reading, I would like to go back to the points which the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats consider important. First of all, our group is fully satisfied that the text for the inclusion in the common law of health emergency measures will be examined later, when the health situation in the face of the crisis of covid-19 is calmed. Recent events regarding vaccine delivery times or border management show that we continue to learn about managing the epidemic. Therefore, the bill we are considering today is necessary. As was written in the impact assessment, the situation leaves the possibility of a further outbreak of the epidemic in the coming weeks; For the time being, there is no indicator that would allow for a clear and rapid improvement in the situation. As we can see, the Government must constantly adjust measures to ensure health security in the light of the evolution of the pandemic. It must therefore be able to make and announce arrangements quickly. These are sometimes all the more essential as we are confronted with the arrival on our territory of new variants which can lead to faster contamination. We must therefore provide the Government with a legal framework for action that is timely and responsive to health issues. For our group, those proposed in the text are relevant. We note with satisfaction the inclusion in the Act itself of the provisions of article 4, even though the reference to a reference to a decree in the Council of State had been made abinitio before the transfer to the Council of Ministers. The role of Parliament is thus strengthened, which satisfies us. Similarly, the abolition of Article 3 by amendment in the Committee on Laws, which has led to the unanimity of the political groups in both the Assembly and the Senate, is welcomed by all the members of the group. Thirdly, the examination of the text shows Parliament's ability to work in emergency situations, even when the parliamentary calendar is dense. We believe that giving the Government a legal framework for prompt action is not contrary to the role of Parliament, under certain conditions: for example, Parliament does not fully divest itself of the executive's control, as it retains its ability to summon members of the Government and senior officials responsible for managing the pandemic before the Adhoc commissions. In addition, individual parliamentarians retain the means to interview departments or the administration at any time. Madam Minister-in-Charge, I also welcome the fact that you, together with your responsible minister, have also been present to answer questions in committee or on topical issues about the means used by the executive for the last year. However, these parliamentary possibilities can only be effective if there is real transparency in the answers and figures. We have seen it with masks or tests, our fellow citizens want to know and be considered as adults. The same is currently true with vaccines. Transparency is necessary to enable everyone to adhere to the custodial measures that must be taken healthily. I welcome the information you provide on a daily basis with regard to the delivery of vaccines; Our fellow citizens expect a lot of it and we owe it to them. [[Anne-Laure Cattelot applauds]] Finally, another condition that is of particular interest to me is plans to ratify the ordinances. We count on you to ensure that these drafts are tabled on the Bureau of the Assembly immediately after the publication of the said ordinances, and that their consideration is scheduled very quickly, without delay, even in a forced parliamentary calendar. As these points have been highlighted, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats is in favour of the text and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u353	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u354	My remarks will be based on two points: the absence of a general framework in the light of the results of previous agreements given by Parliament, and our expectations. On the first point, I recall that the state of health emergency was once again declared by a decree of 14 October 2020. After a curfew phase for only part of the national territory, we went back to a large curfew phase. The state of health emergency shall be decreed only for a short period of time; Beyond this, recourse to the law is necessary. That is the purpose of the bill we are discussing. Parliament agreed in March, May, July and November to grant the Government exceptional powers in the face of the crisis. Throughout these ten months – almost a year – we have been able to hope that measures of general control of the powers thus given will be examined. Indeed, an agreement to apply limitations to public and individual freedoms requires that they be temporary, that Parliament be called upon to vote regularly and that judges ensure the proportionality of such measures. To look at this new bill, we needed to know a little more about the record of the past few months, about the vaccination campaign, its priorities and logistics, and about alternative scenarios that could adapt it to the effects we found. However, we have received few detailed answers. At first reading, this bill was considered without real visibility. The Senate and the National Assembly found two major points of disagreement: the deadline, set by the Senate on 31 January and 26 February by the National Assembly, and the control powers of the Parliament. Our successive interventions raise the question of Parliament's role in establishing a state of emergency and the measures it involves. Many of us have said that it is not only necessary to limit the prolongation of the state of health emergency over time, but also to strengthen the conditions for Parliament's approval as the state of health emergency or its significant changes are extended. We therefore hope that a parliamentary debate will be held on each further extension, as well as on each decision to restrict measures following a significant change in the health situation or the Government's strategy. Very concretely, after shortages of hydro-alcoholic gel, changes in indications of masks, difficulties in supplying vaccines, questions about priority audiences and protocols applicable in schools, it makes sense for us to ask ourselves whether considerations that are not only medical and public health will not lead you, in a few weeks' time, to ask us to allow new restrictions on freedoms. Transparency fosters confidence; We all need it here, including to convince the most reluctant that, as far as the available knowledge is concerned, the measures taken and to be taken are proportionate and effective, are consistent with the health situation, and are not dictated by external considerations. This implies placing collegial, transparent and contradictory public expertise at the heart of the decision. Returning to the bill, the CMP has only found a substantive disagreement as to the control that Parliament must exercise over the Government during this period. The difference concerns not only the respective boundaries of the two institutions, but also the balance of powers and the strict framework for the limitations of freedoms, so that the measures to be taken are better thought, and thus better applied. In conclusion, the Socialist and related group will make very concrete proposals to regulate the limitations of freedoms, such as that of going and coming...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u355	Thank you, Mrs Karamanli. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u356	For the past year, the covid-19 epidemic has upset our lives. The emergence of this new virus has hit almost the entire planet; the whole world has had to face a pandemic of an unknown form. The situation is unprecedented for the scientific community, for the rulers, and for the citizens we are. For almost a year now, our democracy has been living at the pace of the health, economic, social and psychological emergency, which has put our lives to the test. The period of the first confinement was particularly challenging, when caregivers were mobilized day and night in the hospital. Then came the end of spring; We thought we would gradually return to our normal lives. In the fall, we went through a second wave, which forced us to resort to a new containment. Today, in the face of the threat posed by the emergence of variants from all over the world, it is imperative to continue to apply strict health measures to prevent their spread on a larger scale. We are still living in uncertainty that persists, misleads our lives and prevents us from planning for the future. Like you, Madam Minister Delegate, I hear the weariness, the anger sometimes, the doubts that lie ahead, and the anxieties of our fellow citizens. I understand the suffering expressed in testimonies that we have all faced in our ridings. I measure the terrain that precariousness is gaining in the population. At our level, we are trying to raise awareness of emergencies and find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u357	However, I mean that there are grounds for hope. Never in the history of humanity had we found a vaccine against a virus that we didn't know about a year ago. The solutions are there; A horizon will gradually emerge. I mean, there's reason to trust. We will never have put an entire economy at a standstill to protect the health of our fellow citizens. No other country has applied so many exceptional aid measures, with the State replacing the employer to pay wages, guaranteeing loans granted by the banks, plentiful a solidarity fund for the most precarious. Of course, some devices may require adjustments to take into account new situations. We're working on it. Finally, I want to say that we must not give in to the temptation to spread rumours, to exacerbate tensions, to speak out to the pluck – they are "only to" and "we have to" – and to devote ourselves to certainties that are not based on any fact. This crisis is also a test of humility, which is imposed on all of us: the epidemic continues to evolve, questioning what was believed to be acquired; No expert can claim that he would of course have done anything better than everyone else; We all know how difficult decisions are to make in these serious hours, because all the governments of the world are facing the same difficulties, with the same intensity. Let us be aware of this when we analyse the Government's policy. The Action Together Group has made constructive proposals for several months, which have found a positive response to the Government – we welcome it. Stricter border control, "test, trace, isolate" policy and help with the isolation of patients are all barriers to the spread of the virus. Each of the members of our group will vote consciously on this text. Recent history has spared our country wars and great human catastrophes. Today, the situation obliges us to act together to get out of this collective ordeal into a strong and united nation. I invite my colleagues from all walks of life to reflect first on the general interest: our only compass in times of crisis must be the service of our fellow citizens. The extension of the state of health emergency is a derogation, which corresponds to these exceptional circumstances. For the representatives of the nation that we are, we know what responsibility is involved. Let us live up to this immense challenge, our responsibility, the general interest; Let us put ourselves at work in the service of the population, and let us stop unnecessary polemics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u358	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u359	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u360	We are again considering a bill to extend the state of health emergency, because the Joint Joint Committee has not been successful. This symbolizes your responsibility in the failure to manage the health crisis. No one here obviously disputes that it is difficult to ask our fellow citizens to confide in themselves, to respect a curfew, to give up reuniting their loved ones for the end of the year, to favour telework by abandoning the social relations that contribute to the balance of professional life, to be prevented from going to the museum or to the cinema; impose on restaurateurs to close their establishments for months, without even a prospect of reopening; to ban ski resorts from using their equipment, even though, curiously, snow was particularly favourable this year. However, in order for all these decisions to be understood and accepted sustainably, they must be accompanied by the humble acceptance that you are not always right. Your certitudes are based on the conclusions of the Scientific Council: if you make a shortcut, the latter dictates to you political decisions that belong to the Government, in consultation with the legislative power. In essence, since the beginning of the crisis, the question has been to what extent it is acceptable for parliamentarians to renounce their prerogatives in the daily exercise of democracy, in order to allow the application of exorbitant measures of the common law to effectively combat the spread of the virus. I'm not bringing you to trial; However, if we had adopted the certainties that you expressed at the beginning of the crisis regarding masks and deconfination strategy, or those that you are posting today with regard to vaccination policy, the strategy would not be the same; The vaccination strategy would be different without calls from local elected officials, relayed here by parliamentarians, to open vaccination centres. Because of your certainty about vaccine orders, a French start-up has not been requested by the Government in support of this strategy. Only here can we discuss such matters at regular intervals. The Minister of Solidarity and Health is tired of having to return, for the twenty-third time, to the national representation, in order to constantly repeat the same arguments, which he presents as certainty. We should not then discuss the deadline for an extended state of emergency, nor should we discuss the use of information systems which are partly contrary to fundamental principles, including respect for medical confidentiality; We should leave the field open to the executive, divesting us of our elementary prerogatives, such as the control of the executive! Should it be considered that a Member of Parliament who sends a letter to a minister is performing his or her oversight function satisfactorily in this situation? [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] It is a pity that you were unable to ensure that the CMP was successful and that you would come back and ask us to vote on the original text. The IDU and independent group would have agreed to vote on the text adopted in the Senate, but we will not vote on the text you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u361	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u362	The media right now often ask me what I would do if I was in Emmanuel Macron's place. Perhaps they ask because they feel that the wind is turning in favour of our camp... In any case, the public hospital would not be there and I am sure I would do everything, except maintain the authoritarian carcan imposed by your middle-aged strategy. It is certain that I would not be busy voting for the third time for an extension of the state of emergency, claiming that establishing a state of emergency, imposing curfews, and giving any power to a defence counsel will effectively solve our problems. Unlike you, after accumulating errors, improvisations, volte-face, as in last week's bad series, I would at least have the humility, in such a crisis, to listen a little to the suggestions of others, even those who belong to the opposition, leaving a real place for a debate in the Assembly, and stopping dealing with polemics about their proposals. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, the human being can't stand Damocles' swords, as he can't stand to be repeatedly treated as an inconsequential little child, even though our 66 million so-called prosecutors – or rather victims – are actually showing incredible kindness and responsibility: would Mr Macron have forgotten it? The human being is above all a social being, whose food needs are not limited to drinking and eating, and certainly not to drinking, eating, and going to work. This chaotic and liberticide strategy is no longer manageable. The situation is no longer tenable. It is not by prolonging those full powers for one more time that you will improve the situation of the country, neither at the health level, nor at the economic level, nor at the human or democratic level. If I were in Emmanuel Macron's place, in addition to abandoning my bad monarchy habits, I would immediately clarify and change my strategy, organizing society on a rotational basis, in order to minimize contacts but without crushing our social needs, our cultural needs, our emotional needs. This, of course, requires planning and organization, but social actors could make a significant contribution if they were to do so. I would ensure that the masks are no longer distributed to the dropper, but free of charge, as they should have been from the first epidemic signs, to avoid making them an object discriminating for the poorest and not to increase inequalities or the spread of the disease. I would be concerned about recruiting caregivers and staff for hospitals and EHPADs, giving them the means to do their work properly and increasing their salaries permanently, rather than continuing to plan hundreds of bed deletions, as is still the case in the midst of a crisis – I am thinking in particular of the Grand Paris-Nord Hospital project in my constituency. I would allow the duplication of all classes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u363	The Government has done so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u364	... in order to avoid the introduction of untenable and ineffective protocols in schools, by devoting the necessary material and human resources to them, but I would not once again ask teachers to do four times more with four times less. In parallel with this treatment of the health emergency, I would propose – and you should do so without delay – to the Assembly to discuss a great anti-poverty plan, financed by taxation of the richest and those I call the crisis profiters. In this regard, billionaires have accumulated 175 billion euros more last year, so that France ranks third in the ranking of the increase in billionaires' wealth, behind the United States and China. I would go for the money where it is, by restoring the solidarity tax on wealth, by taxing dividends, rather than by making blank cheques to large companies, some of which have allowed themselves to lay off while they receive public money and receive dividends. With this money, we could create hundreds of thousands of youth jobs, open the RSA – active solidarity income – to young people under 25 years of age, and increase the social minimums so that no one has to live below the poverty line in our country. Finally, instead of Mr Macron, I would prefer to work to guarantee the health sovereignty of France. I would make necessary relocations and nationalizations a reality, rather than an umpteenth hollow promise. For example, Sanofi has for several years received EUR 1 billion in public money and EUR 4 billion in dividends in 2020, while 400 additional jobs will soon be eliminated. I would order French companies in the health sector, instead of allowing free trade and the invisible hand of the market. Thus, the Franco-Austrian company Valneva will deliver its doses to the United Kingdom, for lack of an outlet for the French market; Macopharma, in the Hauts-de-France, produces FFP2 masks that are bought by Brazil, the USA, Canada, Spain, but more by France since last September; and let's not forget Péters Surgical or Luxfer. I would be concerned to guarantee our vaccine sovereignty and our ability to meet the demand of the French, who want to be able to benefit from this vaccine before 2035! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] And while waiting to catch up on a French vaccine and impose free licenses, I would have the pragmatism to go to China and Russia, whose vaccines appear to be 95% effective, rather than remaining subject to the markets corresponding to our geostrategic alliances. There are so many things to do and so many solutions to find, different from the authoritarian solutions you propose. Unsurprisingly, the group La France insoumise will again vote against this extension of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u365	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u366	We are here again in this Chamber, following the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, to refer once again to the state of health emergency. The Libertés et territoires group has already repeatedly expressed the reasons for its disagreement with the methods surrounding successive laws of prolongation of the state of emergency. However, in order not to be caricatured as a disputing group or to deny the seriousness of the situation, we have made ourselves a force of proposal. We will again defend our ideas at this new reading, with consistency. The health situation is very worrying. Like you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I think it is time to mobilize. However, should this collective mobilization be carried out by disdaining democracy? Can the current situation justify a disregard for the institutions in the country of fundamental freedoms, and the pitfall of our democracy? We don't think so. The introduction of an emergency regime until 1 June 2021, while we have no visibility of the situation in the next two months, would almost amount to giving you full powers, even though we do not know if they will still be necessary. I say this on purpose, because no one is unaware of the stakes of the date of 1 June: it allows you, in the event of the adoption of the text, to put democracy under a bell, preventing defacto the holding of a genuine electoral campaign for the regional and departmental elections. Perhaps that is not the intention of the Government. In this case, in order to dispel the doubts, we call on the majority to vote on the amendment which I will present, which aims to reduce the deadline for the state of health emergency, not to 1 June, but to 16 April, in three months' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u367	Two months, more like...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u368	Under François Hollande's quinquennium, Parliament voted on the extension of the state of emergency every two months. With this amendment, we will be able to ask Parliament again, in two months' time, Madam Deputy Minister, and to establish in full conscience, in the light of the facts that we will have, whether or not it is appropriate to extend these measures to restrict public freedoms, at the time when an election campaign is to be held. I already hear voices rising, saying that the French are first and foremost concerned about the management of the crisis and have nothing to do with elections: I do not think so. If these elections were to be cancelled, the same people would probably be the first to shout at the scandal. I reject this argument all the more because, in many countries, major elections have taken place in the United States, Portugal and Ukraine; Catalonia will organise the parliamentary elections on 14 February. Therefore, why should we in France put democracy on the brink and prevent any possibility of campaigning? Everyone's gonna make up their mind. We repeat: what French law permits is sufficient, and we believe that the institutions of the Republic are able to face a health crisis – of which we do not minimize the extent – without going through this attraction of exceptional devices, and without putting Parliament aside. Indeed, the Government's decisions, sometimes perceived as hasty, are in surplus in an opaque defence council, whose democratic legitimacy is questionable. This gives the impression of decisions of alcove, taken in the secrets of Parisian cabinets, which is far removed from the idea that I have of democracy. While the current situation requires strong measures, these must be the result of a process of consultation and transparency among all political forces. The Freedom and Territory Group also supports the idea that each decree establishing a confinement or curfew must, within three days, be the subject of a declaration by the Government to Parliament, followed by a vote, under article 50-1 of the Constitution. This was one of the advances on which the Joint Joint Committee had reached agreement: we regret that our amendment in this respect cannot be discussed at the sitting, although a similar amendment could have been tabled in committee. We believe, however, that this measure is not sufficient, since the debates and the vote under Article 50-1 of the Constitution are purely indicative. The Government is not obliged to follow our advice, and it does not ask us! He only asks us to endorse decisions made without consulting us. It is therefore, above all, a vote of confidence, but it is not decreed. The executive once again puts us before the fait accompli. But to win membership, we must unite. However, the haste with which we are asked to take a decision on this text, which is intended to deprive ourselves of our own prerogatives, creates a doubt, as does the reluctance of the Government to give reasons for its decisions before Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – François Ruffin also applauds]] Coherent with the position he has expressed on many occasions, as regards the method used with these extension texts, which are anything but technical, and in view of the consequences on fundamental freedoms, the Freedom and Territory Group will again vote mainly against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u369	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u370	France has been living on a peak line since 17 March 2020 to deal with the global health crisis. It seeks a balance between too strict measures, which would undermine the resilience of the French, and too flexible measures, which would endanger the lives and health of the most fragile of us. However, a society is considered to be of particular concern to the most vulnerable: the elderly, persons with disabilities or immunodeficiencies, but also young people, people in precarious situations, who are weakened not by the disease, but by the consequences of measures of deprivation of liberty – social and economic consequences, consequences for physical and mental health. This is the sixth bill to introduce or extend a state of health emergency that we are considering. The debates allow both the upper and lower chambers to express themselves on the government's health strategy, and it is happy that the parliamentary debates are at present far removed from the main concerns of the French: when can our relatives be vaccinated and when can we take them in our arms? When will our daughters and sons be able to find a job, the way to college? When will we find a cultural life, a life of conviviality, a life simply? Others have said so before me, but it is a crucial point that must be stressed: the lack of debate and a thorough assessment by Parliament of the Government's action is a major problem. It is not possible to limit our prerogatives so long. By acting alone, the executive power itself limits the legitimacy of the decisions it must take. It is not possible for a country's life to be suspended every week after a meeting held in camera. National representation, elected by direct universal suffrage, must attest to the need to act and implement exceptional measures. The Government can only be strong if Parliament is at its side and if it agrees to listen to it. How can home nursing care providers – SSIAD – understand that, during the discussion of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2021, all proposals for salary enhancements were rejected? It was finally necessary to wait until the conclusion of the work led by a senior official, to make the same decision... Where is the legitimacy and credibility of public action? How can we count on the same dedication on the part of health professionals, who, at the end of January, obtained a high struggle, a revalorisation due to them, when a just decision could have been made, here, as early as October? Since the first emergency measures, we have alerted the Government to the consequences of restrictive measures, which cause even more precariousness and suffering among students. These young people, stigmatized, were first accused of inconsequentiality; They threatened their elders, they were told. We seem to discover today that they will keep lasting wounds. In the exceptional circumstances that we are going through, the debates, the controversy, the objections are all necessary, even if this is difficult for the Government, because we are precisely going through a difficult time. The acceptability of social restraint measures is not decreed. It is legitimate when it comes to a democratic process. Refocusing Parliament's action on the daily and immediate concerns of the French is all the more essential since to this day, a question, which scares us all, has not yet been addressed: how to live with the virus, if the situation lasts two, three, four years? Can we continue to see the queues swell in front of food aid associations? Can we continue to lose our art of living, to use your expression, Madam Deputy Minister? Until when can we put cultural actors at risk, putting us all in danger? [[Mrs Martine Wonner and Mr François Ruffin applaud]] We now need perspectives. We cannot escape this debate. It is necessary to start work now. This is the real urgency, which is not that of prolonging a state which aims at depriving parliamentarians of their power of proposal and action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u371	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u372	I now call, in the text of the commission, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u373	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u374	It seems to me important to take up the floor again because although we were here for the sixth time, the debate remains rather sterile. Ten months ago, I was already explaining that the Government was locking us in a safe and inescapable logic, under the guise of managing the health crisis. Eleven months ago, perhaps we could agree that we were basically unaware of what this global pandemic was, which could cause concern. The decisions made from March 23, 2020 may have been the right ones, but since then we have learned that neither confinement nor curfew protects individuals and caregivers from covid-19. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] The path you are taking and on which you continue to lead us is quite curious and harmful both to the fundamental freedoms and to the health of the French. It seems to me, Madam Deputy Minister, that you and the Government should question you. The containment had to be put in place, everyone was waiting for it, the media were on hot coals and, finally, it did not take place. President Macron disavowed his government and the Scientific Council itself, because no assessment has been made for a year. It's absolutely amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u375	That's what you're saying that's absolutely amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u376	Mr Ruffin, you have slammed your fingers to ask for the floor, a gesture that I do not normally appreciate. Since I do not want you to interpret in any way my refusal to give you the floor, I grant it to you. However, you could have called us, as the minister in charge said, and we would have heard you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u377	No, you don't hear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u378	You have the floor, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u379	Mr President, I have allowed myself to slam my fingers like I do with other presiding officers. When, after raising your hand for thirty seconds or even a minute, there was no reaction – and this, because I am in a corner, I do not claim that it is a form of sectarianism towards us – you must draw your attention. I welcome the Minister-in-Office, as she wished, as well as all my fellow Members. I heard Mr. Bournazel invite us to serve the country. However, the way in which Parliament and its representatives are set aside prevents us from doing so. Who should benefit first of all from the few vaccines we have? Could we discuss it together? No. What could be the use of the pharmaceutical industry in our territory? Should we requisition it? Should we have an ex officio license? There is no place to discuss it, to enrich the debate with our knowledge and to get out from the top of this situation. The decision to use Russian or Chinese vaccine is likely to be prepared within the boundaries of the Ministry; the President of the Republic and his council will settle, but without the help of the parliamentarians. How do we organise solidarity actions in our territories with students, young people and not just those who are waiting for food aid? We have ideas; the restaurateurs have ideas. The fact that the National Assembly is ignored prevents us from having a place where we can intervene to build solutions together. Today we are discussing everything that is not directly relevant to the French, while these issues that we are asked to divest ourselves of are of a burning urgency and raise a legitimate concern. Our intervention cannot be regarded as a nuisance, as Mr Bournazel put it; On the contrary, we can offer enrichments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u380	I have before me four deletion amendments, Nos 2, 26, 28 and 39. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u381	Only the deletion of Article 1 is possible. I say again, the long-term state of health emergency is not the only option. How many countries in the world have voted and instituted a state of health emergency to deal with the situation? How many refused to treat the sick? I recalled earlier that the President had disavowed the Scientific Council. I understand this: in 1912, the example of the Titanic showed that science and profit have never done well. The Free Health Coordination, made up of 30,000 doctors in France and as many health professionals, now sheds light on the therapeutic modalities: we can resume a normal life in France, while protecting the French. Since when do doctors, faced with an epidemic, not have the right to treat? Explain it to us once and for all! Let us conduct this debate that has never taken place. I regret that the rapporteur is making fun of himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u382	I'm not kidding, I'm terrified!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u383	These are 30,000 health professionals who today, thanks to their daily experience, accompany their patients and save lives and, as a result, also the hospital. When people are treated at an early age, they do not need to be hospitalized and do not overwhelm the resuscitation beds – which should have been greatly increased a year ago, which has not been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u384	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u385	We wish to delete this article, which provides for the postponement of the expiry of the health emergency regime, originally scheduled for 1 April 2021, until 31 December 2021. As we have been saying since the beginning of the debate, all the measures and instruments necessary for the health response, from our point of view, can be part of the common law. For the past year, you have been unable to propose a lasting legal framework, so you promised it in the many debates we have held on this subject. I'd like to question you on the balance sheet. Once again, you argue that all these tools that suppress and reduce freedoms are necessary to be able to act from a health point of view. However, the balance sheet is more than mixed, if not totally calamitous: France ranks seventy-third out of ninety-eight for its response to the health crisis. If the state of emergency does not offer a real response to the crisis, you have been able, by virtue of its provisions, to reprimand the motorists on the Parisian device, to align fines, to use drones in demonstrations and to restrict freedoms, as well as the Minister of the Interior has so boasted in the media, communicating on these actions. All this, you know how to do it! [[Applause on IF benches]] That's not what will bring the virus back. We have made many proposals that you rejected, certainly considering that only Jupiter, the thaumaturge monarch you were giving us a few months ago, is capable of defeating the virus. We have no rational and objective reason to allow you to establish a perpetual state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u386	Mr Paul Molac has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u387	If I understand correctly, this article aims to give the Government full powers for four months and to leave as a last resort the Scientific Council, the Defence Council and even the President himself to decide what is good for the French. And the decisions I refer to here are not measures, but are part of the area of fundamental freedoms: freedom of assembly, movement and work. Parliament – the National Assembly and the Senate – is the only place where we can decide to limit these freedoms, because together we represent all the French; Only we can make such a decision. That is precisely what we have been asking for since the beginning of the discussions on the state of health emergency and which we have been denied. Of course, I cannot vote full powers in the Government for four months; That would be quite disproportionate, even in the light of the crisis we are going through today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u388	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u389	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u390	I will be brief and will not repeat all the arguments already raised during the general discussion in favour of the deletion of this article, which, I would remind you, extends the state of emergency regime until 31 December 2021. I would like to stress the link between this time frame, which seems to us abnormally long, and the vaccination strategy that we all hope will work. If I believe the explanations for the vaccination strategy, in the spring or in any case before the summer, all those involved in phases 1 to 4, i.e. half of the French, will have to be vaccinated. If we are happy to achieve this objective, the state of emergency could legitimately be reviewed, since it would probably be less justified. Therefore, we do not understand the date of 31 December proposed in this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u391	[[Murmures]] I shall put to the vote these deletion amendments... Ah, sorry, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u392	Not all countries have established a state of health emergency per se, Mrs Wonner; they have called it otherwise, state of emergency or otherwise. The adoption of these amendments would have the effect of extinguishing all measures taken pursuant to the state of health emergency by 1 April. This is not a matter of discussing the content but of the legal framework for the state of health emergency, the extension of which remains subject to Parliament's vote on a regular basis. The senators themselves have validated this prorogation. I would remind you that the legal framework for a state of health emergency was adopted in a trans-party manner by the two Assemblies in March 2020. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u394	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u395	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u396	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT and FI groups]] Mr rapporteur, Madam Minister Delegate, I am not holding a trial of intent, but the fact that you did not speak spontaneously – you did it, Mr rapporteur, after we noticed that you did not speak – is very revealing not of the fact that you are silent, but of a form of trivialisation of the state of emergency. For weeks, we have been talking about a state of emergency and for almost a year now we have been living under a state of emergency. If I take the words of the Minister of Health, it is a technical text, a calendar, a tool – circulate, there is nothing to see. We do not require a legal basis for any intervention by the State, but it must be remembered that the state of emergency in the health sector is an exorbitant right under ordinary law, a right of exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u397	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u398	It's not nothing! For almost a year, we have been living in a state of emergency under which the fundamental freedoms of going and coming, of undertaking, of worship, are framed and even threatened. Whole sections of our positive right, of our ordinary right, relating to social security, to health, but also to labour law, are now suspended, altered and modified by dozens of ordinances. The rapporteur can gratify us with a small opinion, but that is still the least of the things! We believe that the time frame proposed by the Government is too long and we wish to shorten it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u399	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u400	All right! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u402	[[Smile]] Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President – it's not that I didn't want to take it earlier, it's that the president didn't quite give it to me...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u403	It's a good thing to speak! He's benevolent, the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u404	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr.Gosselin, with respect to this amendment, I refer you to the wisdom of your honourable senators, who validated this date of December 31. This was one of the many points of agreement reached at the CMP. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u405	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u406	Be assured, Mr Gosselin, that there is no trivialization on my part; I have too much respect for the parliamentary debate. But when the rapporteur makes all the arguments against amendments aimed at deleting an article on which the bill depends, it is quite normal that I simply give an unfavorable opinion. I repeat, I do not trivialize these measures that are always proportionate to the situation – even if you agree that they must adapt to its evolution – and are never taken with cheerfulness of heart. I therefore believe that we need to keep in our debates and not launch such anathemas. It seems to me that no one wants to live what the executive has to face.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u407	[[Mr. Philippe Gosselin laughs]] Six Members are asking for the floor. I am going to grant it to them, and then, under our Rules of Procedure, I will keep to a maximum of two interventions following the presentation of the various amendments. I make this gesture to allow all sensitivities to express themselves, so do not feel obliged to use the entire two minutes you have. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u408	The trivialization reported by Mr. Gosselin is obvious. But let us say the truth: it concerns not only the minister delegate, the government and the rapporteur, but society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u409	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u410	In the public mind, it seems natural to delegate full powers and postpone the end of the state of emergency from week to week, even from month to month. This is attested to by our very weak debates this evening, which we plan to conclude before dinner or shortly thereafter. However, we are discussing a fundamental issue. Do we once again give full powers to the executive? Will he be able to decide on his own for a new confinement? Will he be able to decide alone that the curfew will no longer begin at 18.00 but at 20.00, before opting again for 18.00? Will he be able to decree alone that the shops will have to close? Basically, we are deciding to put our daily life in the hands of one man. We do not decide the content of the measures, but the container. I repeat, do we agree to put these powers in the hands of one man? And so I see that it seems natural that in times of crisis we would put everything in the hands of the authorities. This banality, pointed out by Mr Gosselin, is now obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u411	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u412	Thank you, Mr. Gosselin, for pointing out how much a state of emergency is not something commonplace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u413	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u414	The Government cannot continue to be given the opportunity to seize this toolbox as it pleases until 31 December. That's enough! There are other ways. Let us trust parliamentarians again! We are not here to always obey a government that would like to continue this way for a long time to come. Remember, the law of 23 March 2020 provided for a sunset clause. But you have completely changed the rules of the game. The French must be able to have confidence again. They fail to make plans and are much more terrified by their social and economic distress than by the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u415	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u416	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] It should be recalled that the Government has nevertheless tabled a bill establishing a permanent health emergency management regime. He did well not put it on the agenda. It appears that he is buried, and I congratulate the Government on that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u417	But the temptation is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u418	Why did you choose the date of December 31? Mr.Véran, whom many criticize, tells us that 70 million French – I didn't know we were 70 million, but no matter what – will be vaccinated by the end of June. I think everyone here heard the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u419	Depends in the morning or in the evening?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u420	So, Madam Deputy Minister, what is the point of extending the state of emergency until 31 December? Let us note in this respect that our colleague Gosselin is sympathetic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u421	He's even nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u422	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and IDU-I groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] ... since it gives you three more months after the end of June, knowing that we can also hope that global warming will help us to stop the health crisis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must support Philippe Gosselin's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u423	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u424	I like when my colleague Charles de Courson greets the violently moderate temperament of the Man of the Channel. I am speaking to you, Madam Minister, since you have been calling me, there are no anathemas, no insults, no provocations or anything. I simply state a truth: there is a trivialization of recourse to a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u425	How many people are dead a day?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u426	That the Government does not pose a problem; No one denies him this possibility. Still happy, by the way, that you were acting! However, we are in an exceptional state that deserves special controls. In a normal democracy, one of the powers is that of Parliament, of national representation. And in a period of crisis, it seems to me that democratic control needs to be further strengthened. Today, however, it is clearly not. It is under the compulsion of events that we find ourselves, certainly on a regular basis, to discuss the state of emergency. From the beginning, we ask for re-visit clauses, but we don't get them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u427	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u428	You say that Parliament has all the power, even though we are on the next or the second day of the abolition of a committee of inquiry which, after giving its report, could continue to work on the question of the state of emergency and the follow-up to the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u429	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u430	There is, therefore, a banality, which makes it important to have short deadlines. Blessed, in this regard, the amendment that we are presenting to you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u431	Thank you, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u432	...and which gives you the opportunity to work during the summer holidays before we see each other again in the fall. September 30 is a good date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u433	The Government has not abolished a commission of inquiry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u434	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u435	The rapporteur tells us that the date of December 31 had the approval of the Senate – so circulate, there is nothing to see. But since the Joint Joint Committee has failed and the text we are considering today in a new reading is not that of the Senate, it is normal for Members to make new proposals on what they think is important. However, the legal basis for the state of health emergency is something very important. The majority of colleagues invite us to observe the health situation and the number of deaths per day. It is clear that the context involves taking measures, including restrictive measures; That's not the point. The question is: for how long can the state of emergency, the legal basis of the policies that are being carried out and the divestiture of Parliament's prerogatives, not be put back on the job? In the end, it is by ease – and we feel it from the beginning – that you set long deadlines. This gives you room for manoeuvre and, in the meantime, Parliament will have only its power to monitor the action of the Government. But we also need to be able to legislate on a regular basis, especially on these exceptional measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u436	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u437	First of all, be assured, dear Martine Wonner, that there is no mockery on the part of our rapporteur. I would like to say that he is fully committed, available and mobilized on his mission, with seriousness and responsibility, while also being able to provide us with his insight as a health professional. Secondly, there is no trivialisation of the state of emergency. We have repeatedly said that this is the sixth time that we have met to discuss it, and we will most likely have to do so again in the coming weeks and months to discuss the implementation of the various measures. I have the feeling that there is also no banality on the part of our fellow citizens, who understand the reality of the situation and the merits of the decisions that must be taken to protect them and keep our hospitals afloat. However, a number of errors were made by the various speakers with regard to the first two articles of the text. We are not debating for the time being the date of the end of the state of emergency, but the extension of the state of emergency regime. We have all created it here and continue to shape it as the crisis unfolds. Finally, Mr. de Courson, there will be a bill establishing a sustainable health emergency management regime that we will have to deal with. The decision has been taken to discuss this subject only once the crisis is behind us, so as to enjoy absolute serenity and to be able to learn all the lessons from the management of this crisis. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u438	Before I put this amendment to the vote, I would remind you that it will be the only one on which we will have such extensive debates. We will now apply the rules to the letter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u439	I have before me four amendments, Nos 11, 18, 43 and 8, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 18 and 43 are identical. You have the floor, Mr Gosselin, to support Amendment No 11, and I would ask you to respect the two-minute limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u440	Yeah, but there's no chronometer. If there was one, we'd better hold on to time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u441	In that case, look at me and you'll see if you get to the end of your time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u442	[[Laughs]] You don't have a chrono head, Mr. President, even though you may look like Cronos, a wonderful god. Anyway, I hope you'll count that part of my two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u443	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u444	Thank you for your kindness. The purpose of this amendment is to restore measures protecting public and individual freedoms that had been adopted by the Senate. We are here seeking to prevent the prohibition of meetings in the places of residence, or to impose the intervention of a JLD – judge of freedoms and detention – after fourteen days of quarantine or isolation imposed at home, which seems to us to be the minimum in a state governed by the rule of law. In its bad wisdom, the Law Commission has removed these provisions while protecting freedoms. We are told that it is appropriate to go back to the original text, but, rapporteur, minister delegate, even if you disagree with the Senate, let us nevertheless keep the best of what had been put on the table. It is not because the Joint Joint Committee has not been concluded that one should not be respectful of public and individual freedoms. The JLD is not an invention of the LR group during the state of health emergency, but a judge who exists to ensure the freedoms and, where appropriate, the conditions of detention. It has a real usefulness in a democratic state and even more so when we are in a state of health emergency. We may disagree with the Senate on other matters, but in the interests of freedoms and the rule of law, we must at least join in these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u445	I call Mr Guillaume Larrivé to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u446	It is intended to retain two suggestions from the Senate that I find useful. The first would give parliamentary committees the power to formally refer the matter to the Scientific Council. The second would be to give the Government the authority to determine the modalities for the appointment of the members of the Council and its rules, particularly with regard to conflicts of interest. I suspect the National Assembly will reject this amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u447	You mustn't doubt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u448	... since this session is obviously dedicated to recording the choices of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u449	The naughty word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u450	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u451	I regret this because I would have liked – I have repeatedly demonstrated this through my votes – that we are collectively able to face this health crisis in a spirit of federation of the nation's efforts. [[Smile]] Deputy Minister, the Senate is not an assembly of punks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u452	Whatever, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u453	Gérard Larcher, we're talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u454	It is a responsible and reasonable assembly, and the way in which its proposals are systematically rejected, or almost, is rather regrettable. It can be deduced that you are in no way seeking the construction of any trans-party consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u455	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u456	In the same spirit, we believe that these two provisions adopted by the Senate deserve to be included in the text. Their adoption would allow the Parliament to hear regularly the members of the Scientific Council and to form its own opinion and, on the other hand, to prevent situations that would call into question the credibility of the Council or of some of its members – and thus, by implication, that of the decisions taken by the Government. It is therefore a precautionary measure that we propose to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u457	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u458	Let me first tell you what my surprise was when I heard many of our colleagues vituperate against the state of emergency: these colleagues failed the flash mission led by Mr Gosselin and myself. Their participation in its work would have been welcome, as would their proposals to change the legal regime of the state of emergency. That comment seemed useful to me in the debate. This amendment, which I am presenting with Philippe Gosselin, is a direct result of the work of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u459	It makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u460	The specificity of this amendment lies in the fact that it only reproduces from the Senate version the measure allowing parliamentary committees to refer the matter to the Scientific Council, in particular to be informed about the health situation as is the Government and to be able to adopt measures accordingly. This provision, which I had proposed at first reading, had been taken up by the Senate and was included in the draft submitted to the Joint Joint Committee. I hope that it will be incorporated into the text that we will adopt. The amendment does not, however, repeat the statement that a decree determines the ethical rules applicable to the members of the Scientific Council, because I was convinced by the comment made by the Minister at first reading: the Council being already constituted and consecrated for the crisis we are going through, changing its composition and changing the rules of the game along the way would not make much sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u461	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u462	Mr Gosselin, in a negotiation, everyone must bring something in order to try to achieve a common outcome. I assure you that we have put many elements in the balance. If, in spite of everything, no agreement is reached, everyone goes back to their camp and discussions resume in each room.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u463	We could still keep the best of the enrichment proposed, Mr rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u464	We had made proposals, for example by accepting the principle of referral to the Scientific Council, provided that this possibility was left to the President of each chamber, not to the presidents of the parliamentary committees. Let's move on. I will issue a comprehensive opinion on these amendments, which are intended to re-establish, in whole or in part, the wording of clause 1 proposed by the Senate. Let us be clear: I do not want us to anticipate the legitimate and important debate that will take place in the context of the review of the bill establishing a sustainable health emergency management regime. When the time comes – i.e. cold, at the end of the crisis – we will have to take stock and determine how to improve the state of health emergency regime according to the situations that might arise, and which will not necessarily involve a coronavirus, but perhaps something else. In the immediate future, I do not want us to examine this issue through the little bit of the lorgnette, at the risk of weakening what works: even if I do not assume the relevance of some of the suggested changes, let us not forget that the framework of the state of health emergency remains satisfactory and that it is essential to preserve it in order to continue the fight against the epidemic. Finally, I also do not want us to change the rules along the way, particularly with regard to the composition of the Scientific Council, whose members, in my view, are doing important and difficult work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u465	No one's contesting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u466	They have the power to enlighten us, but it is up to us, politicians, to decide. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u467	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u468	It is against these amendments, which are intended to go back to elements that we have already discussed. On the other hand, the enrichments that you evoke and that we are obliged to reject today...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u469	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u470	... will of course be incorporated into the text we are considering in order to establish a permanent emergency management regime. I recall that we are still in the midst of a health crisis. However, a balance sheet is usually made at the end of the period under review.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u471	Relevant elements can be integrated now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u472	These enrichments, which we also agree with, will be incorporated into the coming bill. I'd like you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u473	As I have announced, I will only take two speakers on these amendments, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u474	These amendments, which are intended to allow Parliament to refer the matter to the Scientific Council, and which even members of the majority support, seem to me to be of great interest. To discuss the extension of the state of health emergency or the organisation of the departmental and regional elections in June, for example, it would still be interesting if we could directly ask the Scientific Council for its opinion. This seems to me to be a measure of common sense: why would the executive have only access to these opinions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u475	The debate would be all the more serene!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u476	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u477	We are discussing important things here. At this moment, I want to raise several points. First, it is not because we are trying to get you to consider improvements to the state of health emergency that we are opposed to this regime. I am one of the elected representatives who have voted on several occasions in favour of a state of health emergency and who are now questioning, precisely because you do not want to improve it. I wonder about the extension period, which I find abnormal, but also about the role of the Scientific Council which everyone saw last week engaged in a form of hasty, hasty media staging, contradicting their own statements and those of the Government within three days, which, in my view, partly disqualifies them as wise advice from the Government. Not allowing Members – who still represent nothing less than the French – to question the Scientific Council directly seems to me abnormal. Nor is it acceptable to reject the adoption of this measure on the grounds that we would incorporate it into a subsequent law establishing a permanent state of emergency. Last point: Madam Chair of the Law Commission, the French need to be accompanied in order to continue to accept the very difficult situation that we are all going through. However, accompanying the French means allowing parliamentary debates to come to an end and oppositions – because they still exist – to accompany you in this direction. If not, who knows what will happen in our country in the days or weeks to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u478	[[Smile]] It was Laurent Fabius who taught me: when a sitting chairman announces firmly that he will stick to two speakers, he is immediately denied. The President of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u479	I recall that the law we passed in March 2020 explicitly provided for weekly information from Parliament on actions taken by the Government under the state of health emergency. On the other hand, we already have the opportunity to conduct any hearing that we consider useful to inform the discussions. That is what we have done on several occasions. Mr. Delfraissy was heard. The Law Committee also heard from Mr Cauchemez, epidemiologist member of the Scientific Council, on the StopCovid application.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u480	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u481	We have to go beyond that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u482	It is sufficient that any standing committee of the Assembly convenes a member of the Scientific Council or its chairman for this hearing to take place. It is therefore wrong to claim that Parliament cannot audition the Scientific Council, or that we refuse these hearings. One last thing: many speakers referred to the Joint Joint Committee, in which some of you and I participated. Everyone will, I believe, be able to bear witness to the efforts of the majority to reach an agreement: we were particularly committed to the conclusion of the CMP, precisely to demonstrate to our fellow citizens a moment of national unity on these health issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u483	But of course...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u484	Unfortunately, this did not happen. In all logical terms, the parliamentary debate is continuing, and the positions we expressed at first reading are resuming their full strength. That's what's going on right now, don't you mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u485	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u486	I am withdrawing my amendment in favour of the excellent amendment No 8 by Messrs. Houlié and Gosselin, to show that I am not defending a mere partisan position here. I would like to take the floor for a moment to respond to the Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: we have understood well – we have been Members for eight or nine years, or even more for some, since we are doubling our mandates through universal suffrage – that your capacity allows you to request the hearing of a particular person. The challenge, however, is not just that: to consult the Scientific Council as a college, including by asking for a written contribution, to enrich our understanding of the technical and scientific aspects of the health crisis, and to act responsibly. I very much regret that the Members of the majority are about to follow – quite docilely, I must say – the Government's opinion by rejecting Mr Houlié's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u487	News AFP: Sacha Houlié is excluded from La République en marche!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u488	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, who is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u489	Before our colleagues' amendments to delete Article 2, and even if all the arguments have already been put forward, I would remind you that it extends the state of emergency until 1 June. I agree with what our colleague from Courson said earlier: although the decision has not yet been decided, in June it is supposed to take place nothing less than regional and departmental elections. Adopting the article as it stands, without giving itself the opportunity to discuss in the meantime the need to extend the state of emergency or not and to decide collectively, is in fact preventing the organization of the elections. Because finally, how can we plan elections without a moment of deliberation? I recall that elections are not limited to voting day: an election is democratic only to the extent that it is possible to exchange arguments during the weeks preceding the election. It's called campaigning. But how do we campaign in our good old country? Meetings are held in cafes – they are closed. We organize public meetings and events – that's impossible. We do door-to-door discussions with citizens – everyone knows that at the moment, all this is very difficult, if not impossible. What are the consequences of this? This vote must not be taken lightly. We need to exchange arguments rationally. On the contrary, as has already been said, we see the development of a very poor pedagogy: we are accustomed to the fact that decisions which take the convocation of the sovereign people or not are left in the hands of a minority, whereas it is in this Chamber that they should be taken. This is where we should be discussing it, even though we may be making difficult decisions. That is why we cannot adopt this article unless we flout democracy. I repeat: we can only decide whether or not to call 45 million French to the polls if we have all the necessary elements. Once again, the lightness with which this assembly is about to prolong the state of emergency in health shows that these elections are being reduced to little. That's pretty disturbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u490	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u491	It is true that the extension of the state of health emergency until 1 June raises questions. What will happen as of June 2nd? Will we, in the meantime, have passed the law definitively establishing a state of emergency in the common law, or will we finally be able to give the French and the French their fundamental freedoms? On what scientific and epidemiological criteria do you continue to want to lock up the French, and thereby flout democracy? If we want to organize regional elections worthy of this name, we must indeed restore the French to the capacity to debate in the territories. Yet, what have you done, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? You voted, not later than last week, to abolish the National Assembly's fact-finding mission on the management of the health crisis. Why? It was particularly important to evaluate other therapeutic strategies than the vaccine strategy. I am not opposed to this strategy, but everyone sees how difficult it is to deploy in France compared to other countries: we have vaccinated very few people. There is therefore an urgent need to propose something else, and above all to live again in a democratic country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u492	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-02-O1146.u493	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the re-reading of the bill authorizing the extension of the state of health emergency; Further to the discussion of the draft law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
