ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law ratifying Ordinance No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code (No. 3831).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u2	Mr Terlier, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u3	The bill ratifying Order No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code was the subject of an agreement between the Senate and the National Assembly at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee on 4 February.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u5	I want to thank Senator Agnès Canayer, the text rapporteur for the Senate, for the sincerity and quality of our discussions. This reform, long awaited by the professionals to whom I wish to pay tribute for their unwavering commitment to youth, has been too delayed. This is a particular bill, because we are being asked to ratify an order. In this case, Parliament has taken its full place: I would like to thank you, Minister of Justice, and your predecessor, Mrs Nicole Belloubet, for you have had the courage to initiate this reform and to keep your promise to fully involve parliamentarians in it. I now come to the presentation of the content of the text on which the Senate and the National Assembly have agreed. As a reminder, the creation of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors had three main objectives: to enshrine the main principles recognized by the Constitutional Council and to bring France in line with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child – CIDE; establish a simpler, faster and more legible procedure for minors by generalizing the criminal procedure; reorganize the applicable provisions to allow the juvenile judge to be tailor-made. The Senate has retained most of the contributions of the National Assembly. These include the compulsory presence of the lawyer at free hearings, the prohibition of the use of video conferencing for pre-trial detention, the extension of the curfew measure, the possibility of visual inspection of the personal effects of minors placed in custody, the possibility for the judge to order the withdrawal of the other parties when examining the minor's personal situation and the simplification of the rules for the cumulation of educational measures and penalties. The Senate has also enriched the text transmitted by the National Assembly by adopting new provisions that reflect the different political sensitivities on the subject. We have retained several of these, the most important being the postponement to September 30, 2021 of the coming into force of the Order. The inclusion in the law of the definition of discernment also seemed to us judicious as it is a founding pillar of the new architecture of the code. The same applies to the possibility of digitizing the personality file and giving it access to the staff of the authorized voluntary sector: this will facilitate the flow of information between the players in the juvenile criminal justice system. For the sake of clarification, we have adopted a series of provisions adopted by the Senate: the date of implementation of the educational measures will have to be communicated to the minor at the end of his or her guilty hearing; legal representatives may be summoned by any means; the rules for erasing the criminal record of waivers of measures and declarations of success will be relaxed; In addition to the fine, the parental responsibility course may be pronounced against parents who are not summoned. The text before you reproduces these various contributions. On four points, however, we have come back to the text voted by the National Assembly. First, we have re-established the jurisdiction of the police court for the first four classes of contraventions that the Senate wished to restore to the children's judge. Secondly, we have re-established the jurisdiction of the Justice of Liberties and Detention – JLD – over the supervision of pretrial detention, in order to guarantee a fair trial without putting small courts in difficulty. Thirdly, we went back to the principled competence that the Senate had assigned to the institutions of the regulated voluntary sector because, if it is essential, we cannot entrust it with all the measures taken by the PJJ – judicial protection of young people – especially those that fall within the scope of the State's sovereign mission. Finally, in the interests of readability, we have removed the Senate's re-establishment of parenting, as the new judicial warning will perform the same function. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, SOC and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text presents the best of the work of both chambers. We will pay attention to the quality of the implementation of this reform, one of the most ambitious of the quinquennium: we will, as parliamentarians, provide all the necessary support for its proper application by the courts. Thank you for listening and urge you to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u6	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u7	I am particularly honoured to be before you for the final adoption by the National Assembly of a text dedicating a historic advance for the criminal justice of minors in France, the one ratifying the order of 11 September 2019. Tomorrow, it will be the Senate's turn to decide on the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee – which, I can only congratulate, has reached an agreement. This will be the culmination of the debates that have animated us for long hours here, but also for several years, even decades, of work, as I have often said before you. I cannot begin my remarks without paying a strong tribute to the work of my predecessor, Nicole Belloubet. The special conditions of the beginning of this reform did not suggest such a success. This result is your common work, his, but, I have the immodestity to believe it, also a little mine. I therefore want to tell him and tell you my pride and emotion in bringing the Government's commitments to a construction that I believe will be a landmark. While the consensus achieved shows the work and involvement of all, it highlights our ability to span the divides when the essential – the future of our children – is at stake. You have been convinced by the needs of this reform and, taking into account the strong expectations of our fellow citizens with regard to juvenile justice, you have been able to overcome positions that are sometimes historically rooted. That is why you can be proud to adopt a text that, beyond cartoons, radically modernises juvenile criminal justice by giving it the framework it has long been waiting for, strengthening the primacy of education while allowing for a coherent and supervised criminal response within procedural deadlines. I keep in mind the lively debates on the concept of the best interests of the minor, now introduced in the preliminary article of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors. I would also like to point out that parliamentary debates, both here and in the Senate, have greatly enriched the text, while fears of a muzzled debate have been expressed, so that was not the case. Again, I should like to thank you, Mr Jean Terlier, for your tireless commitment to the success of this text, and for the same reason, Mrs Alexandra Louis. I would also like to send a particularly strong greeting to all the members of the contact group, who have expressed the voice of their political group for many months, thus making possible the convergence that we all called for. I note from our exchanges the common desire to strengthen confidence in the specialisation of children's professionals, in particular that of children's judges, which has been the subject of intense debate. One of them had as its object the jurisdiction of the police court, ultimately limited to only minor offences. You also made the choice of the balance between specialization and impartiality of the judge, by transferring to the JLD the competence of remanding the minor before the sentence of guilt. Finally, I would like to recall the importance of the debate on the presumption of liability at the age of thirteen, a complex issue which, again, has found a balanced answer, namely the maintenance of a simple presumption which leaves to the specialized judge the analysis of discernment in the case and according to a definition now included in the legislative part of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors. There is now a new stage in the implementation of the reform: its entry into force was postponed at the end of the parliamentary shuttle to 30 September 2021. Be assured that this additional time will be used by all the services of the Ministry of Justice to train the actors on the ground. Additional resources have been allocated upstream and the accompanying mission of the General Inspectorate of Justice will continue in the coming months to all courts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The sign of your accession to the text is the first essential step towards the successful implementation of the reform. I solemnly commit myself here to do everything in my power so that we can soon welcome together the benefits of this historic reform for judges, educators, parents and, above all, our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u8	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u9	In the end, there will not be much left of the discussions with the Senate, except for the delay of 30 September 2021 in the implementation of the reform, which is strongly demanded on these benches, the state of the means of justice and the PJJ – despite the few efforts made by the Government, we are extremely far from the point of view in this matter – not allowing its implementation as early as 31 March next. This reform enshrines a technocratic vision of justice based on flow management. The aim is to move faster, the acceleration of the procedures being, in principle in your eyes, a guarantee of better judgments. As if the demonstration was enough for itself. The congestion of the courts, specifically for minors, leads to a flight forward: "Come on, come on, hurry up, the piles of files are starting to build up! " This can be seen with last November's circular asking for their clean-up – as if, in the end, the work done so far had no kind of importance; as if the reset button could be pressed in spite of the human beings, in this case the children, who are behind each of these files. As for specialization, which was supposed to guide our work and whose introductory article recalls the principle, it will have broken down on the police court. However, the senators had put it on the front of the stage, but all this disappeared during the Joint Committee. Why? In the corridors, I am told that specialization, ideally, would be perfect, "but you understand my good gentleman, we do not have the means, the children's judges are already overloaded enough, let the police court put fines, however educational they may be... The repressive prism has therefore logically taken over our work, since we are not talking about a children's code, but about a code of juvenile criminal justice. It can only be seen that you have had the right-wing consent in the Senate to do so – which was not won. I will let you draw the necessary political conclusions. Above all, perhaps more surprising – and which is probably the cause of the minister's fury – is the exitus given by Marine Le Pen, who approves this text, as she reminded the same rostrum. Funny duo, funny tandem that's here: Eric Dupond-Moretti and Marine Le Pen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u10	Well...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u11	We referred to an age – at least 13 years – below which a minor would be the subject of an irreflagable presumption of non-consent and therefore could not be subject to criminal measures. To this claim of several deputies or senators and of what is known as civil society, it was said that even under the age of 13, it was necessary to be able to assess the discernment of a minor. You never know! By the way, I was surprised that the minister, from the beginning of our work, justified his rejection of this irrefragable presumption by the fact that minors who commit offences or crimes need to see a judge. What a disgrace! As if only minors who could be subject to criminal measures were confronted with the judge! This is to ignore what a child judge does: most of the time, he does not criminal, but civil, educational assistance measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u12	Yeah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u13	That's what he does every day. I'll tell you again, minister, in case you find out. For my part, what I discovered when I saw France 3's report on social assistance for children is the consequences of the most often pronounced educational measures: children placed in homes in conditions that make us wonder how they will be able to get out of life. Thus, by voting this technocratic text of flow management, one does not just miss history: one misses the suffering of many children. Since time is running out,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u14	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u15	...I will end by saying that a child who commits a crime or an offence is first and it remains a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u16	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u17	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u18	"Bandit! Voyou! Thief! Chenapan! "What are these screams about? "Bandit! Voyou! Thief! Chenapan! "It's the pack of honest people " Who hunts for the child. " Almost a century has passed since the mutiny of the Bagnard children of Belle-Île-en-Mer, told by Jacques Prévert in his famous poem. Since then, many things have fortunately changed; The judicial protection of young people was largely built, with the 1945 Ordinance, against what prevailed a decade earlier. Yet a century later, with each different fact, with every drama involving juvenile delinquents, the same virtual pack – "the gendarmes, tourists, annuitants, artists" –, spurred by politicians and media leaders, launched a repressive auction. However, delinquent childhood is first and foremost a child at risk and the protection of children and young people is notoriously failing. One in five children lives below the poverty line, or nearly 3 million; This figure has not declined in ten years and is likely to increase massively in the coming months. At least 75,000 children are ill-treated each year; a child dies every five days under the blows of his or her parents; 165,000 are victims of rape or sexual violence each year. Such violence affects all social circles. In many departments, such as Indre-et-Loire, where it is 14 months before a child at risk is protected, social assistance for children is over-solicited and under-funded. One in four homeless people is a former child placed; 30% of the under-30s using temporary accommodation and free food services are former and former members of ESA – child welfare. However, while the means of social assistance and support are still insufficient, youth protection professionals are still deploring more repression and less judicial education. In the rostrum signed last December by more than 200 of them, they call on parliamentarians not to give in to the sham of parliamentary debate represented by this text, which is useless as well as dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u19	Ouch, ouch, ouch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u20	A simulacre of debate all at once, so much so is the absence of real consultation with actors and actresses on the ground. These are their words you refuse to hear, minister. But you don't mind, they are a sign of how much the Government and the majority don't care about the democratic debate, as has been the case with all the reactionary reforms that have taken place since the beginning of the quinquennium despite the so-called consultations to get them approved. The choice of the route of orders, combined with an accelerated procedure which reduces Parliament to the rank of registration chamber, according to Jupiter's wishes, goes in the same direction. In substance, contrary to the words of the Minister of the Interior, who speaks lengthily of ensauvagement, juvenile delinquency has been steadily decreasing since the 2000s. However, the detention rate is very high, demonstrating the severity of the juvenile criminal justice system, while repression should be the exception. France is already Europe's most repressive country in this field; This text is taking him even further in this direction. As Mr Bernalicis has pointed out, this reform is in fact motivated only by accounting objectives, together with some elements of electorism and the now proven ideological adherence of Macronia to the ideas of the extreme right and the extreme right. Going faster with fewer staff, this is the antiquity applied over the past three years to almost all sectors. However, the only way to speed up trial time without increasing the number of accused is ultimately to reduce the basic rights of the accused – children in this case. This is the choice made by the Government by relegating the cardinal principle of juvenile justice as a simple exception, which constitutes the excuse of a minority. Juvenile justice is lacking among magistrates and magistrates, clerks and clerks, workers and social workers. The protection of minors also lacks human and financial resources, which would prevent the commission of criminal offences, since 85 per cent of the children cared for by a judge and by the judicial protection of young people do not reoffend by a majority. [[Rires on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The acceleration of the criminal response, presented as progress, is actually taking place at the expense of educational time. This reform reinforces the gradual abandonment of the specificity of juvenile justice, with an alignment with the justice of adults. "France is not rich enough of children to have the right to neglect anything that can make them healthy. The preamble to the 1945 Order was proclaimed. Your text, Minister, continues to abandon this maxim. Once in power, we will see to it that we return his letters of nobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u21	I wouldn't like to be a child at that time...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u22	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u23	We have come to the conclusion of a long process that has led us, seventy-five years later, to come back to a landmark order: the one of February 2, 1945 on delinquent childhood. The work that preceded the revision that was to be completed had already begun a long time ago. It was your illustrious predecessor, Christiane Taubira, who had initiated a process of consultation on juvenile justice, taking up the method used for the criminal reform of 2014 or for the drafting of the law of 18 November 2016. Mrs. Belloubet continued the work and you finish it, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. Many professionals, academics, elected officials, representatives of the community and many civil society actors have mobilized. A state of knowledge has been drawn up in order to overcome the presuppositions and misunderstandings, fears and fantasies, which make the young offender one of the contemporary figures of evil, in the words of the previous president of the law commission, Dominique Raimbourg. He had mobilized very early on on this subject, particularly in connection with his participation in the Varinard Commission. First of all, I mean that our society bears the responsibility for the future of its youth, especially the one who is experiencing the most difficulties. In order to adapt the 1945 order, which I had the opportunity to point out that it had inspired many of our European neighbours, we must retain the fundamental principle that inspired it, that of the primacy of education over repression, because a teenager is not an adult and because society has the responsibility to educate him and make him his place as a citizen. Let us recall the warning of the defender of rights, Jacques Toubon: "...to want to charge justice with everything that society is not able to do elsewhere, is to ensure both the failure of society and that of justice. This is especially the case when it comes to juvenile criminal justice. » Juvenile justice has undergone significant changes since its inception in 1945; I will not go into it in detail, but I just want to mention the main turning points. The first was carried out in the early 1990s with the legal recognition of the reparation measure. This measure is now the subject of consensus among justice professionals and its development has been important. A pedagogical and civic approach considers the responsibility of the minor as the purpose of an educational act; the judge and the educator work to gradually awaken the young person's responsibility and abilities. Despite this, the public debate continues to focus on increasing the criminalization of responses to juvenile delinquency. The second turning point came later, with the systematic treatment of all offences committed by minors before the courts. The significant increase in the criminal treatment of offences committed by minors and the succession of more repressive laws could have led to an increase in the highest penalties, including prison decisions. Although the number of minors placed in more restrictive institutions has not finally increased, there has been a sharp increase in the number of minors placed in more restrictive institutions. Gradually, in the proposed measures, the sanction has been incorporated into the objective of educating minors. This new balance is unstable, which the reform proposed today does not remedy. Of course, we had to clear the 1945 order from the inconsistencies accumulated over the course of the many changes, especially since they only widened the gap between the spirit of the original text and its difficult application. But we also had to maintain its philosophy. The philosophy of the 1945 Ordinance was to take into account the child's personality and environment, in the most general sense. At the time, there were families in great pain and children wandering the streets. Today's world is marked by its complexity; it has become the environment of the child and it is very difficult to answer the question of what is right in the society that surrounds it. Inequalities of chance or treatment are so great that sometimes the reparation will be experienced by the young person as an aggravation of the situation. Therefore, there can be no good sanction without prior education; If a sanction is necessary, it must be part of a dynamic made up equally of educational and curative elements, even in the case of the most serious sanctions. The reform resulting from the ordinance of 11 September 2020, whose legislative path ends, confirms a trend: to ensure that juvenile justice complies with the rules of adults, with multiple references to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. A certain porosity was invited between juvenile and adult justice; The multiple procedural exceptions that relegate the educative to the background are proof of this. The primary objective of juvenile justice is to remove juvenile offenders from the juvenile justice system; A further goal is to make them able to fulfil their role in society tomorrow. I am divided between the doubt that it meets these requirements, and the never-forsaken hope that it will succeed. The answer is in the hands of those who will give him his true face throughout the judicial chain. The future will tell us whether the trust we give them will suffice to erase the vices of this text. In the meantime, for me, abstention remains a position of wisdom, even if it was necessary to finally reach a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u24	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u25	A child offender is above all a juvenile at risk: this is the idea that inspired the drafters of the Ordinance of 2 February 1945 on delinquent childhood. However, the new juvenile criminal justice code that we are asked to adopt is, in our view, moving away from the ambitious choices for the future of the child in difficulty made in the aftermath of the Liberation, which established a balanced response combining education, prevention and repression. This new Code is in fact a departure from the spirit of the 1959 Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which states: "The child, because of his or her lack of physical and intellectual maturity, needs special protection and special care, including appropriate legal protection". He also distances himself from the humanistic inspiration that does not consider the delinquent child to be a miniature adult, and wants his actions not to be judged in the same way. In addition, for delinquent children, educational measures are the core of the judicial response, and measures to lock up the exception; However, the exceptions to the ordinary law on juvenile delinquents make it possible to apply a criminal procedure which is similar to that of adults. To improve the speed of the criminal response of minors, we do not need a new text, the solutions are known. For example, it is a matter of responding to the judges of the Bobigny Children's Court, who are calling loud and clear for the vacant posts of judges and clerks to be filled: they manage on average 600 cases, more than double what is humanly possible to follow. There is also a need to strengthen the judicial protection of young people in order to overcome the shortage of educators and the abyssal delay in the implementation of measures ordered by the courts. Far from the spin-off effects, ending the rampant impoverishment of the criminal justice of minors would be far more effective than a new reform carried out without real diagnosis, in emergency, and in catini. A few provisions deserve to be welcomed, in particular that resulting from an amendment by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which provides that every child heard may be assisted by a lawyer, even in the event of a free hearing. However, several advances made during the shuttle were evacuated to the Joint Joint Committee, such as entrusting a juvenile judge, not the judge of liberty and detention, the decision to place a child in pre-trial detention, or the decision to give the juvenile judge the responsibility for the least serious violations – it was finally entrusted to the police court. On the other hand, all the pitfalls, unanimously designated by the professionals of children at risk, are confirmed: the derogations and exceptions are legion, and the new procedure of caesure is framed by unrealistic deadlines, which are therefore inapplicable in the state of our juvenile justice. In the absence of means, and because of the congestion of the courts, there will be a great temptation for prosecutors to resort to the single hearing. Finally, what about the postponement to 30 September of the entry into force of the reform? The date of March 31 was obviously impossible to respect, but who can imagine that our justice will be ready six months later? As the Joint Joint Committee has pointed out, this reform will only be applicable if it is accompanied by the human and material resources that we are still waiting for. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The work of the committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth, of which Marie-George Buffet was the rapporteur, highlighted the need to redefine the missions, role and cooperation links of social assistance for children. We could have done this if we had worked on a real code for children, dealing with children at risk as a whole, from civil to criminal, as requested by the UN Committee of Experts. That is what our society needs. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This debate is therefore a missed meeting, and that is why we will vote against the ratification of the Order. We regret it, but we consider that our country is not rich enough of its children to afford such a grudge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u26	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u27	What is more important than our children, our young people, our minots, as we say in Marseilles? What response should our justice provide to adolescents who violate the law, and sometimes even challenge it? In my present life and in my past life as a lawyer, like others, I have often met, sometimes even accompanied: there is no simple answer to adapt to the singular life paths, sometimes tortuous, of teenagers who, despite their young age, have sometimes lived a lot. Justice must therefore be able to respond on a case-by-case basis to the very principles underlying the 1945 order. The new Juvenile Criminal Justice Code is the result of a long and substantive work. The observation was simple and shared for a long time: the ordinance of 1945, reformed at about forty occasions, had lost in readability and consistency. It can be said that the path has been long, and even laborious; The juvenile criminal justice code was first an idea, then a project, and after years of progress, consultation and debate, there it is. We can agree that this is a historic and expected outcome; the previous governments had begun to do so, with the committee chaired by Mr André Varinard and the work of Mrs Christiane Taubira; Many parliamentary proceedings have fed into the reflection – I obviously welcome the work of Mr.Michel Amiel in the Senate, as well as the rich report by our rapporteur, Jean Terlier, and by Cécile Untermaier, whom I thank. Nicole Belloubet committed to the realization of this project, I take this opportunity to thank her for having had this audacity. It convened a contact group, inviting parliamentarians from all political groups. All of them responded favourably, with the exception of those who now ask for the rejection of the text – proof, if necessary, that even before they knew the content of the code, they were already opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u28	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u29	This contact group, which met on several occasions, allowed constructive work, which was the basis for a rich parliamentary debate. We lived in committee, and then in session, very beautiful moments of debate, even if I concede their sometimes repetitive character – we all praised the art of repetition. I would like to thank you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, for putting this draft code at the heart of your mission, and for showing a spirit of listening in this House. The text has thus been considerably improved and enriched, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate; He is the heir of the 1945 Ordinance, for he has kept its essence, grating in the marble of the law the principles inherent in the criminal justice of minors: the primacy of education, specialization and the mitigation of criminal responsibility. This code gives a new pace to the procedure, allowing an effective and rapid criminal response, and an educational response that must be sustained. It gives the victims their real place, simplifying their actions and, above all, providing that they will obtain a court decision within a reasonable period of three months. It grants minors to have, as far as possible, throughout the proceedings, the same juvenile judge, the same lawyer and the same educator. It brings us into line with international law by establishing a presumption of non-discernment for children under 13 years of age. It simplifies educational measures and penalties, so that the judge has a palette to answer each minor on a case-by-case basis. In the course of the discussions, the text was therefore improved; in the preliminary article we have devoted the best interests of the child; we have abolished the possibility of derogation, including on an exceptional basis, from the systematic assistance of the minor by a lawyer, in the context of a free hearing; we have reaffirmed the role of the judge of freedoms and detention in issuing pre-trial detention, which is a serious act, in order to comply with the principle of impartiality; we have guaranteed the principle of functional specialization for all actors in juvenile justice, including this famous judge of liberty and detention, who intervenes in the placement of the minor; Finally, at the request of many professionals, it was decided to postpone the entry into force of this reform until 30 September 2021. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I thank all professionals, magistrates, clerks, educators, lawyers – all those who allow juvenile justice to function on a day-to-day basis: whatever text we vote for, without them, it will never reach its fullness. Finally, as we mentioned in the debates, I would like to stress, particularly to your attention, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, my hope that this code of juvenile criminal justice will only be the cornerstone of the future construction of a real code for minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u30	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u31	The adoption of a code of juvenile criminal justice is a clarification that is more than welcome because, yes, our juvenile justice system has suffered for several years from numerous shortcomings, which the critics stress: too slow, inadequate, engorged, misunderstood by all – by the French first, by the main actors, then, namely the minors, who too often fear it or do not respect it. The duality to which it is subjected – the desire to educate and the need to crack down on criminal acts – and the lack of resources and the occurrence of ever more violent crimes and offences have deprived it over time of credibility, both in the eyes of the defenders of the "all educational" and those of the "all repressive". A society that has more repeaters than repeaters has failed justice, and this failure, we can only see it. Finally, the criminal justice of minors is misunderstood by professionals, who are no longer there, due to a cruel lack of means and tools of work; They denounce the lack of effectiveness of the response to the delinquent act. The thirty-nine amendments to the Ordinance of February 2, 1945 relating to juvenile delinquents are only evidence of this. The text that we are going to adopt codifies and simplifies juvenile criminal justice for professionals, for all actors, but also for all French people. The objective is commendable, but it still lacks ambition. Another intention was to offer more appropriate justice; The account isn't quite there. It is undoubtedly the case with regard to the volume and the need for rapid responses, but it is less so in its reaction to the acts committed and to their particular violence, alas, increasingly present, as it is not sufficiently present in the need for civil and social peace of our fellow citizens. We could probably have gone further in this area, thanks to the proposals of the Republicans Group, by giving our judges greater confidence in their ability to give an appropriate response to the cases before them, which would probably have allowed us to lift the presumption of irresponsibility for minors under 13 years of age, and the excuse of a minority for minors over 16 years of age. However, it must be noted that this reform is nevertheless necessary, at least as a first step. The simplification of the procedure with a single method of prosecution, the acceleration of the period of judgement at the end of the investigation within ten days to three months after the summons, and the imposition of the sanction within six to nine months are real advances. We owe answers to the authors for more pedagogy; to victims and society for more justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u32	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u33	The introduction of appropriate and effective probation measures will strengthen the care of minors in order, we hope, to stem the delinquent spiral of some, and to prevent the recurrence of criminal acts, never punished or, in many cases, too late. There is, of course, a need to improve the consideration of victims, and educational measures and sanctions cannot be imposed without considering what the victim has suffered. Compensation and reparation for harm must be swift, to reconcile our fellow citizens with juvenile justice. It is important to place the victim at the heart of the proceedings, together with the minor: these measures were indispensable. We are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement. The postponement of the entry into force of the reform to 30 September will give the professionals time to prepare. Not all of them are ready, since, in ten jurisdictions, the backlog of cases delayed by the health crisis remains large: premature entry into force would exacerbate the difficulties associated with the need for double hearing in the transition period. The necessary means will have to be deployed to ensure that the deadlines for judgement are respected, which is key to the success of the reform. While it takes an average of 18 months for a young person to be tried, a two-stage trial, the criminal break, will enable him to decide on the minor's guilt within a maximum of three months. Victims will be able to start receiving compensation from this first phase. This will increase the effectiveness of educational work, since the minor will have become aware of the scope of the act committed. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Jean Terlier, rapporteur, also applauds]] Let us hope, therefore, that the future Code of Juvenile Criminal Justice will really help to shorten trial time and improve educational care. Juvenile delinquency is our common responsibility. We have taken our part: it is up to you to ensure that this reform is effective and sustainable. The Republican Group will vote in favour of this text, not as a political-political conspiracy, but simply because we consider it necessary and good for the future of juvenile justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u34	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u35	"In front of the child, the judicial decision is valid only if it expresses an act of solidarity and friendship". These words of Jean Chazal in Children Delinquents largely enliven the spirit of the Order of September 11, 2019, and we have been able to live up to them in our work of effective cooperation with the Senate. Let us keep in mind that, behind young offenders, there are life paths, not only those of children who are maltreated, beaten, in disinherence, but also those of victims affected by distress and violence, marked by incomprehension, who need to quickly turn the page to rebuild and move forward. Neither should be left uncertain about their future. The Ordinance of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, which is before us for ratification, reconciles these various issues with skill. It provides constructive responses to the challenges of new juvenile delinquency. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is particularly pleased that, on a text so structuring for our children and for society, the Joint Joint Committee has been able to reach an agreement. This order follows several studies: the report of the Varinard commission of 2008 and the information mission led at the beginning of 2019 by our colleagues Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier, whose work I welcome. Their conclusions are formal: the cardinal principles of the Ordinance of 2 February 1945 were questioned, both in their letter, in the course of the thirty-nine amendments made to the text, with a tendency to tighten criminal policy towards minors, and in judicial practice, some of these principles proved to be largely inadequate for the development of juvenile delinquency, due in particular to delays in the criminal response and excessive number of pretrial detention of minors. The order of 11 September 2019 seeks to remedy this exhaustion of the 1945 order. It is undeniably carrying out a substantial modernization of the criminal law of minors while retaining its cardinal principles, namely the primacy of education over repression or the mitigation of the minor's responsibility according to his or her age. On this last point, we are convinced by the introduction of the presumption of discernment from the age of 13, which is likely to improve the protection of children. We fully agree with the decision to confer on this simple presumption, since the assessment of the present case must prevail in any situation. As for the work of the Senate in the public sitting to define discernment, it seems enlightening to us: such a definition was necessary to ensure the effective protection of children and adolescents. We also welcome the major contribution of the order to shorten the average processing time from 18 months to one year. The sentence on guilt will be handed down within a maximum of three months, which will allow the minor to benefit from an educational measure without a time lag between the commission of the offence and the response given: this is essential for the minor to become aware of the seriousness of the acts alleged against him and, in many cases, to renounce a new move to the act. The accelerated holding of this hearing will also benefit victims, who can be compensated more quickly. With regard to this procedure, the Senate has enriched our work on a number of issues, including the possibility of digitizing the unique personality file and giving access to the staff of the authorized voluntary sector; the communication to the minor of the educational measures imposed upon him at the conclusion of his conviction hearing; or the convening by any means of legal representatives. These decisions seem relevant to us and we thank honourable senators for their contribution. We also welcome the quality of the discussions in the Joint Joint Committee, which have made it possible to find compromises, in particular with regard to the restoration of the competence of the police court for violations of the first four classes and of the judge of liberty and detention in relation to the pretrial detention of minors. In this way, the provisions of the Order of 11 September 2019 will improve the quality of the procedures. They are a balance that the creation of a code of juvenile justice would only be completed: I hope that we will move forward in this direction. We must, however, bear in mind, for the implementation of this text, and more generally for children's policies, that it is essential to strengthen synergies between the various actors in children. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Mr Keeper of the Seals, the Dem Group broadly supports the reform of juvenile justice and thanks you again for your commitment on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u36	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u37	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u38	We are discussing an ordinance dealing with children: that is, the importance of this work and the emotion generated by this text, which has been on the agenda for many years. No one doubts the importance of such codification, even if we would have preferred a code of criminal and civil justice for minors. In any event, it was essential to establish a separate code from the Criminal Code. We discussed this issue at length with Christiane Taubira at the consensus conference, whose guidelines we find here. I do not go back to our criticisms of the principle of the ordinance, which is widely developed in our previous interventions, and which we maintain. The founding principles of the 1945 Ordinance – mitigation of criminal responsibility, specialized jurisdiction, specific procedure and primacy of the educational response – are recalled at the beginning of the text, in which the concept of the best interests of the child is also introduced. Two new measures, without constituting a revolution, can improve the functioning of juvenile criminal justice. The first of these is the introduction of a more responsive and faster procedure, which responds to a strong demand from our fellow citizens. It is based on the principle that the trial has been cut off, on which we have worked a great deal, and is presented in two stages: the sentence of guilt first, and the sentence of punishment then, at the end of a period of probation allowing this penalty to be adapted to the child's behaviour. The second is the introduction of a presumption of irresponsibility for 13-year-olds. For these children, educational measures, which can be very coercive, are the answer. Together with my colleague Alexandra Louis, who has worked very hard on this issue, as well as with the rapporteur Jean Terlier, we fought, both in the sitting and in the committee, to maintain the JLD's presence in the pre-trial detention procedure: fortunately, this mechanism has been reinstated in the CMP. Imprisonment can be worse than harm to a child: to call on the judge of liberty and detention to pronounce himself, it is to emphasize the seriousness of such a decision and confer on the minor as many rights as to the major, which is the least of the things. Thank you, Minister, for accepting our requests to do so. The CMP's decision to postpone a reform that everyone agreed should be postponed until 30 September is a relief for professionals. This decision follows an amendment by our group, in the Committee on Laws and in open session. On the other hand, the simple presumption does not satisfy the provisions of article 40 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. The definition of discernment reduces the scope of the presumption of irresponsibility for minors, in that it purports to define what, in our view, is undefinable and belongs to the field of childhood. This complicates the task of the judge and the organization of child welfare services and alters the clarity of the message that we must hold before the public that the child at risk or the dangerous child compels us in the same way. However, I trust the judge and a policy of small steps to combat unrealistic and populist positions. On the usefulness of extending the role of the juvenile judge to all offences, I hear objections to the means. But we must move decisively in this direction. By the way, will the material means be at the rendezvous? That is essentially what we are talking about. The juvenile justice system, whose educational follow-up is the corollary, requires substantial funding. The welcome increase of 8% of the appropriations for 2021 will not be enough: we all know that. In my department, the only closed educational centre has been abolished. Since then, no plans have emerged. As a whole, our group will not oppose this text. For my part, for the reasons I mentioned during the various debates, thanks to the work carried out in confidence within the framework of the mission and despite reservations, I will support the ratification of this order. In conclusion, I pay tribute to the judges, lawyers, educators, clerks and prison staff who work daily to support children, who know and protect them. I trust these professionals: beyond this ordinance, we all know that it is through them that we look carefully at the children of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u39	Thank you, Mrs Untermaier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u40	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u41	Since its entry into force, the Juvenile Offenders Ordinance of 2 February 1945 has been amended 40 times. These successive changes have led to an increase in the number of measures, procedural frameworks and modes of prosecution applicable to minors. Over time, they have made the principles affirmed in 1945 less legible and have contributed to longer trial periods. This text contains great progress: my group will support it, because it responds to a strong expectation and will allow for a welcome speed. The management of juvenile delinquents is infinitely complex because it concerns a population of beings under construction. Of course, we must be able to sanction, but always by giving primacy to the educational dimension of the criminal response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u42	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u43	Even before the end of the Second World War, the provisional government led by General de Gaulle considered the issue of delinquent childhood to be a priority. Here is the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum of the order of February 2, 1945: "France is not rich enough of children so that it has the right to neglect everything that can make it healthy". In 2021, the observation remains the same, although the context is different. The treatment of minors in criminal justice is of cardinal importance, whether they are victims or offenders. Is it necessary to reaffirm this lapalissade? Today's miners are tomorrow's France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u45	We welcome the work of the Joint Joint Committee and we are pleased that agreements have been reached on the points of dissension between our two chambers. Several topics were discussed, such as the simple presumption of non-discernment at thirteen years of age. Article 40 of the Convention requires that an age limit be adopted by States under which a child cannot be held to be an offender. Taking into account this important commitment, by reconciling it with the broad principles of our criminal law, the bill introduces a simple presumption of non-discernment for 13-year-olds. Several contributions from the Senate have consolidated this progress. This is the case with the introduction of the definition of discernment in Article 1b(A). But we welcome the decision to include it in the law, as it is a pillar of the new architecture of the code for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u46	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u47	The second topic of debate is the competence of the police court for offences committed by minors in the first four classes. The Senate had wished to remove the jurisdiction of the police court for these violations for the benefit of the juvenile judge. We share the desire to preserve the specialisation of juvenile courts, a principle of constitutional value. However, the abolition of the system could significantly increase the number of children's judges, with approximately 5,000 additional cases per year. We are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has reached agreement on this point, by re-establishing the competence of the Police Court for these violations. Third and final topic: the date of entry into force of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. In this regard, the National Assembly was very committed to the date 31 March 2021, which was already the result of several postponements related to the health crisis. However, in view of the persistence of the crisis of the covid-19 and the warnings issued by the presidents of the courts, it seems to us entirely reasonable to postpone this entry into force further. The Senate proposed a six-month extension to September 30, 2021, so that the courts could properly prepare for the transition to the new procedures. This proposal from our honourable senators seems wise to us: it will allow the courts to accept this reform in a calm and effective manner. [[The rapporteur applauds]] For all these reasons, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mr. Rapporteur, the Acting Together Group will vote on the bill and thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u48	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u49	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u50	The CMP on the bill ratifying the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code Legislative Ordinance has reached an agreement, and we welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u52	It was indeed necessary to reform the 1945 Ordinance and codify it in order to gain clarity and readability. The two chambers agreed on the renewal of the procedure and on all the changes that accompany it. This renewed procedure means a great deal: it must guarantee a response closer to the facts, which we believe is essential to enable the minor to understand his or her actions and to avoid recidivism. We hope, however, that a balance can be struck between a beneficial promptness of the criminal response and a haste that would be detrimental to all – I am thinking in particular of the concerns of lawyers regarding the preparation of the defence. With regard to the Senate's additions, we very much welcome the postponement of the coming into force of the reform: its implementation will be all the more qualitative and effective. On the substance, our group would have liked to go further for the specific care of repeat offenders or repeaters. In this specific case, the answer must be given priority or even by a specialised chamber. We regret that our proposals on this matter have not been heard. I would have liked to develop all the measures that we could take to try to stem the delinquency of young people upstream, to deal with the causes and not only the consequences, through penalisation; Unfortunately, we are short of time. Therefore, the heart of this reform is in fact the question of a possible threshold of criminal irresponsibility for the youngest. This will now be a simple presumption, the threshold below which we assume that the child is not capable of discernment being set at 13 years of age. Beyond practical and procedural issues, the difference between the child and the adult is his or her ability to understand his or her actions and thus to be responsible for them. The definition of discernment, introduced by the Senate, makes it clear. This is the cardinal point of the reform, since the judge's assessment of responsibility will condition the whole follow-up of the judicial procedure. It was therefore necessary to state in the marble of the law that a child remains a child, and that the essential thing lies in his or her accompaniment to his or her adult life. To say this is neither to be angelic nor to deny the opportunity of a certain severity of the sanction when it proves necessary. As my colleague Michel Zumkeller said very well in the general discussion at first reading, these choices are not only legal: it is a matter of our collective awareness that the fundamental principles laid down in 1945 determine, today and yesterday, the validity of the criminal response given to children and adolescents. Whether minors are influenced, in great suffering or in loss of landmarks, their accompaniment is essential. That is why education must always take precedence over repression. We hope more than anything else that this principle will remain, because it is the key to a child-friendly criminal justice system. We hope very much in this reform, and the IDU and independent group will vote for it. Nevertheless, hopes can only become a reality if the means are given; efforts will be futile if it is only to include principles in the law that cannot be applied. Indeed, the juvenile criminal justice system suffers not from an increase in delinquency, but from a chronic lack of resources. The dedication of all those who work to guide our young people in the right path is stumbling into practical difficulties that can only be solved by increasing budgets: lack of staff, lack of places in reception facilities, lack of health and psychological care. We will therefore expect with a particular requirement the report requested in article 11, in which the Government will have to take stock of the implementation of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors and specify any progress made and difficulties encountered. We consider the submission of this report, scheduled for two years, as a potential re-visit clause: it will be an opportunity to look at the changes that we are going to make and to rigorously monitor the measures implemented to overcome the current difficulties. If so, we will have to act quickly to make the necessary changes. In view of the stakes, my conclusion is tinged with a certain solemnity. Certainly more than others, the text that we are about to vote commits generations to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u53	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u54	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I will call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u55	This is an editorial amendment of syntactic coordination, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u56	You have to be precise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u57	[[Smile]] Syntax is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u58	I give you the floor again, Mr Keeper of the Seals, to support Amendment No 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u59	This is a co-ordination editorial amendment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u60	Coordination is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u61	[[Smile]] Almost as much as the syntax!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u62	I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the public vote on this bill will take place tomorrow, after questions to the Government and the solemn vote on the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u63	The next item is the debate on the bill by Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq, Carole Grandjean and others to strengthen occupational health prevention (No. 3718, 3881).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u64	Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u65	Since the workers' revolts of the 19th century and the law of 9 April 1898, the first text to have organized the compensation of industrial accidents, social protection in France has been built around the stakes of securing workers. At a time when our country is going through one of the most serious health crises of the twenty-first century, it is necessary to strengthen the mechanisms that help to keep workers in good physical and psychological health. While the occupational health provisions have historically been built around the notion of reparation, a new culture of prevention must now prevail, the challenge being to combat occupational disintegration. This will is also the driving force behind the discussions of the social partners during the negotiations which culminated in the signing last December of a national interprofessional agreement. Through this agreement, trade unions and employers' organisations have made an explicit commitment to give effective place to prevention and to promote a harmonised and strengthened offer of services. These are the main objectives of the proposed legislation that we have tabled: to strengthen the culture of prevention, to reorganize and equip occupational health structures with effective tools, to unblock public health and health at work, and to promote access for all workers to these services. Particularly committed to social dialogue, we wanted to propose legislation that respected the commitments made by the signatories to the agreement. Its political structure has been the result of several parliamentary work and reports, a process of consultation and territorial conferences with the actors. Its legal construction was secured by an opinion of the Council of State. The text before us today has been enriched by proposals from all sides of this House. Its construction will continue in public session, fed by our new exchanges. We wanted to improve prevention tools by providing for a mid-career medical examination and an appointment at the request of the employee on long-term sick leave in order to anticipate his return in the best conditions and to make the necessary adjustments to the job and working time. The occupational disintegration prevention unit will accompany individual situations which require the cooperation of the actors to arrange the job and avoid incapacity. To ensure a better quality of care, we wanted to encourage the division between occupational medicine and public health, by entrusting doctors with the work of strengthened vaccination and screening missions, by allowing them to use teleconsultation with the agreement of the employee, to work in partnership with a corresponding physician practitioner or to integrate the territorial professional health communities – CPTS. We believe that improving the coordination of actors and their cooperation are essential to enable France to join the path of excellence in the management of workers' health. It is also for this reason and for this purpose that we wanted to allow doctors at work to access the shared medical file of the workers, subject to their express consent, and also to allow doctors at work to access the medical file in health at work. To promote complementarity, we recommend strengthening the composition of multidisciplinary teams and allowing nurses to practice in advanced practice within an occupational health and prevention service. In order to ensure better monitoring of all workers, including self-employed workers and entrepreneurs, we wanted to encourage a dedicated offer by occupational health services. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that this bill to strengthen occupational health prevention responds to the issues I have just outlined. Our collective responsibility is to improve the ranking of France, currently twenty-ninth out of thirty-five in Europe for occupational risk assessment. Our collective responsibility is to support our businesses, small and large, on the road to acculturation in terms of prevention; We share this responsibility with all the social partners, who will have to engage with us in this direction, through company and branch negotiations. Our collective responsibility is to offer all French workers, whether they are wage earners or not, a better management of their health at work and to develop a true culture of prevention in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u66	Mrs Parmentier-Lecocq, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u67	This is the reform aimed at finally turning health at work into prevention. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to do so last June when our Assembly voted on the resolution that Carole Grandjean, Cendra Motin and I proposed, aimed at making France one of Europe's best performing countries in the field of occupational health. We believe in work value and emancipation through work. We therefore naturally want work not to be done at the expense of health. In the context of the health crisis that we are experiencing, occupational health has emerged as a major challenge and a sine qua non for continued activity during the crisis. But we had already been able to measure the stake it represents well before, thanks to many reports. I myself had the honour of giving two to the Prime Minister: one written with Bruno Dupuis and Henri Forest in 2018, and the other with Pascale Coton and Jean-François Verdier in 2019. Many others include the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Occupational Diseases and Pathologies in Industry submitted by our colleagues Pierre Dharréville and Julien Borowczyk; the information report on the shared medical record and health data of our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille; the information report on the establishment of a universal occupational health service for our colleagues Senator Stéphane Artano and Pascale Gruny; the report on the chemical risk of Professor Paul Frimat; the reports on the attractiveness of the profession of occupational physician submitted by the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – IGAS... The vote on the resolution sent a strong signal to actors on the ground as well as to the social partners. In order not to remain at the stage of intention, Carole Grandjean and I, together with some 30 colleagues from the Dem groups, have set up a working group and La République en marche, which has interviewed many health workers at work and met on the ground with occupational health services teams and prevention actors. Our very clear intention to table a bill before the end of 2020 has encouraged the social partners to reach an agreement whose text would usefully serve as a legislative vehicle. The deal was clear: in the event of an agreement, we committed ourselves to transposing the terms of the negotiations and enriching them; in case of failure, as had been the case in 2019, we would still legislate. Thus, it was with satisfaction that we welcomed the conclusion, on 10 December, of a national interprofessional agreement – ANI – providing in particular for the rise in the quality of health services at work – with the definition of a certified service base – the creation of the preventive passport, the reaffirmation of the importance of the single document and the resulting action plan and the creation of the mid-career visit. We welcome this commitment to strengthen occupational health prevention. In parallel with these discussions, our work has led to the proposal of strong and innovative measures, in particular to break down public health and health at work, and to better combat job disintegration. We therefore give the doctor at work access to the shared medical file, subject to the express agreement of the employee, while providing for better coordination with his peers, thanks in particular to the territorial occupational health communities and the mechanisms to support coordination. To address the serious problem of a shortage of occupational physicians, we reaffirm the role of occupational health nurses and allow them to practice in advanced practice, so that they can usefully take care of the physician's duties under the responsibility of the physician. In addition, we reaffirm the value of telemedicine. To make the company a public health field, we are developing screening and vaccination campaigns and promoting healthy sport. In order to allow people who are sick to live their recovery without feeling excluded from the professional world, we create the liaison appointment that they can make use of at their convenience. Because we measure the extent to which occupational risks are also major issues for entrepreneurs and self-employed people, we are opening them access to prevention services. These advances were proposed by the Members of the working group and then enriched by the Commissioners for Social Affairs. It was this constructive spirit with the social partners, with our colleagues from all sides of the House and with the senators who animated us throughout the process of drafting this text, which also fed into fruitful exchanges with the actors on the ground. Carole Grandjean and I are convinced that the parliamentary debate that we are opening today, articulated in an unprecedented way with social dialogue, will make it possible to go even further, with the aim of strengthening occupational health prevention. Finally, I would like to extend my warm thanks to our colleagues and administrators for their unwavering support in the development of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u68	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u69	Leave the retreats alone, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u70	Today we are starting the public discussion of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. After the conclusion of the national interprofessional agreement on 10 December and the work of last week's Social Affairs Committee, we are now taking a new step in the reform of occupational health. Each of these steps is essential. At the beginning of March 2020, the Government proposed to the social partners to take up this subject, in accordance with the method established by the Act of 31 January 2007 on the modernization of the so-called Larcher social dialogue, which envisages inviting the social partners to negotiate before drafting a law on individual and collective labour relations. The trade unions and employers' organizations responded favourably to this invitation and then started their work in June, on the basis of the guidance document submitted by the Government. The six months of negotiations between the social partners will have led to a solid and balanced agreement, only a few weeks after another agreement on telework was concluded. The signing of this national interprofessional agreement by the MEDEF, the Confederation of SMEs, the Union of Local Enterprises, the CFDT, the Labour Force, the CFE-CGC and the CFTC demonstrates the ability of the social partners to write together a new page on occupational health. Building this convergence of view has not been easy; It has required extensive work, openness and mutual concessions. I will not dwell on the content of the negotiations, we will have an opportunity to return to them during our debates. I would just like to stress the vitality of our social dialogue, which, in times of crisis, is making sense. Our social partners have been able to overcome their antagonisms in order to be a force for proposals and to realise the ambition of health at work and resolutely oriented towards prevention. From now on, parliamentary democracy takes over from social democracy. These two forms of legitimacy, neither competing nor redundant, are complementary to pave the way for the widest possible agreement. The introduction of this bill, on 23 December, took place only a few days after the conclusion of the ANI. The initiative makes it possible to give substance to this fruitful negotiation and to transpose it into our law. I would therefore like to welcome the commitment of the presidential majority and, in particular, your rapporteur, who supported this initiative with the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups. You know how attached I am to this collective approach of the presidential majority. Beyond his commitment, I can count on the commitment of all Members to the prevention and renovation of our occupational health system. I am convinced that we can build an expanded consensus in your chamber and then with the Senate. If the Government welcomes this unprecedented method of transposition, it will have to ensure, until the end of the parliamentary shuttle, that the balances – delicate and therefore fragile – reached by employers' and trade union organizations are respected. The translation of the ANI adopted in December will not be limited to a set of legislative measures: an important regulatory project awaits us, which will have to be accompanied by an appropriation of these provisions by the actors on the ground. Moreover, I had the opportunity to inform the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Fadila Khattabi, that I was at her disposal on this subject: I would be happy to come to the committee to talk about this regulatory change, if you wish. With regard to the content of the bill, it clearly accelerates the modernization of our occupational health system. The text is in line with the resolution calling for France to become one of the most successful countries in the field of occupational health, adopted by the National Assembly on 22 June 2020 following numerous work carried out at the initiative of the Parliament or the Government, which has already been mentioned by the rapporteur Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq. I have a lot in mind, Madam rapporteur, the work you did yourself in 2018 with Bruno Dupuis and Henri Forest, or the work you did in 2019 with Pascale Coton and Jean-François Verdier on occupational health in the public service. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a fundamental race that began several years ago and is now translated into practice in this bill. Our discussions this week will allow us to deepen some of his objects. In the immediate future, I would like to highlight several advances that I find particularly significant: strengthening the preventive approach to occupational health; the collective traceability of exposure to occupational hazards, including chemical hazards; the definition of a basic offer of services deployed to all enterprises, including those of small size; the creation of a certification procedure to support quality efforts; the fight for job retention, with the creation of a mid-career visit to check the match between the workplace and health status. In general, I was able to measure, particularly during my travels, the very high expectations of employees and businesses for occupational health services. I have seen this every time and again, in recent weeks, as part of the visits of the occupational health services of Soissons, Saint-Omer or Dijon or Molsheim. To the extent that the proposed law is intended to meet this expectation and to pursue the ambition of an occupational medicine adapted to the enterprises and career paths of the twenty-first century, the Government will strongly support it. However, I must point out the questions raised by certain provisions, which were sometimes confirmed during the debates in committee. I am thinking, in particular, of taking into account the particularities of TPE-SMEs with regard to the prevention programme. The challenge for them is the completion and follow-up of the single occupational risk assessment document, the DUERP, without the need to add new constraints. I am also thinking about access to shared medical records for health care physicians and nurses at work. Parliamentary debates will have to remove the last reservations raised during the consideration of the bill by the Council of State. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Before turning to our discussions, I salute the 8,000 occupational health professionals who saw the creation of a dedicated State Secretariat as a strong commitment by the Government and the President of the Republic to the recognition and modernization of their activities, if necessary for businesses and workers. They have been engaged tirelessly since the outbreak of the epidemic in each of the territories you represent here and are now waiting for the tools and means to work more effectively for the health of all workers and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u71	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u72	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The Republic on the move hopes, with this bill, to redeem the fault committed at the beginning of the legislature and that no one has forgotten: the law of authorization to take by ordinance the measures for the strengthening of the social dialogue imposed by Emmanuel Macron in 2017, on the basis of which an ordinance has among other things abolished the committees of hygiene, safety and working conditions – CHSCT – these services responsible for ensuring independently the health of workers in the company. In this way, you are submitting a proposal for a law on occupational health to make us forget. But then, what are you proposing? Personally, when I think about what could be done in terms of occupational health, I am thinking of Amazon's temporary workers who are subjected to voice commands throughout the day dictating what to do to the second; We could ban this type of practice. I am thinking of my fellow caregivers who suffer from musculoskeletal disorders because of having to carry people; we could impose ratios of caregivers per resident and per patient to relieve them. I am thinking of close victims of burn-out at work; We could recognize this occupational disease to encourage companies to prevent this risk. I am thinking of the sewers without which our streets would spread a pestilential smell, but whose life expectancy is 17 years below average; We could reduce the length of their job. I am thinking of people who work at night or in the evening, which increases their health problems; we could reduce the use by companies of these time slots. I am thinking of the new forms of management that have emerged, the people who commit suicide because they are harassed at work. We could ensure that occupational medicine is truly independent of the employer to prevent these risks. I am thinking of farmers, totally excluded from the scope of this bill, who are exposed to carcinogens. They should be accompanied towards alternatives to agrochemistry. There would be so much to do. But no: all these requests are considered "out of subject matter". Your proposal for a law on occupational health completely ignores these considerations. So what does she propose? Additional documents – preventive passport, single document – at the risk of discharge of the employer's responsibilities; delegations of competence and telemedicine, at the risk of damaging the quality of medical visits; liberalisation of the occupational health sector through certification by private bodies; Public health missions that keep occupational medicine away from its core business, and new committees as you like them in the running Republic. In short, emptiness: it is a proposal for a technocratic law, it is the method "walking on the head". If you have a mould problem in your bathroom, instead of improving ventilation, you will give a little paint; Unfortunately, it won't solve anything. You boast that the decisions taken by the employers' and wage unions in the case of the national interprofessional agreement, as if they were a guarantee of legitimacy, will be translated into law. But it is health at work that we are talking about here, and you know, like me, that employees are subordinated by an employment contract. However, the legislation is here precisely to protect the employee; She's not here to please. The ANI naturally lacks ambition in terms of worker protection, as it is signed by all employers' organisations. Workers' unions may also have a say, but they are far from being able to do so; Moreover, the CGT, which still represents 640000 members, did not wish to sign, and the majority of the amendments we are presenting were suggested to us by the INA signatories. Unsurprisingly, therefore, you miss the subject: your sweetened vision of the world of work prevents you from taking the necessary steps. Some proposals are even particularly worrying. Let us take the mid-career visit, which will now be compulsory for all employees: such a visit is beneficial for the employee only if it leads the occupational doctor to adapt the post in his interest. However, in order to do so, the occupational doctor would have to be completely independent of the employer. This is not the case. For example, the Occupational Health and Medicine Association notes that the ability of the occupational physician to stand individually against an organization of work and business plans imposed by a management is very limited, or is a matter of heroism. This was highlighted at the time of the asbestos scandal, for example: it was certainly not the doctors at work who allowed this case to emerge! The occupational doctor will be encouraged to make this mid-career visit a check-up, which will be used to determine whether or not the employee should be replaced. Unfortunately, you again miss the subject, refusing to strengthen the independence and power of occupational doctors, as we ask you. Worse, 600 occupational doctors have written to alert you to the dangers of this text: by delegating some of their missions to health professionals even less protected than they do, you make it worse for occupational doctors to submit to the economic imperatives of companies, to the detriment of the health of workers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] While some articles are very timid in the right direction, others pose a threat to employees. This bill is, on the whole, not up to the stakes. It does not speak of suffering at work, nor of its root causes, thus confirming our concerns. Since Emmanuel Macron does not like the term penitibility, you simply ignore the subject: great disappointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u73	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u74	The originality of the text we are considering this afternoon is to transpose into law the conclusions of a national interprofessional agreement concluded on 10 December 2020. We can only be satisfied with the conclusion of such an agreement, especially since the negotiations were difficult; They had failed in July 2019. In recent months, several interprofessional agreements have taken place: I am thinking of the Ségur de la santé or the ANI on telework. They are obviously far from perfect, but they remind us of the need for consultation and collective bargaining. Health at work was the subject of the third major interprofessional national agreement concluded in 2020; This is all the more important given that the field of occupational health has been in arrears for many years. As in many other areas, the health crisis has highlighted major dysfunctions: shortage of occupational doctors, illegible and difficult to access systems, territorial inequalities. Signing such an agreement was essential because of the work-related health damage to our compatriots. I am, of course, thinking about the effects of career disadvantage on the monitoring of employees and their health. I am also thinking of the psychological suffering, which has increased in recent months, and of which we still do not measure the extent. The reports of parliamentarians or IGAS have for years pointed to the same shortcomings. This text transposing the conclusions of a national agreement, it is up to the legislator that we are to ensure that it respects the balances found by the social partners. Let us also ensure that health at work is not distorted: it must give priority to the individual and collective health interests of employees and ensure that all workers have prompt and high-quality access to the health service at work. The proposal incorporates the broad guidelines of the agreement, to which the Freedom and Territory Group can only subscribe: the division between public health and health at work, the strengthening of prevention, the improvement of the quality of the service rendered and the governance of health services at work, the strengthening of the support of certain vulnerable groups and the fight against occupational disintegration. We take note of the improvements made in the committee on the obligation to take into account the consent of the worker, in particular regarding access to his medical file shared by the occupational doctor: a refusal is not brought to the attention of the employer and cannot be regarded as a fault. We have also clarified the fact that the employee's initiative will be taken on board by resuming appointments, which have become a liaison appointment. In addition, there was a need to better integrate actors involved in the occupational integration of persons with disabilities and to better protect workers from situations of polyexposure. Some of our proposals have been incorporated into the text. Nevertheless, some points need to be clarified, and we think it is possible to go further in the transcription of this agreement. We will insist on the need to make clear in the law the different categories of occupational hazards and to take better account of chemical risks. This seems to us all the more important as the Government, by order, abolished in 2017 four criteria of penitibility: painful postures, mechanical vibrations, manual handling of loads, chemical agents. In addition, by focusing on occupational health prevention, you do not sufficiently relate to the repair and compensation of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Work can be a source of real psychological as well as physical suffering; This reality must not be obscured or minimized. Finally, the shortage of occupational doctors is not addressed. Today, however, we have one doctor for every 4000 employees in the private sector, half as much as 15 years ago. To remedy this situation, you propose the use of the corresponding doctors; But, in a context of medical desertification, we doubt its effectiveness. The delegation of tasks and advanced practice for occupational health nurses seem to us to be more realistic solutions; But there is still a need to be able to move forward on the status, training and protection of these nurses, as is the case for occupational physicians. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Despite these shortcomings, we are approaching this discussion in a rather positive way, aware of the need to move forward on this issue. But we still invite you to increase your ambitions to live up to the importance of the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u75	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u76	We're still dying at work. We're still ruining our lives at work. One can still lose one's life to gain it, like these asbestos workers in the Gulf of Fos industries and elsewhere. But all this is masked. At the workplace, human beings are placed at the crossroads of a structural social contradiction. He participates in a collective work, he brings his share of response to needs by praising his strength and intelligence; You can express at work a beautiful part of yourself, you can do it. But we are also in the place where these pressures are exerted that want the productive, competitive, profitable, profitable human. One can ignore it, and think that there are only accidents and errors of inattention there; the growing revelation of psychosocial disorders can be minimized; then we will make health at work a nice attention, a detail that must be remembered from time to time. But if one is aware of what is at work, how long one spends in a life and the risks of leaving something of its integrity there, then one will make it a determined fight that wants to change the work itself. At work too, the rule must be to create the conditions for a state of complete well-being, physical, psychic and social, otherwise there is no development, no emancipation. The work must not be a grey area where the unacceptable is accepted to meet production requirements. We have to deal with the malwork, the labour crisis. It is a battle, waged in companies as close to workplaces, in real terms, led by employees, trade unionists, mutualists, preventers, doctors, often too alone. However, the first act of this legislature was – I weigh my words – a deceitful gesture, a guilty choice, an unbearable signal: with these break-up orders of the Labour Code, the majority of this assembly demolished the monument of the health, safety and working conditions committees. It has addressed the gains on recognition of penitibility – a word that doesn't like it because there are realities that we don't want to see. So here we are this afternoon in a catch-up session, and this is a missed opportunity, away from the leads that seemed to be opened up by your work, ladies and gentlemen. The Government has provided a road map for a national interprofessional agreement adopted without enthusiasm or unanimity; He should have taken over the presentation. The fact that it is a bill that is before us is not a guarantee of co-construction. We are here to do a little more than record, and we will discuss the proposals that are on the table, especially since you wanted to add some elements of your own. I would like to welcome the choice of archiving the single document, regretting that it is not within a social or public institution, because it weakens the system a little. This was a measure I had proposed in my report on the Committee of Inquiry into Occupational Diseases and Pathologies in Industry. But you are confined here to a very small perimeter, and if some of the measures do not eat bread, others seem problematic. We can see the organisation of a two-speed system, with the creation of a "basis" offer for prevention and health services at work, and thus of "premium" offers around which a market will develop. What about the obligation to provide health care? It is also expected that a new market will emerge with the addition of a certification system by private bodies. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In the face of this so-called mid-career visit, one can only wonder: this looks like a way of installing the idea that other intermediate visits could be dispensable. By the way, for the decrees regarding the end-of-career visit that are waiting to be published since 2018, it is whenever you want! We also remain dubitative in front of this "linking appointment", rather indefinite, which has not been discussed. There was, however, much to be done to make prevention essential, to combat eliminateable diseases and risks, to take concrete action on working situations – for example through a cadastre of declared and recognized diseases –, to increase the responsibility of employers, to strengthen the independence of occupational health services and their capacity for action – for example by integrating them into the world of social security –, to strengthen the link between occupational doctors and university hospital centres, to increase the number of active professionals, to recognise diseases whose pictures are no longer fed – I am talking about diseases whose massive and chronic underrecognition is leading to prevention – to act against chemical risks, to create an effective tool against exclusion through incapacity, and many other things. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The field of occupational health requires vigorous action; We'll have to get there, and the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u77	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u78	The bill before us today proposes to take a decisive step in the organization of our occupational health system. The stated objective is clear: to protect our citizens in the professional setting by giving them access to quality services. On this point, the addition of the term "prevention" in the name of occupational health services is emblematic. But this text also innovates by the method used. By trying to transcribe the national interprofessional agreement, our rapporteurs have taken a new path. The text reproduces, as it stands, the provisions resulting from the discussions between the social partners: the method shows respect for these long-term negotiations and a strong desire to propose to the national representation measures already validated by social democracy. The rapporteurs also decided to submit the bill to the Council of State. This procedure is widely used for bills, but it is much less widely used for texts proposed by MPs. We can only congratulate them on this initiative, which allows us to debate a solid text that respects our freedoms. Finally, the text we are looking at is unique from a political point of view. It refers to proposals supported by the majority as a whole, i.e. both by the Republic on the move and by the Dem and Take Action groups. It is therefore the result of co-construction work and will, I am sure, be enriched by amendments from all the benches. On behalf of the La République on the move, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for the intelligent, thorough and thorough work they have done in proposing a successful and ambitious text. The innovations are considerable. For prevention, first of all: the introduction of a mid-career visit for the benefit of the employee, which will make it possible to judge the match between the workplace and the state of health, will be an opportunity to adapt the workplace as much as possible. Soon, for each worker, the preventive passport will allow for better follow-up of validated training in occupational safety and risk prevention. Another major innovation: the quality certification of services will ensure the transparency of their organisation and the quality control of the performance of their mission. Finally, for companies, the single occupational risk assessment document, including an annual programme of preventive actions, becomes mandatory and widespread. Prevention is therefore one of the major advances of this text. It then contributes to the break-up of two universes, that of public health and that of health at work. The measures to contribute to this are numerous: the opening of the shared medical file and the medical record of health at work, the possibility of using corresponding medical practitioners or the participation of the services in public health promotion activities, to give some examples. The bill also strengthens, and is essential, the support of the most vulnerable groups and disabled workers. It also contributes strongly to the fight against job disintegration. Finally, within multidisciplinary teams, advanced practice will now be possible for nurses. Last week's examination of the draft law in the Committee on Social Affairs allowed the text to be refined in legal terms, with first of all the incorporation of drafting amendments resulting from discussions with the Council of State. I would like to stress the progress proposed in order to better secure access to the medical file shared by the occupational doctor. Some legitimate concerns had been expressed; They've been heard. Together with my colleagues in the La République group on the move, I have submitted an amendment that will enable the opening of the shared medical file to be properly regulated, with the collection of express written consent and the possibility of withdrawing such consent at any time and in complete confidentiality. These concerns have been widely reflected in the text. The work in committee has also enabled us to go further on the inclusion of persons with disabilities and vulnerable audiences. I thank all the colleagues from all the political groups for their very constructive proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The text provides considerable progress for the health of workers, I have just mentioned: improving prevention, combating job disintegration, opening up the gap between public health and health at work, better inclusion of all vulnerable audiences... It is a unique opportunity to anchor in the law the culture of prevention at work that we call for. That is why I invite all of you to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u79	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u80	Strengthening occupational health prevention is an important goal for the country and our citizens. It is in the world of work that the link between good physical and mental health and good economic health becomes fully meaningful. In the current health context and with the unprecedented economic crisis we are experiencing, it was necessary to take an equally new approach in order to arrive at a federative text with concrete and positive applications for all employees and companies. The social partners have understood the issues at stake. As a matter of responsibility, they have almost unanimously affirmed, through the national interprofessional agreement, their willingness to provide concrete, adaptable and close answers to companies. It is therefore essential to build on the consensus of the social partners so that the provisions that we will adopt offer the conditions for an effective improvement of prevention for all. With an economic fabric of the private sector characterized by the fact that more than 80 per cent of enterprises have fewer than 10 employees, occupational health services have a prominent place in the system. There is an urgent need to empower future occupational health and prevention services to ensure an effective and coherent service, ensuring fair treatment for all businesses and employees. The law must therefore provide a solid framework for ensuring national coherence in health and prevention at work and affirming fairness of treatment, but it must also maintain the flexibility necessary to apply to very different activities and geographic contexts. As the Council of State points out, it is not up to us to take regulatory measures. Prevention is aimed at long-term outcomes, and there is a need for provisions that can lead to sustainable progress. These will necessarily have to be adaptable over time and better integrate occupational health into a more comprehensive approach to public health services. The efficiency sought for health and prevention at work also requires that the provisions contained in the law be realistic and enforceable by all. A powerful framework guaranteeing fairness and the provisions applicable to ensure effectiveness: these are two essential points that are not fully achieved in the version of the text before us. For example, Members of the Republican Group are in favour of increasing the involvement of doctors at work in the company's own field and in their preventive tasks, as this is the very expression of their specificity and their particular skills. If they don't do it as much as they would like today, it's because they can't. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to innovate and allow reasonable but broader involvement of other skilled occupational health professionals, in addition to occupational physicians. The use of corresponding medical practitioners will not be sufficient to provide the necessary time for occupational physicians to make their full contribution to an ambitious system of prevention and health at work. We support the development of task delegations by occupational doctors, but the fairness of treatment for employees and companies must be guaranteed and ensured. This requires, among other things, the courage to affirm and translate into the text that all occupational health professionals, including occupational doctors, must put their action within the framework of a general, evaluable and coherent functioning with the health policies at work agreed between the State and the social partners and including the objectives assigned to the SPSTI – prevention and health services at work between enterprises. The indispensable technical independence of the occupational doctor is not incompatible with the equally indispensable rapprochement of practices within a defined, shared organisation and under the responsibility of a management. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs have told us the exceptional nature of this bill, which they have presented as an example of participatory democracy. Nevertheless, the Committee on Social Affairs has rejected our proposals, which are converging with those of several other parliamentary groups, in particular on Article 24. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of the strong consensus of the social partners on the national interprofessional agreement, our group shares the momentum and the broad lines of this bill, which largely reflects its content, but it is still possible to improve substantially the text before us by adopting common-sense amendments. A consensus as broad and reasonable as that reached by the social partners is within the reach of this House. I therefore hope that the Government and the majority will be able to accept our proposals with a real listening, and with the concern that we all share, of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u82	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u83	The bill we are considering today is the result of unprecedented co-construction work. It is the result of numerous parliamentary proceedings, both in the Assembly and in the Senate, which have opened the way for concrete reform of the occupational health ecosystem. It is with this in mind that our two rapporteurs, whose quality of investment and listening I would like to commend, have for many months set out to conduct a round of hearings of all stakeholders in order to achieve this reform agenda. Our group, which was able to participate in all the work carried out prior to the review of this text, fully shares the desire expressed by the rapporteurs to achieve a better integration of health at work and the prevention of occupational risks throughout public health policy. This will only be possible with the necessary adaptation of prevention and health services to the needs of workers and businesses, and will only succeed by achieving more open and transparent governance. In parallel with this long-term work in Parliament last December, the social partners reached agreement on a new occupational health roadmap seven years after the last interprofessional national agreement. The bill that we are about to consider is about to transcribe this new agreement for enhanced prevention and a renewed offer on occupational health and working conditions. The Dem Group welcomes the fact that, for the first time, a legislative vehicle of parliamentary origin translates the conclusions of inter-union discussions into law. The text has three major ambitions: to make occupational health, in particular occupational risk prevention, a priority of public policies; ensure that all workers have timely and high-quality access to health at work; strengthen the means of access and retention in employment of the most vulnerable workers. We consider that most of these assumptions are faithfully deferred in the bill. Nevertheless, it is also concerned with issues not included in the national interprofessional agreement – I am thinking in particular of all the provisions on the approximation of health at work and public health. The debates in committee were rich and nourished, allowing each to assert its position on both sides of this text. Many amendments have been adopted, in particular in order to take into account the remarks made by the Council of State by the President of the Assembly. At the committee stage, our group has contributed only modestly to the changes in the text by allowing the adoption of two amendments, the first to include the quality of life at work in the field of negotiation, the second to include the promotion of sport at work in the missions of prevention and health services at work. Several of our demands have been met by amendments from the rapporteurs or other colleagues, for example concerning guarantees of access to health data for employees or the inclusion of extensive collaboration between the multidisciplinary unit for the prevention of occupational disintegration and the various health insurance services, including social services; However, the text remains perfectable, and it is quite normal, given the important issues associated with its drafting. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats therefore wishes, during the examination of the text in public session, to deepen the debate on several points: clarification and proper identification of the advisory role of the AT-MP branch – occupational accidents and occupational diseases – the guarantee of traceability of exposures to risk; the ability of SMEs to meet both the obligations of the DUERP and the occupational risk prevention programme; the rise of doctors at work in the right of limitation; the arrangements for the involvement of professional branches in company prevention policy; adapting prevention and health services to work cooperatively with CPTS; extending the same dynamics of prevention services to autonomous services; securing health data; the delegation of duty of doctors to the multidisciplinary teams; the necessary association of the companies covered by the MSA scheme – mutual farm income – with the ambitions of the text to prevent and combat disintegration. [[Catherine Fabre applauds]] We very much hope that the discussion that is taking place will consolidate and enrich a new text in many ways. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, co-signatory to this text, will take their full place in this debate and support its adoption. This will mark the culmination of a work that has already honoured our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u84	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u85	The organization of occupational health concerns an important part of French life; the subject is all the more crucial because the picture of the situation is bleak. Psychosocial risks are now the second most common group of pathologies in the world of work and have caused some 20,000 accidents at work in 2016. Every year there are 500 to 600 deaths in the workplace, 30,000 permanent disabilities and 600,000 work stoppages. Covid-19 has brought about an additional degree of deterioration in the health of workers and has demonstrated the importance of the occupational doctor, a relay of the public authorities, in the fight against the pandemic in the company and contact of employees in telework. An investigation conducted in September by the Inter-Ministerial Mission to Combat Drugs and Addictive Conduct has shown an alarming increase in alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, antidepressants and other psychotropic drugs, due to working conditions, since the first confinement. The aim of this bill is to reorganise the provision of services and the governance of occupational health services, to improve the medical follow-up of employees and the prevention of occupational disintegration. By taking up much of the national interprofessional agreement on occupational health signed on 10 December 2020, it proposes a overhaul of the system, which is considered to be unreadable and effective. The objective is laudable but perilous because it must be stressed, following a number of trade union organisations, that this agreement, although signed by almost all the social partners, is a minimum agreement. While the NIA insists on the necessary prevention of primary risks, the agreement is not binding and does not propose any measures that could bring a new breath on the subject, to the great disarray of many occupational doctors. They do not see any significant progress in the prevention of occupational risks, and even fear an unprecedented decline in the protection of employees, the new organisation of the follow-up of employees returning back-to-back occupational doctors and generalists. The Council of State, in its opinion, itself expressed a number of reservations and called for vigilance on some of the proposed measures, such as the delegation of medical visits to the city doctor. It also warns about the risks for the employee's privacy of the opening of the medical file shared with the occupational doctor. Our work in the Committee on Social Affairs last week did not resolve many of our questions. First of all, I would like to mention Article 3, which creates a preventive passport. It is a matter of concern to the trade unions which have signed the agreement, which see it as a safe conduct allowing employers to discharge their safety responsibilities, on the ground that the worker has been informed. Articles 21 to 24 were ill-suited to address the shortage of occupational physicians, whose number had fallen by 30 per cent in 10 years. It is difficult to believe that the proposed sparadraps will be sufficient to permanently stop the trend. Finally, of the thirty articles in the text, few allow concrete progress for workers. With the exception of articles 18 and 28, most relate only to the reorganization of the governance of occupational medicine, by providing for or merging mechanisms that are of little interest or of no normative scope. The text does not refer to the labour inspectorate only once; It does not address the issue of employers' liability in the event of an accident at work or suicide, nor does it address the issue of psychosocial risks, penitence, quality of life at work or the health of intercontractors or job seekers. The text also does not allow employees to protect themselves in the event that they feel they are at risk, it does not address the question of the means of the various actors in prevention and does not provide for any prevention campaign for the general public concerning safety at work. In addition to the fact that the issue of accidents at work would in itself be such as to justify strong action, this text shines with its shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u86	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u87	[[Pierre-Alain Raphan applauds]] First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work and investment of our two colleagues Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean on this bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. The Council of State recognized in this text the outcome of an unprecedented process of co-construction, involving parliamentarians, social partners and the Government. The Action Together Group is very committed to this dynamic of interaction between the various public actors, which enriches the legislative process, and demonstrates the essential role and importance of a rich social dialogue in the service of health and well-being at the work of our citizens. Indeed, the draft law incorporates and deepens the provisions of an ambitious and innovative agreement on occupational health, negotiated by the social partners last December. The text is organised around three main axes: the prevention of occupational risks in enterprises, the fight against occupational disintegration and the promotion of the quality of life at work in relation to health at work. It is undeniable that this health crisis was, like all crises, an amplified revealing of the specificities of the French model of occupational health – both its strengths and its flaws. Thus, it highlighted the considerable role of the company as a key player in the protection of the health of employees: it was the company that was at the forefront of the emergence of the virus and, as a result, had to take urgent decisions to protect its employees. Mr Secretary of State, you have come to meet the actors in my constituency to measure it. The main avenue for improvement proposed by the text is therefore to strengthen the means available to the company in terms of prevention, which is a prerequisite for any structural reform in the field of health in the world of work. The Latin proverb "Prevention is better than cure" here takes all its meaning; It is indeed easier to prevent a painful problem than to solve it. We therefore welcome the adoption in the Committee on Social Affairs of our amendment to Article 2, which will allow the evaluation of work organisation to be included in the single occupational risk assessment document. More than a quarter of employees find themselves in a situation of tension in their work, and the lack of prevention of these situations all too often leads them to states of ill-being resulting in occupational exhaustion. The evaluation of work organisation will therefore help to reduce the incidence of such psychosocial risks. The proposed law allows for progress, thanks to ambitious measures: the introduction of a new risk, that of occupational disintegration, with new preventive measures and support; strengthening the traceability of occupational risks, with support from occupational health services and branches; the strengthening of training in the prevention of trade union elected officials and of all workers, with the preventive passport. Occupational health services will now be equipped with new tools, linked to the health context, so that they will have a role to play in immunization and screening campaigns. The creation of re-entry medical examinations and a mid-career medical examination is also welcome. These will make it possible to effectively strengthen prevention within the company. Finally, we welcome the adoption in committee of an amendment to establish the principle of communication between the disability referent and the occupational doctor, prior to the mid-career medical examination. In fact, during the various hearings, we were able to see that, in many cases, the main problem was the lack of communication between the various actors. Strengthening permeability between bodies is therefore a real step forward. The key word is that of dialogue in the area of prevention. However, this text leaves the issue of occupational health personnel open, when we believe that an additional 200 occupational health doctors would be needed. The deletion of the numerus clausus, which we supported two years ago, will partly answer this question. But in the immediate future, we will need all the levers, and in particular a better division of labour among professionals. An important consideration must also be given to upgrading the occupational physician profession, as it remains the last one chosen by medical students for lack of attractiveness. It is therefore essential to give him back his letters of nobility, giving him a recognized place in the career of care of the employee and instituting him as the true reference with the city doctors. [[Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq, rapporteur, Carole Grandjean, rapporteur, Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, and Michèle de Vaucouleurs applaud]] Our group will vote in favour of this text, which we have very much co-signed. We will also be able to propose to enrich it, without distorting the balance resulting from the national interprofessional agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u88	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u89	I thank Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean for the quality of the hearings and their work. Many reports have been submitted on the topic of occupational health. This reform was therefore very much expected and I am pleased to continue the discussions in this House. Occupational disintegration and health problems at work have a serious impact on our society. Preventing professional wear and tear by establishing a close link between exposure to risks and the career paths offered to workers is essential – it is also as the president of a senior employment information mission, that I am leading with my colleagues Stéphane Viry and Didier Martin, that I stress this point. In France, the approach to occupational health has too long focused on a culture of reparation, to the detriment of prevention. But last December's ANI reflects the desire of the social partners to promote better health protection, focusing on prevention. The IDU and independent group thanks them. Their work shows their mobilization and interest in this matter. The world of work is undergoing many changes and the diversity of current forms of employment must allow everyone to work in good conditions, in the interests of the employee and the employer. This is the equation of the conditions of performance and well-being in companies – hence of the valorisation of work. As you have said on several occasions during the debates in committee, the text we are looking at is based on the provisions that the social partners want, which were embodied in the signing of the ANI last December. However, I would like to point out that, while my group shares the broad guidelines laid down in the ANI, our task as legislator, when transposing these wills into the law, is to judge their opportunity and to ensure that a fair balance is struck, with respect for everyone. I regret, therefore, that a large number of amendments have been considered inadmissible, although they address issues that seem to me to be inseparable from improving health prevention: telework – I would remind you that the Minister of Labour, Elizabeth Borne, has encouraged all companies that can do so to make use of them for their employees –; adaptation of the workplace or psychological risks. I also regret the lack of proposals to address the lack of attractiveness of the occupational physician profession, even though they were advocated by Senator Stéphane Artano and Senator Pascale Gruny in their October 2019 Occupational Health Information Report. The text allows, however, several expected advances: how to preserve the DUERP; creation of a preventive passport tracing the training of workers; transparency of contributions and fees for prevention and health services at work, and publicity of their activities; creation of a unit for the prevention of occupational disintegration; the use of shared medical records, with due respect for medical confidentiality, in order to break down city medicine and occupational medicine; authorization of occupational nurses to practise in advanced practice in occupational health services. However, some provisions have not convinced us. In this way, my group will defend the deletion amendments concerning the mid-career visit – I explained to you the reasons – and the creation of a corresponding physician practitioner. My will is to make prevention a major focus, in particular by strengthening prevention campaigns. As such, I will propose an amendment on healthy food, along the lines of the amendment on healthy sport adopted in committee. We will also defend measures to enhance the role of the work nurse, who plays a complementary role in the multidisciplinary team of the occupational doctor. In conclusion, we can only subscribe to your desire to ensure that all workers have quality access to prevention and health services at work. Although some progress seems to us to be still timid, the IDU and independent group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u90	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u91	The health at work, eternal chestnut tree – or rather, sea serpent – in the world of work, has been reformed on numerous occasions, without ever, it must be said, satisfy neither the entrepreneurs nor the employees: the first, because they found a cost-effective ratio unsatisfactory; the latter, because they considered it unhelpful and saw it as a more burdensome than profitable waste of time. Faced with this unsatisfactory situation, the social partners started discussions and reached a national interprofessional agreement last December. In general, the laws resulting from such agreements are the most effective and simple to implement. We must therefore welcome such a consensus, and remain as close as possible to the agreement reached, failing, of course, to distort the original text. This bill is structured around four areas: enhanced prevention, the provision of an offer that provides a basis for business services, the fight against job disintegration, and the governance of the reorganised health system. I'll approach the first three here. Let us take them in order: reinforced prevention, first of all, is common sense. Prevention is better than cure: such popular adage cannot lie. While it was, until then, mainly oriented towards reparation, occupational medicine will therefore reorient itself towards a preventive mission; This is the subject of Title I and the first seven articles. The occupational doctor is a key player in occupational safety. Strengthening its preventive role is obviously going in the right direction – I have tabled an amendment to this effect, particularly with regard to night work, by integrating it into the annual programme for the prevention of occupational risks and the improvement of working conditions. A flat, however: improving the mission of prevention of occupational medicine is very good, but still need to have doctors. In 2018, we could already regret that France has lost 30% of its doctors in ten years, and that 75% of them are over the age of 55. To provide, as you do in Article 4, to extend the new prerogatives of occupational health services, in particular to "actions to promote health in the workplace, including vaccination campaigns", is very well on paper, but perhaps not very realistic in practice. Let us move on to the second axis: an offer which constitutes a basis of services for businesses, refocused on their main needs. Many reports have pointed out that there is too much heterogeneity, both qualitative and quantitative, in the provision of preventive and health services at work, for both enterprises and employees. The basis provided for in this text will consist of three tasks: prevention of occupational risks, individual monitoring of workers and prevention of occupational disintegration. As far as the individual monitoring of workers is concerned, I ask myself a few questions. In this way, you want occupational medicine to have access to the employee's shared medical file, but I believe that it will have to be accompanied by serious guarantees. Even if article 11, paragraph 8, provides that a worker may object to access to his or her medical file shared by the professionals responsible for monitoring his or her health, such access may have negative consequences for him or her, particularly at the time of hiring. Finally, Title III envisages better support for vulnerable audiences and the fight against job disintegration, with two flagship measures: to allow teleconsultation for the follow-up of workers – this is a good thing in the business world, I believe – and to establish a mid-career medical examination. I know that this last provision is a matter of debate; For my part, it seems to me a good idea, especially for all those who have difficult working conditions. I have tabled an amendment to ensure that the individual monitoring of the health status of multi-employer employees, who hold identical positions with equivalent risks, is pooled: for example, the conduct of a visit by one of the employers would be valid for all the employers concerned – again, it is a question of pragmatism and efficiency. Let me make a final point, which is important: the strengthening of occupational health prevention must not only concern salaried workers, but also the self-employed. Again, it is a proposal guided by efficiency; I hope that, like the others, you will be able to hear it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u92	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u93	Before I begin the examination of the text, I would like to provide answers to the Members who have just spoken. Since Mr Dharréville was an expert on social provisions and the Labour Code, he would be able to correct his remarks: all the provisions of the CHSCT had been transferred to the SSC, the Social and Economic Committee. The latter thus exercises all the prerogatives of the former CHSCT. I hear that Mr Dharréville wants to defend the CHSCT, but the reality is this: all their prerogatives have been maintained within companies; None of them have disappeared. You mentioned the criteria of penitibility, Mrs. Dubie. When the C3P – a personal account for the prevention of penitibility – became the C2P – a professional account for prevention – the criteria that were eminently complex to measure – I can tell you in a very operational way – were simply transposed into the early retirement system: they allow employees exposed to this type of risk to retire at age 60. This is an extremely concrete and operational measure. It is therefore inappropriate to say that these criteria are no longer taken into account: every year, on the contrary, hundreds of our citizens retire early thanks to the mechanism voted by Parliament in 2017. I think I can say that all those who benefit from it are happy about it. I have taken note, Mr Martin, of the vision you are defending on behalf of your group, and of your willingness to secure access to the shared medical file. You mentioned the provisions, adopted in committee in particular, which aim to ensure systematically that the employee has given his or her explicit and informed consent. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. I heard, Mr Bouley, that, in broad terms, you were relatively in favour of the text. You have referred to common-sense amendments: the Government will consider them with interest. You have the will to find a way through, so that the bill is widely adopted; This provision of mind augurs for interesting debates. Mrs Six has expressed a similar position, although she identifies some stumbling blocks, particularly regarding the mid-career visit – we disagree on this, but we will have an opportunity to discuss it, and I will share my experience with her. Finally, I would like to remind you, Mrs Fiat, that the independence of the occupational doctor is complete – you seem to have doubted it. It is enshrined in several provisions of our legislation, and is not called into question in any of the provisions in force or in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u94	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u95	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u96	Article 1 changes the name of occupational health services to include prevention at the heart of their mission: they are now preventive and occupational health services. Why did it take so long to assert this preventive role? Doing prevention, however, means taking care and paying attention to others; It is all that is done to ensure that people who come to retirement are not broken and are able to benefit from it; that is to ensure the dignity of the workers. This change of name thus reflects social progress, which will be a landmark in the history of labour legislation. In addition, article 1 enriches the definition of sexual harassment: it certainly covers statements or behaviours with sexual connotations, as already provided for in the Labour Code, but also, from now on, statements or behaviours with a "sexist" connotation. The aim here is to banish the daily harassment of women at work. We have been working for the past three years to reduce gender inequalities, including pay equity, or to ensure that there are more women entrepreneurs in the CAC40, among other examples. These are all advances. So we are looking at a social law that will fit into history. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the high place of history where we sit, I would like to recall the name of Arthur Fontaine – who lived near my home – one of the promoters of labour legislation, weekly rest or the 1919 law establishing the eight-hour working day. He also drafted Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles establishing the ILO, the International Labour Organization. In line with ILO Convention No. 190 on Violence and Harassment, it was time for our Labour Code to incorporate the word "sexist"! With this real law of social progress, we are part of the steps of our elders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u97	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u98	Like Marc Delatte, I am pleased that prevention is introduced into this bill. Speaking under the supervision of the rapporteur-general for the social security budget, I can testify that, for several years now, we have been taking the opportunity of every social security financing bill to refer to prevention. We are pleased that prevention finally has its full place in occupational health. This is a beautiful development, which we can all rejoice at. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I tabled an amendment on sexual and gender-based violence in committee, but I understood that their definition should be strengthened legally. We will pay close attention to the legislative treatment that will be given to these issues. In any event, we welcome the fact that prevention encompasses this field and is viewed in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u99	We come to the amendments to Article 1. Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u100	In particular, article 1 is intended to supplement article L. 1153-1 of the Labour Code on sexual harassment, so that gender-based statements or behaviours – and not just sexual connotations – can qualify a situation as sexual harassment. This is a partial harmonization with the definition provided for in Article 222-33 of the Criminal Code, since the draft law does not include paragraphs 2 to 4 of the above-mentioned article on group harassment. The aim of this amendment is to remedy this deficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u102	We thank you, Mrs Biémouret, for this amendment, which is a useful complement to the text, through an effort to coordinate with the Penal Code. My opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u104	He also supported the proposed alignment of the Labour Code with the Penal Code. Ms. Biémouret highlighted the drafting gap, with the repeated nature of harassment being present in the second, but not in the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u105	The co-ordination amendment No 453 by the rapporteur Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u106	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor to support Amendment No 531 on the additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u107	The aim of this amendment is to simplify the drafting of the reference to regulations codified in the Rural Code and the Maritime Fisheries Code by providing for both the reference to decrees identical to the measures provided for employers under the general scheme and the adjustments made necessary as a result of the organisation of occupational health services within the social security organisation of the agricultural professions, the MSA. [[Ms. Monique Limon applauds]] This is mainly about the introduction of the know-how of MSAs in the field of prevention and health at work. For several decades, they have been accompanying agricultural audiences in their health: preventing professional desertion, preventing ill-being and exhaustion, preventing suicides, and accompanying respite. Through its one-stop shop and cross-cutting approach, the occupational health services of ASMs are more responsive, effective and efficient. It is through this work of complementarity between health and social action, the occupational doctor and preventive services that the MSA is essential, indispensable in the development of public policies on prevention and health at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u109	Thank you for this amendment. You, together with our colleague Nicolas Turquois, have been very involved in the issue of farmers, which has led our debates in committee. We intended to extend the bill to farmers, but we were not yet ready because, as you pointed out, it is a specific integrated system that requires adaptation. We worked with you, Nicolas Turquois and the Government. Further amendments will be tabled on this subject at a later stage. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u111	I am not surprised to see this amendment defended by Mrs Hammerer as we had the opportunity to work together in her constituency when I sat with her here. Indeed, she is familiar with all the agricultural subjects. Its amendment has the advantage of simplifying the law and allowing for better readability of the new arrangements to be applied to employers and health services at work between agricultural enterprises, while making the necessary adjustments. I am therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u112	I call Mr Pierre Dharréville to speak on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u113	This article enshrines in the law the need to archive the single occupational risk assessment document and thus allows for better traceability of the exposure of employees during their professional career. Keeping track of this document over time is a very good thing. However, I regret that the mechanism you are proposing is incomplete. For my part, I had tabled amendments to supplement it, but they were found inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution. We should consider how these documents can be publicly archived, if only because some companies will have disappeared when the employee needs access to them. However, as things stand at present, the proposed operative part is one of the positive aspects of this text. But if he's pretty good, he's a little untabotious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u114	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u115	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Article 2 aims to introduce into law the single occupational risk assessment document and reinforces it by attaching to it the annual occupational risk prevention programme which naturally results from it. This can be welcomed in several ways. First, the DUERP is the central tool of the preventive approach, it is a very powerful tool. It summarizes the risks to which employees are exposed. It is therefore the natural starting point for drawing conclusions and deciding on various actions. This is what the social partners foresee in the national interprofessional agreement: "The single document presents the results of the risk analysis from which the company identifies relevant prevention actions to be implemented and identifies the company's resources that can be mobilised for this purpose. There is a change of focus on this unique document. While it was too often perceived by companies as a constraint, it is conceived here as the tool for steering prevention policy. Article 2 is therefore very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u116	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u117	I welcome the text which has been adopted in committee and which provides for the archiving of the single occupational risk assessment document. Traceability of exposure to employees' occupational risks is essential, as has been pointed out several times during the hearings that you have organised. Thus the new version of the bill provides for the arrangements for keeping and making available the document to a list of persons and bodies to be fixed by decree. Like my colleague Pierre Dharréville, I would like you to confirm to me, Madam rapporteur, that when a company closes down, it will be possible to find this DUERP. If so, can you outline who will keep this document? For the system to be effective, it should be the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment – DIRECCTE – or the Occupational Health and Prevention Service – SPST.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u118	We come to the amendments. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u119	This amendment by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz aims to make the contribution of the Economic Social Committee to the analysis of risks in the company pre-emptive and mandatory, instead of a mere possibility. It is also important to ensure that the single occupational risk assessment document is monitored and updated with a strict and precise timetable. Finally, the detailed list of measures to be taken in the coming year should identify the time limits within which the measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u121	All the measures proposed in the amendment are already included in the text and have been reaffirmed in the Committee on Social Affairs. These clarifications are therefore super-fetative. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u123	The rapporteur said what was essential. I confirm to you and to Mrs Dalloz that the SSC is consulted every time, that it is well in the loop of the risk assessment. I am therefore against this amendment. I could also have invited you to withdraw it after I reassured you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u124	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u125	I would like to take advantage of the examination of this amendment to bounce back on two aspects. First, the discussion is absolutely necessary as well as the opinion of the SSC. However, it is the employer who assumes responsibility for the document as the person responsible for the work environment and the measures taken, which does not prevent them from being discussed, including criticising them. Secondly, I forgot to ask you, during the general discussion, how to ensure that existing documents will be kept well when the law is passed. Some companies have already done an archiving and it would be regrettable that some unique documents disappear when archiving becomes mandatory. Can you take steps to ensure that the records that exist today and are archived can be integrated into the future archival holdings?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u126	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 383, 402, 474 and 500. Identical Amendments Nos 383 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup and 402 by Mr Richard Ramos are being defended. Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor to support Amendment No. 474.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u127	It aims to remove the reference to the organisation of work as one of the occupational risks which must be the subject of preventive measures and therefore prior assessments. Indeed, if the national interprofessional agreement mentions the organisation of work, it did not intend to change the scope of prior assessment of occupational risks, already defined by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u128	Amendment No 500 by Mr Gérard Cherpion is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u129	We do not share your view of the ANI, which on many occasions refers to the importance of work organisation and to take into account real work situations, particularly for the prevention of psychosocial risks. This request, which has been widely made in the Committee on Social Affairs by many colleagues, has been validated. Moreover, there are already obligations in the principles of prevention which relate to the organisation of work. These are elements which have already been taken into account and which still need to be taken into account, particularly with regard to the prevention of psychosocial risks. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u131	I understand both the motivations of the rapporteur and the authors of these amendments. In substance, the organisation of work is an integral part of the occupational risk assessment fields in the context of the enterprise. The clarification provided in the bill therefore appears to be of little value. At the same time, it is not particularly unacceptable. The Labour Code already provides for the employer to plan prevention by integrating it into a coherent set, including work organisation and working conditions. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u132	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u133	The bill does not talk about suffering at work and its root causes: the very high workload and the high penitibility of certain professions. According to INSEE, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, a worker lives on average six years less than an executive, and according to a report by INSERM, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, published in 2010, the sewerers have seventeen years of life expectancy less than the average. Identifying risks is good, but it is totally useless if it is not accompanied by a real effort to reduce them. The amendments that we had proposed to reduce hardness at work were considered inadmissible because they were considered irrelevant. Decreasing the use of night and evening work in companies is inadmissible because it is considered irrelevant: this is indicative of your conception of occupational health prevention. In the absence of this amendment, we propose that companies' STPs should at least take into account the workload of employees and the tenability of their positions in their occupational risk assessments. The code already specifies that the risk assessment takes into account the differentiated impact of exposure to risk by sex. There is therefore no reason to refuse to mention the workload per employee and the length of the jobs, especially since these considerations are often relegated to the background under various pretexts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u135	The factors of penitibility are already considered by the principles of prevention as risks which the employer must take into account; They must, of course, be taken into account in the single document. The aim of this bill is to make it possible to act much more upstream, in terms of people's follow-up, precisely to avoid professional wear and tear. A little later we will examine measures to prevent job disintegration, such as the creation of a liaison meeting, aimed at improving the monitoring of the health status of employees. So unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u137	It is not unrelated to what we said earlier: the law cannot systematically list everything at the risk of forgetting something. I repeat, Mrs Fiat, that article L. 41-21-1 of the Labour Code imposes a generic obligation to take into account all the risks to the physical and mental health of workers: I think it must reassure you. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u138	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u139	In this case, the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if everything is already in the Labour Code – a labour code that you already destroyed well in 2017 – why redo a law? Since this is a specific proposal for a law on occupational health, which already lists a whole series of things, such as the sex of employees, we propose to clarify in the second sentence of the first paragraph of Article L. 4121-3 of the Labour Code that account must be taken of the employee's workload and the length of his position. It is you who want to amend this paragraph, it is you who have begun to list risks, it is you who have come down to this degree of precision, it is not me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u140	I have before me three amendments, Nos 254, 70 and 178, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 70 and 178 are identical. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No 254, if, however, her vocal cords allow her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u141	My vocal cords are like me: they never let go. The single document which is required under this article to identify occupational risks in the enterprise will be an important document, provided that the Economic Social Committee systematically contributes to its preparation. The implementation of the resulting programme must therefore be carried out within a strict and precise timetable and must be monitored, failing which it will only formulate good intentions which will never come to light. In committee, the rapporteurs stated that the text was already sufficiently precise in this respect. However, no mention is made of how to ensure that the measures taken are effectively implemented. One can very well update a document without ever checking its application, which would be insufficient: a real follow-up of the measures for the protection of employees must be put in place. This is the very purpose of this provision, which was submitted to us by the National Federation of Workers' Accidents and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u142	Identical Amendments Nos 70 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 178 by Mr Dino Cinieri are being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u143	As I explained earlier, all these elements are already taken into account in the text as drafted and strengthened in the Committee on Social Affairs: unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u145	Same opinion as the rapporteur, Madam President. It goes without saying – but it is always better to say it – that the contribution of the SSC is antecedent. All this is already specified in a decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u146	I call Mrs Granjus to support Amendment No. 210.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u147	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen occupational health prevention in company restructuring projects. Psychosocial risks are particularly important in the event of a restructuring of the company, but they are often forgotten in favour of the financial aspects of the operation. That is why I believe that it is particularly important and necessary to strengthen the role of occupational health prevention services in relation to psychosocial risks from the inception of the restructuring project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u149	We have raised a great deal with you, Mrs Granjus, the specific problem of the companies that are restructuring because, as you said, these operations have important consequences in terms of psychosocial risks. We heard your warning about the need to allow occupational health services to properly target these situations. We therefore give a favourable opinion to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u151	It is indeed, Mrs Granjus, a concrete dimension of the company's evolution, which may be in the need to reorganise its activity. These reorganizations must of course be part of the reflection on occupational risks. I'll have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u152	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u153	I would like to stress the relevance of Mr Granjus' inquiry. Indeed, it is clear to what extent corporate restructuring weakens employees, subject to an increase not only in psychosocial risks, but also in tensions in the company and in their work. Particular attention must therefore be paid to those realities. However, I know companies that are constantly undergoing restructuring, subject to capital movements that are like a sword of Damocles above their heads. We come back every two or three years. This is a fundamental problem for the social and economic organization of the activity. The means to act on his cause should be developed. Of course, there is a need for support and extreme vigilance when these companies are affected, and I am the first to claim it, as I said in the general discussion, but the source of the problem should be addressed. For the moment, that is not what we have decided to do and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u154	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u155	I shall vote with both hands for Mrs Granjus' amendment, but I agree with what Mr Dharréville has just said about permanent restructuring. Look at what's happening with our hospitals: COPERMO – an interdepartmental committee on the performance and modernization of the supply of hospital care – decides to close beds, not to do so, and then to close them again, all in the midst of a pandemic crisis. There's gonna be a lot of work, so we're gonna have to hire doctors at work. On the other hand, the rapporteur, there is a problem of consistency: certain risks, such as the risks of penitibility at work, are not worth specifying, but here the psychosocial risks, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u156	I call Mrs Granjus to support Amendment No. 205.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u157	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that prior to each reorganization project, the employer must carry out an assessment of the impact of this project on the mental health status of employees and that this assessment must be communicated to the health services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u159	Without denying the importance of what you are pointing at, I find that you are adding a fairly binding obligation to the employer. This psychological assessment can be difficult to implement, especially since it is not specified what it should be, who should handle it or when exactly. If we therefore believe that your previous amendment represents a real step forward in the provision of support by the health services at work, this will be an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u160	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u161	The employer already has an obligation to protect the health, not only physical but also mental, of employees. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. Furthermore, as the rapporteur has said very well, your previous amendment covers the whole field. I will therefore invite you to withdraw this opinion, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u162	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 390, 405 and 501. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 390.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u163	Madam President, if I may, I will also defend Amendment No 501 by Mr Cherpion. As soon as it was originally drafted, Article 2 of this draft law provided that the social and economic committee and its health, safety and working conditions committee, where they exist, would contribute to the risk analysis in the company. This wording is in line with article L. 23-12-9 of the Labour Code, which provides that the SSC carries out occupational risk analysis. Furthermore, the national interprofessional agreement signed by the social partners on 9 December 2020 specifies the role of staff representatives in the analysis of the company's risks prior to the drafting of the single document. It is therefore not necessary to add that the SSC is consulted on the single occupational risk assessment document and its updates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u164	Amendment No 405 by Mr Richard Ramos is being defended. Amendment No 501 by Mr Gérard Cherpion was defended by Mr Ramadier. What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u165	It is precisely the role of this law to transpose the provisions of the agreement. The place of the SSC has been very clearly reaffirmed by the social partners. We are very keen on respect for social dialogue. Therefore, the opinion on these amendments is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u167	The same opinion, for the reasons set out very well by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u168	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u169	In committee, the rapporteur, you told us that CARSAT – occupational health and pension insurance funds – and occupational health prevention services could already work together. However, the ANI specifies that it would be desirable to clarify the tasks of the AT-MP branch and to make the advisory role that CARSATs can play in prevention more legible and understandable, beyond their task of determining the level of contributions. That is why I propose by this amendment that charters of partnership and innovative cooperation can be signed between companies, prevention and health services at work and CARSATs in order to experiment, promote, encourage and amplify the prevention of occupational risks for the benefit of companies and employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u170	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u171	You are right, Mrs de Vaucouleurs, it is very important that CARSATs can coordinate with occupational health services and other prevention actors. This is already the case in many territories where the implementation of cooperation platforms is very advanced. The Social Security Financing Act passed in 2019 allows for the establishment of platforms dedicated to the prevention of occupational disintegration. You stress the need for coordination between the actors, and I can only agree with you. However, your amendment is already satisfactory and I therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u173	The rapporteur is right to point out that these arrangements already exist, as I have seen in the Hauts-de-France. Such agreements are indeed possible, in particular thanks to the multi-annual contract of objectives and means, which also involves the DIRECCTE. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs de Vaucouleurs, failing which the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u174	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u175	How, then, will the drafting of this bill enable the social partners to meet their expectations by clarifying and distinguishing clearly the separate tasks of the AT-MP branch relating to the increase in contributions and to the council respectively? It seems to me important to conduct this reflection. My amendment seeks to clarify these two tasks and I am fully prepared to withdraw it, provided that the expectations expressed by the ANI are met.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u176	I therefore understand that the amendment is retained, Mrs de Vaucouleurs. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u177	This debate on the role of CARSAT has already taken place in the previous period. They have not only an advisory role but also a supervisory function which can result in an increase in AT-MP contributions. Above all, CARSAT's preventors have expressed their desire to retain all their prerogatives, which are not limited to any of these functions, and they should be able to do so. However, there may be a need for a more comprehensive review of the organisation of occupational health services, which could enter the world of social security, but this would merit further discussion, first and foremost with the social partners. The reform we are debating could have been an opportunity to do so, but we are, for the time being, clearly not there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u178	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 212, 299, 364, 392 and 502. I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 212.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u179	The aim of this amendment by Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo is to keep separate the single occupational risk assessment document and the annual prevention programme for TPEs and SMEs. The author of the amendment considers that, in its current wording, the draft law is making too complex a development by systematically attaching an annual prevention programme to the DUERP for all companies. At this stage, this could lead to the disengagement of employers from what the social partners want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u180	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u181	It comes back to a debate that we started in committee on the need to link the prevention programme to the DUERP. While I agree with the rapporteur's intention to rally all companies to a preventive approach, the obligation to systematically translate the DUERP into an annual prevention programme seems to me to be too strong a constraint – although, of course, I do not question the first and indispensable obligation to update the DUERP. It is therefore necessary, in this respect, to allow companies time to integrate this new obligation by having the interest of this provision matured rather than to make it live as a new additional constraint, especially since the ANI has repeatedly stressed that the evaluation programme must involve the social partners and the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u182	Identical amendments Nos 364 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 392 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 502 by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u183	First of all, we must recall the challenges of the bill and of the ANI: it is a question of turning the health system at work into prevention. The ANI, which we intend to respect scrupulously – which we are sometimes criticized for – well understands this provision of both risk assessment, with a view to collective traceability, and the resulting preventive action plan, and rightly so, because without a preventive action plan, there are no preventive measures, and therefore no prevention measures. What the amendments before us propose is to stop at the risk assessment process in companies with fewer than 50 employees, without going to the action plan. It would therefore be a matter of assessing the risks – which is certainly a relatively intense work, and which takes time – and then stopping before reaching the stage of the action plan, which is the easiest and most source-driven step. These identical amendments do not, therefore, seem to me to be justified in terms of simplification for TPEs and SMEs. What is more, if we do not define an action plan for TPEs and SMEs, 7 million employees are deprived of it – I would remind you that 80% of French employees work in TPEs and SMEs: as much as saying that prevention is far from affecting anyone! It really needs to be clear, and that is the spirit of this bill, that we want to take employers into this process and help them. In particular, the text provides for occupational health services to play a major role in supporting companies to develop this risk assessment and the resulting action plan. In addition, employers have been paying contributions for this service for years and should therefore already be able to benefit from it. Thanks to our proposal for a law and the commitment of the social partners, this approach will be reinforced. The employer also pays AT-MP contributions, which finance in particular the CARSATs, which also have this role to support companies in the preparation of their single document, as well as many other actors, such as ARACT, the regional association for the improvement of working conditions. On the other hand, the professional branches have a major role to play in this field and they must not be defeated. I would point out that some branches have taken up the issue, proposing a risk assessment but also pre-mixed preventive measures, which greatly facilitate things. Let us ask the professional branches to "do the job" and to go to the end to allow these companies and their employees to benefit from preventive measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u185	Finally, the Labour Code already allows the Government to simplify by decree the measures to update the single document for TPEs. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, I invite you to reject these amendments and to invite the Government to issue this decree as soon as possible in order to simplify the lives of TPEs and SMEs without abandoning the objective of prevention. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u187	The question concerns the single document and the action programme to prevent occupational risks in different types of enterprises. A very concrete example: in the baker of the central square of Armentières, the house Legrand, is there a unique document? This company of four employees has no problem to do risk prevention, it is practiced on a daily basis: it is obvious that we do not approach without caution or without equipment of the sole oven, that we wear safety shoes and that we are attentive to hygiene standards! The question is that of formalism: neither the baker of Armentières nor those of the territories you represent have, like the company in which I worked, a staff in charge of human resources who can develop a programme to prevent occupational risks. Do they do operational prevention with their collaborators? The answer is yes: they do it every day. Should they make progress in drafting the single document? The answer remains positive because it is clear that one out of every two TPEs does not have one. The rapporteurs are therefore right to say that occupational health services must provide support. Our aim, however, is not to add an additional layer of administrative formalism to these companies, but to protect the health of the workers they employ in an operational way. Therefore, it is in favour of all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u188	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u189	We all agree that the single document is absolutely essential, but, since very small businesses do not necessarily have a human resources manager or a human resources department capable of developing an annual prevention programme, they should not be forced to do so. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u190	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u191	I said earlier that 80 % of companies have fewer than 10 employees, and the amendments we are considering stress that it is already very difficult for these companies to draw up a single document. The example you have taken, Secretary of State, is excellent in this regard: the local baker has neither the material time nor the opportunity to pay for a HRD to develop a single document – those of you, if any, who have been involved in making such a document in a company know that it is a very complex job, which a small business has a lot of difficulty in carrying out. I would therefore like to thank you, Minister, for defending the 80% of companies with fewer than 10 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u192	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u193	If we all agree that too many administrative obligations should not be imposed on SMEs, we can also agree that France is lagging behind in terms of prevention and health at work. For example, Germany devotes 10% of its contributions to support SMEs in the preparation of an action plan, compared with 3% in France. It is time for prevention services at work to provide the service companies pay for without having access to it, as they are not accompanied in the implementation of the action plan. What is the purpose of a single document if it is seen only as an administrative document, an administrative constraint, and it is not at the end of the process by deploying an action plan for the health of employees? It is very important to repeat that SMEs employ the vast majority of employees – 80%, as the rapporteur pointed out. Is that to say that we would waive the right of 80 per cent of the employees in our country to a preventive approach on the part of their company? I think that abandoning this idea is abandoning the heart of the mechanism that we want to introduce, which is precisely aimed at completing the preventive approach. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Today, the single document is relatively cumbersome from the point of view of administrative management – I agree with you on this point – but establishing it is an obligation for businesses. On the other hand, the content of the action plan is not standardized: it is sufficient for each risk to define an action to prevent it. So let's simplify the single document, but let's get to the end of the preventive approach. That is the strategy we propose to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u194	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u195	It is not a question of abandoning a preventive approach in small businesses. Only, if the single document is in theory mandatory, we know very well that in practice, there is no one in small businesses – starting with us: how many Members of Parliament employers have a single document for their team? The ANI states that one of the determinants of the prevention culture is the effective support of employers in exercising their responsibility for risk assessment. This creates the conditions of trust, a guarantee of the proper integration of a new obligation considered to be meaningful, and not as a new constraint in addition to all those already imposed on employers, which they have not yet had time to apply. We have to do this, but it can only be done through accompaniment that requires the means to be considered, because advice is expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u196	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u197	I understand your willingness to ensure that the prevention approach is applied everywhere. But, as I said earlier, prevention can be done without excessive formalism: it is already the case in small shops throughout the territory. Mr. Bouley, for having myself filled in a lot of unique documents, I can tell you that they already provide for the establishment of an action plan, which is included in the Order-in-Council. There is a planning obligation. On the merits, therefore, your request is satisfied. Moreover, a plan is very different from a program...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u198	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u199	Far from requiring specific inputs and a human resources team, the action plan is a very concrete operational document, already included in the DUERP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u200	Amendment No 225 by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u201	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u202	It proposes to better organize the traceability of employees exposed to chemical hazards by employers through the single document. The existing rules on the prevention of chemical hazards at work, of Community origin, are inherited from the Framework Directive of 12 June 1989, reinforced by the Directive of 7 April 1998 and the Directive of 29 April 2004 on the protection of workers from the risks associated with exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work. These European provisions require individual traceability of the chemical risks to which employees are exposed. Employers must in particular draw up an updated list of workers concerned by these risks and list the nature, degree and duration of exposure to chemical agents. Since the ordinances adopted in 2017 as part of the reform of the Labour Code, the employer is no longer obliged to fulfil these obligations, even though the risk of exposure to dangerous or carcinogenic chemical agents concerns 12% of employees – and again, we do not know everything, because the delay between exposure to chemical agents and the appearance of diseases is long enough. Moreover, in addition to the risks to the health of the workers concerned, France is therefore in a state of sub-transposition of the above-mentioned European Directives. Our country is therefore facing a condemnation by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The amendment therefore proposes to re-establish the employer's obligation to maintain a list of employees exposed to hazardous chemical agents and to draw up an individual exposure sheet for each employee concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u204	You are addressing the particular issue of chemical hazards, which we have discussed at length in committee. I would remind you that in particular we have adopted an amendment to take account of polyexposure to chemical risks. You propose to restore the exposure sheet, but this device was inapplicable. Indeed, in his report on exposure to chemical hazards, Professor Frimat estimated that only 5% of companies had written these sheets. In addition, other tools to trace exposures to chemical hazards already exist, such as the company profile, the job description, or the information available to employees on the risks associated with mutagenic, carcinogenic or toxic agents. The bill also provides for the retention of all versions of the single document. An amendment by Mr Didier Martin, which we shall be considering at a later stage, proposes to clarify that this preservation must be ensured for a very long period of time, which will allow account to be taken of the very long-term effects of exposure to these risks. From our point of view, therefore, the device is now sufficiently locked. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u206	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u207	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u208	When it comes to preventing exposure to chemical risks, we are not up to the challenges. In my constituency, I meet many employees suffering from such exhibitions. In the face of the risks involved, we must now raise the level of intervention and the level of prevention. Provisions had been envisaged, which we did not even allow time to be implemented and to prove themselves: this is regrettable. We could take other steps: for example, I have tabled a bill that tends to create a job registry. Indeed, exposure to chemical agents – as well as to other risks – is linked to identifiable workplaces. Most of the diseases caused by exposure to chemical agents could be eliminated. It is not acceptable for people to be exposed to mutagenic, carcinogenic or reprotoxic agents that cause cancer and sometimes even cause death. This is a particularly serious subject, to which we cannot remain insensitive. The existing preventive measures do not seem satisfactory to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u209	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u210	If there's a place in our country where we can write protocols, it's in hospitals and health facilities. You have certainly all read the survey of caregivers working in oncology services for people with cancer, which shows that these caregivers are themselves suffering from cancer because they have been in contact with chemotherapy products. The protocols were very well written, but the caregivers were not protected. Mr Dharréville's amendment is very clear, and at least helps to protect employees. It is particularly painful that, in our country, people who treat people with cancer are themselves suffering from the disease. We are not talking about small products without consequences, but about chemicals that are dangerous to health. Pierre Dharréville's amendment proposes that exposure to these products in working life should be well supervised. In this respect, we cannot simply say that it has already been done, that it will be done better later, or that things have been seen a little upstream or will be done downstream! Moreover, every social security funding bill keeps repeating that prevention must be done, on the grounds that treating cancer is expensive: if we want social security to save money, let's start by protecting employees so that they don't get sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u211	[[Smile on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There was a tie in the voice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u212	I call Mrs Granjus to support Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u213	It provides that "the single occupational risk assessment document must transcribe psychosocial risks prior to the implementation of a restructuring project".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u215	You go back to the importance of taking into account restructuring situations. However, we are concerned about the wording of your amendment, since it implies that restructuring firms should be prioritised in terms of psychosocial risks compared to companies with risk factors unrelated to restructuring. Your amendment therefore seems contrary to your intention to see this factor taken into account, but not to the detriment of others who might even be heavier. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u217	Same opinion. The request seems to me to be satisfied and I therefore ask for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u218	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 30 and 216. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u219	It proposes that the content and modalities for updating the single occupational risk assessment document be specified by regulation. As you indicated, Secretary of State, this document includes both preventive measures and the resulting protective measures. It may therefore be possible to modify the content of the annual prevention programme, which has already been discussed during the examination of the previous amendments, according to the size of the enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u220	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u221	Similar to the previous amendment, this amendment is intended to supplement article 2, paragraph 9, to clarify that "the content and modalities for updating the single occupational risk assessment document will be specified by decree".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u222	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u223	We believe that, as it stands, the provisions relating to the single document are sufficiently precise, and that there is no need to increase its modalities: this will allow companies to appropriate the tool and adapt it. Furthermore, I repeat that, by a decree in the Council of State, the Government can already simplify the arrangements for updating the single document for enterprises with fewer than 11 employees. It's over!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u224	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-15-O1169.u225	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. The meeting is adjourned.
