ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u1	The next item is the debate on the conclusions of the report of the fact-finding mission on children without identity. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first, we will hear the rapporteurs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Laurence Dumont, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u2	Several years ago, I was captivated – there is no other word – by an article by Robert Badinter presenting the book Les Enfants phantoms, which he had prefaced. I bought it, I read it, and since then, in the National Assembly, in the Parliamentary Assembly of la Francophonie – APF –, in the Inter-Parliamentary Union – IPU – and in my constituency, I have been working to raise awareness of the tragedy of undeclared children in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u3	I confirm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u4	[[The speaker shows a diagram]] What are we talking about? In committee, at the end of September, I started by presenting a drawing – which often says more than a long speech. It shows that a quarter of the world's children under the age of five are not registered at birth. A quarter of children under the age of five therefore have no legal existence. These figures are surprising, as few people are aware of the magnitude of the phenomenon. They question us: from a country like France, this seems impossible. Yet, even at home, this phenomenon exists – I will mention it later. France can play a decisive role in dealing with this problem – I am convinced. That is why I proposed to Marielle de Sarnez that an information mission should start working to decline the actions France could take in order to help give these children a legal existence. I wish here to pay tribute to our late President; She would have appreciated this debate, it was her wish. As she had written to me on the evening of the presentation of our report in committee at the end of September, she wanted to "help bring out this great issue in the debate". The disease didn't give him time, but we're continuing this fight. The major leap that we have made by introducing the promotion of birth registration and access to reliable civil states into the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, adopted yesterday at first reading by the Assembly, unanimously participates in it. This is a great step, by which France undertakes to act. It must be pursued; Our debates today can – and must – allow us to go further. The elements of the debate are well identified: one out of every four children under the age of five is not registered at birth, representing 166 million children under the age of five in the world; One child under five years of age in three has no birth certificate, or 237 million children. According to UNICEF – the United Nations Children's Fund – South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa account for 87% of unregistered children under five years of age. But also in France, although we have an old and efficient civil registration system, we have children without identity, whether within the Roma community, among the children of foreigners in an irregular situation and unaccompanied minors, or in the ultra-marine territories of Guyana and, above all, Mayotte. The causes of non-registration at birth are known, and vary from country to country. Underdevelopment is the first: the more a state has a high public budget, the more it will be able to set up and run civil registration centres. Significant population growth can aggravate this underdevelopment factor. The cost of registering or issuing a birth certificate may also apply. Sometimes, too, the legal framework is inadequate or inadequate: some discriminatory laws, for example, prevent women from declaring their children. In addition, there is a lack of public awareness of the importance of registration, or customs, which can play a key role. Finally, political or health crises and armed conflict can lead to displacement or discourage parents from moving to declare a birth. The consequences are dramatic for children and problems for States. The right to be registered at birth is the first of the rights, without which all others are only paper rights for the child and then for the adult he becomes. Do you know that the World Bank estimates that one billion adults do not have documents proving their identity? So what are the consequences? Access to restricted rights – access to nationality, social, civil and political rights, and even justice – is severely reduced; increased vulnerability to all the worst forms of exploitation and violence – child prostitution, early marriage, illegal adoption, forced labour, organ trafficking, involvement in criminal activities, recruitment into armed combat, child soldiers, etc. –; very limited access to education – for the adult, getting a job in the formal economy, getting married, voting, travelling is inaccessible. For states, finally, administering a population that cannot be properly assessed is difficult. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] The task seems enormous – it is – but solutions exist. I would say even more: I do not know any other problem that heavy with meaning and consequences, but finally as simple to solve. It's not even so much about money. I leave it to my colleague Aina Kuric, with whom I had the pleasure of working, to present our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u5	Mrs Aina Kuric, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u6	The observations we make in our report have been presented to you, and I would like to point out that initiatives have been launched to encourage birth registration, from the major texts of international law to national actions, to the mobilization of NGOs and the international community, including France. It is important to recall that civil status is, by its very nature, a regal matter that requires the commitment of the States concerned. Some States have initiated fundamental reforms to improve their civil status, often with significant results – such as Côte d'Ivoire, Morocco, Serbia and India. However, there is a need to distinguish between countries that register births and those that develop systems of recruitment of their entire population, without necessarily focusing on birth registration, such as India. National initiatives are often supported by regional actions, but also, very frequently, by the international community. UN agencies and many NGOs also promote birth registration. Civil society actors also contribute by developing particularly innovative technologies, such as the successfully tested iCivil bracelet in Burkina Faso. Its operation is simple: births are pre-registered at maternity, scanning a bracelet attributed to each child. Then, the registrar issues a birth certificate, scanning the bracelet, when the parents appear before him. What about France? The issue of children without identity is dealt with in a rather fragmented manner within the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, with various departments involved. The Agence française de développement – AFD – is still too often focused on digital identification, with no direct link to birth registration. The Ministry of the Interior also intervenes, through CIVIPOL, its international technical cooperation operator. Communities are also mobilizing: decentralised civil registration cooperation actions in La Roche-sur-Yon or Grenoble are very promising and should be encouraged. Despite all these great initiatives, we have two main findings. First, civil registration is not yet a priority for many States, as well as for the international community, even though it is essential for development. Secondly, national and international initiatives are insufficiently coordinated. That is why we have formulated twenty-three proposals, as operational as possible, around three axes. The first axis corresponds to the actions that France can take on its territory. We must honour our international commitments by giving a legal identity to all children on our soil. Let us be exemplary and train other countries in our wake. To achieve this objective, France must strengthen the technical and human resources dedicated to civil registration, particularly in Guyana and Mayotte. Moreover, the reconstitution of the civil status of foreign minors is still too often long and tedious. To remedy this, bilateral cooperation on civil status could be strengthened with countries that are too long to respond to France's requests for the lifting of acts. The second aspect of our proposals concerns France's financial and technical contributions, which can be streamlined and strengthened. Given the development challenge of children without identity, it seems necessary to make a voluntary contribution to the UN actors in birth registration in the next finance bill – this is an amendment idea! With regard to the smallest projects, the solidarity fund for innovative projects, civil societies, the Francophonie and human development – FSPI – of the Quai d'Orsay can also be used for initiatives to strengthen civil status. Finally, the third priority is to mobilise the many tools available to French diplomacy. France is fortunate to have one of the first diplomatic networks in the world. By mobilizing it, it would be sure to have a strong impact on birth registration and the issuance of birth certificates. At the same time, diplomats can carry out all possible advocacy actions in major international organizations – in this regard, the Francophone space offers obvious opportunities. We could also cite the work of the Organisation internationale de la francophonie – OIF – and the Parliamentary Assembly of la francophonie in this area. France can also mobilize its Permanent Representations in New York and Geneva to promote the theme at the United Nations. In short, there are plenty of opportunities. One of our proposals specifically targets the universal periodic review of the United Nations Human Rights Council as an opportunity to promote birth registration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u8	Finally, we propose to better identify and strengthen support for birth registration in official development assistance. For example, AFD and CIVIPOL could systematically include birth registration when they are financially involved in projects to recruit the population and create biometric databases. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The promotion of birth registration is a unique opportunity to significantly enhance the effectiveness of development policies. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for your interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u9	We come to the statements made by the speakers of the groups. Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u10	What is France doing in the face of the scourge of children without identity? Until the adoption of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, yesterday, it dealt with it in a fragmented manner, on a case-by-case basis. Within the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, no fewer than five missions, delegations and other crisis centres deal with the subject in part – although, since September 2019, a new portfolio on justice and civil status issues has been created to strengthen coordination between the Ministry's civil status services. Operators such as AFD and CIVIPOL, or the humanitarian and stabilization operations centre – COHS – of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, are already carrying out actions to support civil status, indirectly for AFD and COHS, in a more targeted way for CIVIPOL, but focused mainly on the creation of secure national biometric files. Actions specifically related to birth registration are more recent and fewer; However, they are the most decisive. Diplomatic posts also follow projects in the countries concerned, but without a road map or specific awareness. I was surprised to see that some ambassadors from countries particularly affected by this scourge with which I exchanged – I will not mention any names – had little or no knowledge of the problem. The creation of local development councils, provided for in the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, is a real opportunity, both to raise awareness about the subject and to launch projects – including decentralized cooperation. While decentralised cooperation can play a decisive role, it remains marginal. However, where it has been implemented on civil status issues, the results are very positive, both for French communities and agents and for their counterparts in the countries concerned. Finally, at the level of international bodies, while France participates in the negotiation and promotion of the major texts that mention access to civil status, it does not yet carry out specific advocacy actions in this area. In the National Assembly, the APF has long seized the subject. I had, under his auspices, organized a debate here, several years ago, bringing together many actors and organisations, in the presence of Robert Badinter in particular. At the Lusaka General Assembly in 2016, the Inter-Parliamentary Union unanimously adopted the inclusion of an emergency item on its agenda at the initiative of France. The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented its report at the end of September and the Assembly incorporated birth registration into its official development assistance priorities in 2020 thanks to last night's vote. So, it's moving on! But the observation on France's action in the area of access to civil status finally corresponds to that at international level, i.e. the lack of coordination and the actions still insufficient and ineffective. I hope that the introduction of birth registration and the creation of reliable civil states within our law will be able to change the situation. Other actions are to be implemented. The 23 proposals put forward by Aina Kuric, which we wanted as operational as possible, can allow us to be an absolutely major player on the subject. It starts by acting here, on our territory, in France. We need to be exemplary in bringing other countries into our wake. I call on the Minister of the Interior and Members of Parliament to plan for the strengthening of the technical and human resources dedicated to civil registration in Guyana and Mayotte. I also appeal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to step up bilateral cooperation on civil status with the countries bordering Guyana and Mayotte and to restore the civil status of foreign minors. There are also financial and technical levers that we can put at the service of this cause. This should be reflected in the next draft of the Finance Act by an additional financial contribution to UNICEF on this issue and by a voluntary contribution to the United Nations Working Group on Legal Identity. It is already included in the draft law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. For smaller projects, the solidarity fund for innovative projects, civil societies, the Francophonie and human development – the famous FSPI of the Quai d'Orsay – could be used for projects to strengthen civil status. Finally, it was recalled at the moment, France has the chance to own one of the first diplomatic networks in the world. By mobilizing it, it would be sure to have a strong impact on birth registration and the issuance of birth certificates. Let us make sure that this is done with the law on solidarity development. The Quai d'Orsay is here the key player in our action. Also, Mr. Secretary of State, it is essential that your ministry expands its communication and follow-up on the topic, dedicates one or more posts to children without identity – for the time being, only half a full-time equivalent is dedicated to it – urges diplomats to carry out advocacy activities in major international organizations, strengthens support for birth registration in official development assistance. For example, AFD and CIVIPOL could – this is one of our proposals – systematically include birth registration when they participate financially in projects to recruit the population and create biometric databases. I raised this point this afternoon with the director of AFD, Rémy Rioux, at a hearing of the APF. I think we'll have to go back. Again, the law on solidarity development should make it possible to make progress on this aspect. A clear opportunity is, of course, the French-speaking area, which is already very committed to the issue and which needs to be supported and encouraged. France can also use its Permanent Representations in New York and Geneva to promote the theme at the United Nations, whether in regular dialogue with United Nations agencies, in speeches or in the negotiation of resolutions on children's rights or other topics related to the topic. You see, there's plenty of opportunities. Aina Kuric also referred to our proposal, which focuses more specifically on the universal periodic review of the United Nations Human Rights Council, which is a major opportunity to promote birth registration and is completely underutilized. Finally, the organisation of events dedicated to the topic is also essential to make it known. As 20 November is the International Day for the Rights of the Child, a conference on children without identity could be organized annually by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in partnership with international organizations and civil society. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament also has a role to play in disseminating this sustainable development objective 16.9 to the official development assistance partner countries, not least in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also in parliamentary missions and friendship groups. The latter can provide genuine forums for discussion with parliamentarians from the countries concerned on their civil registration needs. Moreover, the deputies of the French abroad who will be members of the local development councils set up with embassies have a key role to play in generating and supporting projects that embassies can finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u11	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u12	We too, individually, in our constituencies, have the means to make this scourge known. Why, will you tell me? Because few citizens are aware of this problem. And yet, when they know it, none of them remain indifferent. I see this after four years of calls for projects launched in my own constituency on this subject among college students and high school students, four years during which French and African youth worked on the creation of awareness-raising tools on this issue of undeclared children in civil status, exchanged and built communication materials with students from Togo, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Senegal and Benin, thus creating an original advocacy work here and there, and allowing, step by step, to contribute to the mobilization to give a legal existence to all these children. On this occasion, I would like to thank the historic and constant partners of this project, namely UNICEF, the Association du notariat francophone – ANF –, Aide et Action, Regards de femmes, iCivil, Michel Welterlin, producer of the only existing film on the subject, and of course the rectorate of Normandy. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, LT and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes after several days of work on France's official development assistance, which has determined its objectives and means of action to help the poorest countries, to ensure access to health, education and water, to promote the autonomous economic and social development of the people, in short to enable them to have dignified living and development conditions. Without ensuring every inhabitant of these countries a legal existence, all our efforts will be in vain. I therefore invite you, alongside the Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who unanimously voted in favour of the report we presented with Aina Kuric, to defend our proposals and to act within the framework of your mandate and your actions to ensure that every child counts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u13	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u14	[[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] Ladies and gentlemen, again, tell me! That is true, we have often dealt with this issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs when we examined the draft law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. But I welcome the fact that this subject has been highlighted and I thank the Socialist Group, to whom we owe the inclusion of this subject on the agenda of the public sitting. It is by registering his birth that society recognizes for the first time the existence and identity of a child. The right to be recognized as a person by law is crucial for the enjoyment of life-long protection and is a prerequisite for the exercise of all other rights. The birth certificate allows access to legal identity, and it is on this basis that children can obtain a nationality and enjoy protection against violence and exploitation. This proof of age enables, for example, the prevention of child labour and marriage, as well as the recruitment of minors in armed conflict. The birth certificate may also condition access to social services, including health, education and justice services. The adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals by the UN General Assembly in September 2015 has made birth registration a priority in international development. The 16th Sustainable Development Goal includes a specific target to ensure a legal identity for all, including through birth registration by 2030. It is complemented by target 17.9, which calls for support for the strengthening of statistical capacity for the establishment of robust civil registration systems. These systems produce crucial statistics, including birth registration, which are essential for sustainable human and economic development. Today, I want to make a wish, that of universal birth registration and the guarantee of legal identity for every child by 2030. It is estimated that 237 million children under five years of age worldwide do not have birth certificates. The reasons are often the same: a lack of resources and investment in accurate and comprehensive civil registration systems, coupled with barriers to access to birth registration services, not to mention political, regulatory and institutional barriers. We know that women in the world do not always have the right to register and register their children. However, increasing the birth registration rate is not sufficient in itself. There is also a need to improve the quality of civil registration systems in order to achieve universal coverage as well as continuity, confidentiality and regular dissemination of data. Our policy of international solidarity, which we unanimously approved no later than yesterday, has become fully aware of this: access to a legal identity must be a priority of international development, and it must guarantee access to a legal identity through the existence of a reliable civil status and enable people to have access to it. Then, and only then, societies around the world can be truly inclusive and equitable. Such progress will require commitment and commitment at all levels, from governments to local communities. Governments must understand that birth registration is a wise investment, both socially and economically. Communities, for their part, need to understand why and how birth registration is useful to them. [[Applause on the banks of the groups Agir ens, LaREM, Dem, SOC, LT and GDR]] Ladies and gentlemen, birth registration is the gateway to a country's development project and, following our vote yesterday, I welcome France's commitment, which has made it a key element in its policy to combat global inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u15	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u16	Because children are more vulnerable than adults, because they have no right to vote or political or economic influence, because the healthy development of children is crucial for the future of society as a whole, the world adopted an international convention on the rights of the child in 1989. Thus, UNICEF presents what constitutes the foundation of its work through this international convention, the 54 articles of which set out fundamental rights for every child, including the right to a name, nationality and identity. However, in 2019, according to UNICEF, 160 million children under five years of age worldwide were not registered at birth and 237 million, or one third of children in this age group, did not have a birth certificate. The most affected parts of the world are sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia, with 145 million unregistered children under the age of five. In France, this reality also exists: children without identity are said to be children of foreigners in an irregular situation, but also members of the Roma community. The phenomenon would be more prevalent on two ultramarine territories: in Guyana, due to the arrival of populations from Suriname, Brazil and Haiti, and in Mayotte, due to the proximity of the Comoros. As the two rapporteurs of the fact-finding mission, whose conclusions we are discussing this evening, point out, our action in the field of assistance in registering children can only be effective if France appears to be credible on this subject, i.e. if it is itself exemplary in its territory. It is on this point that I would like to concentrate on. France's desire to promote the registration of children in the world is partly hampered by its own inconsistencies in this regard, starting with its failure to comply with the UN Sustainable Development Goal 16.9, which states that by 2030, it is a matter of ensuring a legal identity for all, in particular through birth registration. It is our country's lack of investment in adapting public services to ultramarine territories, particularly Mayotte and Guyana, that is at stake, as the Defender of Rights has repeatedly observed – among other things. For Guyana, the rapporteur's proposal to establish a joint civil registration office between France and Suriname is interesting, but it will have little effect on children born to foreign parents prosecuted by the French authorities. If we really want to act in the interests of children, we must completely review the direction of our migration policy, because we have no chance of regularizing the situation of migrant and migrant children if we continue to hunt them and their parents. The same applies to Mayotte, where human rights associations continue to alert the Government to the shortage of public services and the particularly serious situation of unaccompanied minors. Again, the proposal to strengthen cooperation with neighbouring countries would have little effect on the protection of children without genuine social, educational and administrative care for isolated minors, whose protection should not depend on the risks of migration policy choices. There is an urgent need in Overseas, but also in Hexagon, with regard to these unaccompanied minors, for a complete change of paradigm, or rather for a return to the place. The Government has chosen to assume that these unaccompanied foreign children are adults in the absence of evidence to the contrary, contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which postulates the presumption of a minority. These children should be welcomed and protected in France without their administrative situation being a factor of deprivation. If we want to be in line not only with our international commitments, but also with an international diplomatic strategy that makes France an example to follow, a voice that counts, is heard and is credible, it is imperative that we ourselves implement the means of being an inspiration for other countries by absorbing what exists today in terms of the non-registration of children, especially foreign children, and by changing our doctrine in the management of migration flows, by finally giving priority to the interests of children over the repressive choices that are being implemented today. We are pleased that these discussions shed light on the work we still have to do on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u17	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u18	The issue of children without identity is a substantive subject, although little known, on which there is little data. We thank the Socialist and Related Group for putting it on the agenda and for providing us with a useful insight into this phenomenon following the quality work carried out by our two colleagues Laurence Dumont and Aina Kuric. The situation described in the report of the fact-finding mission is of great concern and the figures mentioned are truly impressive. According to UNICEF data, one out of every four children in the world is not registered at birth and one out of every three children has no birth certificate. This represents 166 million children under five years of age worldwide who are not registered at birth and 237 million who do not have birth certificates. Having an identity is, however, a fundamental right. According to article 7 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, every child must be registered at birth in order to have a legal entity. Above all, it is a right that determines access to all other rights: how to have access to education or health without registration in civil status? How to get married, travel, access employment in the official economy? Being without identity means being condemned to a ghost life on the margins of modern society. The report informs us that children without identity are concentrated mainly in Africa, Asia, especially in the poor countries of West Africa or the Sahel, with the fact that, in some countries, registration is paid for. While this phenomenon is mainly visible in developing countries, it also exists in France, mainly in Mayotte and Guyana, but also in mainland France. As part of my parliamentary activity, I had to deal in my constituency with the situation of a family whose two children did not have a birth certificate. I was able to realize how the lack of identity violated the very right to have rights, since access to education and health was made very difficult by the fact that these children had no legal existence – in a word, they were invisible. I will come back to that on the occasion of the questions. How can we fight this anomaly? The report provides us with interesting ideas. At the international level, in developing countries, official development assistance is a relevant tool for action. The Libertés et Territoires Group would like to welcome the inclusion of a commitment on this subject in the framework of a global partnership annexed to the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, voted unanimously yesterday by our Assembly. According to the bill, France promotes the registration of births and civil status and accompanies the creation of reliable civil states through its bilateral development assistance policy and is committed at the multilateral level. We wonder, however, what concrete forms this commitment will take: how does the Government wish to defend this theme in its bilateral policy in order to achieve effective results? As far as the situation on our soil is concerned, we consider it particularly important to deal with the question of Guyana and Mayotte. We therefore support the recommendation to improve civil status cooperation with the countries bordering Guyana and Mayotte, in particular Suriname and the Comoros, in order to make progress on this issue. In mainland France, the most common cases are those of foreign minors. The priority is to be able to collect information from the countries of origin of these minors which will enable them to authenticate. In this way, our group particularly supports the rapporteur's proposal No. 3, which aims to strengthen bilateral cooperation in order to obtain more responses from the countries of origin. Similarly, we agree with the proposal to give the unaccompanied minors mission of the Ministry of Justice the material and human capacity to provide unaccompanied foreign minors with legal aid so that they can access a declaratory or supplementary judgement necessary to access the identity documents. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens and GDR groups]] Once again, I would like to acknowledge the work carried out by Laurence Dumont and Aina Kuric, the rapporteurs of the fact-finding mission on this issue: thank you, ladies! Like them, our group encourages the Government to make strong commitments on these issues, particularly at the bilateral level: that is where the stakes lie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u19	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u20	The issue of children without identity is fundamental and we thank the Socialist and Related Group for putting this issue on the agenda. This initiative is in line with President Bourlanges' proposal to make the reports live beyond the debates in committee. I therefore share the satisfaction of my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq, who follows this subject carefully, that Mrs Dumont and Mrs Kuric have taken this opportunity to make progress on this very important subject. With nearly 166 million unregistered children worldwide and 237 million children without a birth certificate, this phenomenon is daunting. On the children's side, the lack of legal registration prevents them throughout their lives from gaining access to basic rights and services such as civil rights, health, education, voting, or even access to certain competitions or examinations such as driving licences. On the state side, without credible civil status, it is impossible to plan, to finance reliable public policies, which by extension makes it difficult to set up a cadastre and therefore to impose taxes. The problem often arises in States which have difficulty establishing their sovereignty and authority over their own territory and which have all the difficulties: low GDP, degraded human development index, health and education in difficulty, corruption and even the development of rebellions, etc. It is even a vicious circle: in these situations, the State is unable to put in place coherent public policies, establish a system of correct tax collection, treat, educate all its citizens and establish a civil registration system. It can be seen, moreover, that these countries are very often the ones that have suffered at some point as a result of globalization and the very strong presence of the International Monetary Fund, which dismantled a large number of public services and weakened many States, particularly the African continent, in the 1980s. Since the IMF or the World Bank have weakened States by their sinister structural adjustment plans, it would not be illegitimate for these institutions to be used today to finance initiatives to improve this right, which, as you said, is the first of all rights. But it must not be forgotten that France also suffers from this scourge, particularly in Guyana and Mayotte, where children without identity are left without help following the reintroduction of their parents in the Comoros. The State must solve this unworthy problem of the sixth world economic power as soon as possible. In France and elsewhere, the emergency is there and we must intervene at the source to dry it up. On this point, the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left support all your recommendations, first and foremost, Nos 8 and 9 on the importance of strengthening decentralised cooperation measures to encourage our local communities, which have partnerships with other communities, to insist on these issues, because it is to the closest of the people and the closest to the realities that things can change as quickly as possible. My colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq had stressed the importance of the role of cooperation between local authorities in the debate on the law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities – this is an opportunity to remind us here. Local authorities are indeed the driving force behind the implementation of the sustainable development goals, and the implementation of Goal 16.9, which is to ensure a legal identity for all, including through birth registration by 2030, must be supported to the maximum extent possible. For all these advances to be real, we must go from local to global – and the global, at the level of France, consists in involving our diplomacy to the maximum in order to insist on this subject in all the relevant international institutions, or even to integrate this objective into some of our bilateral treaties. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, Dem, SOC, LT and FI groups]] Finally, France, which has committed itself to feminist diplomacy, cannot ignore the fact that women suffer the most from these problems, that girls are the first victims. This genrée dimension is an additional argument, an argument of weight, in favour of strong and determined action. This will be a tangible proof of France's commitment to feminist diplomacy and will testify to its mobilization on subjects which, if not necessarily well known, are nonetheless fundamental to millions of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u21	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u22	"It is not enough to be born; It is not enough to exist. It is by these words spoken by the rapporteur Dumont in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that I have learned the existence of children without identity, these children that are also called ghost children or invisible children and that, for my part, I will call unborn children. From birth, the child has rights: the right to a name and nationality. This principle, contained in the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1959, complements that contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted eleven years earlier in 1948, which provides that "everyone has the right to recognition everywhere of his or her legal personality". This principle is also in line with Hannah Arendt's theorized concept of the "right to have rights". For yes, being registered in the civil registry conditions our entire social existence. Despite the decades that separate us from these texts, the problem is still rife and the subject too overlooked, which nevertheless deserves our full attention. The information report we are debating this evening therefore contributes to the necessary awareness-raising in the face of a global scourge: it gives a disturbing picture but also offers many solutions. Diagnosis? According to the latest UNICEF report covering 2019, 237 million children worldwide today are unable to prove their legal existence, either because they were not registered at birth or because they did not receive a birth certificate. While the lowest registration rates are for Africa, no territory is spared and all continents are affected. In Asia, for example, China's one-child policy, although relaxed, has led many parents to conceal the existence of their child for fear of sanctions by the Chinese regime. In France, too, some territories are facing an explosion in the number of minors without identity and isolated: this is the case in ultramarine territories, such as Mayotte or Guyana, but also in metropolitan territories, where the phenomenon concerns unaccompanied minors, Roma children or children of parents in an irregular situation. The causes of these ills are diverse and multiple. First of all, we can talk about underdevelopment and the absence of dedicated administrative structures. How can the civil registration services of a country whose material and human resources are already inadequate ensure and enable the registration of children? One can also think of the inadequacy of the legal framework of countries. How could a widowed woman, a single mother or a raped woman declare her child in a country that does not give her the possibility either legally or in practice? Finally, there are cultural obstacles: how can sedentary populations, such as the Peuls or the Tuaregs, access dedicated administrative services, often far away? In addition, some customs and beliefs also require several days, if not several weeks, to give a child a name. As you can see, the causes and consequences of non-registration are numerous, well-identified, and extend throughout life. Access to nationality, social rights, justice, public education, the right to vote, the right to property or the right to health are all problems faced by persons without identity who de facto are more exposed to risks such as illegal adoption, prostitution, trafficking in human beings, embrigation and, unfortunately, death. Indeed, in armed conflict, these children, who do not exist from an administrative point of view, are never recognized as victims. Many international texts promote compulsory birth registration, beginning with article 7 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1989, which provides that "the child shall be registered immediately upon birth and shall have the right to a name, the right to acquire a nationality and, to the extent possible, the right to know and be raised by his or her parents". In 2015, the UN General Assembly made the issue of identityless minors a priority of international development policies. The will to act is shared by all, and there is an urgent need. Here I would like to commend the excellent work of Laurence Dumont and Aina Kuric, whose report is an essential contribution to the awareness of this tragedy and to the need to generalize birth registration. There are many recommendations, and I will not go back to them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] "It is not enough to be born; It is not enough to exist. You will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that these words are powerful and invite us to act. That is why the Group of the European People's Party is fully supporting this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u23	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u24	More than 230 million: this is the number of children without identity in the world, because they were not registered at the time of their birth. We are facing a worrying global phenomenon, because birth registration is still very random throughout the world. These children without identity, without civil status, are deprived of access to care and education. The absence of an official paper deprives them, from birth, of existence. This paper will decide their future, and that is why we need to act. Starting its existence deprived of all rights and social recognition is not tolerable in the twenty-first century. That is what you say in your report, ladies and gentlemen: "legal identity is a prerequisite for all other rights. Article 7 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child confirms that every child must be registered at birth in order to have a legal identity. Far from being a mere declaration, this article is a provision of international law that must become a concrete reality. A few days away from 8 March, International Women's Rights Day, I will repeat recommendation No. 20 of your report: "In France's interventions at events related to gender equality, promote the end of discriminatory laws that prevent women from registering the birth of their child. Women's rights must be defended all over the world, and France, a country of freedom and equality, must promote them. It is also necessary to draw up an inventory of the subject on our territory, because, in France too, there are children without identity. Although it is difficult to estimate their number, their existence is nevertheless a reality, both in metropolis and in the ultramarine territories, notably in Mayotte – due to the arrivals from the Comoros – and in Guyana – due to the arrivals from Suriname, Brazil and Haiti. On this point, the solution must involve better coordination with the countries of origin, but also a strengthening of our borders. In most French-speaking countries in Africa, the birth registration rate is insufficient. That is why Recommendation No. 13, which proposes to "encourage the Organisation internationale de la francophonie (OIF) and the Assemblée parlementaire de la francophonie (APF) to continue their efforts to promote birth registration", seems relevant to me. It is essential to support developing countries in the establishment of a structured civil status, with a particular emphasis on supporting the territories particularly affected by this problem. In this regard, I welcome the work of UNICEF, and I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of shifting France's funding towards actions to promote birth registration. France must continue its commitment to major international organizations: the voice of our country is being listened to in the world, and it is our role to commit ourselves fully to ensuring that children have an identity. It is essential for the future of countries that they have a rigorous and organized administrative organization to register all births and the population. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Government will take your recommendations into account. Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we want him to engage in an unangelist dialogue with neighbouring countries from which a large proportion of the children without identity are present in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u25	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u26	We often hear that parliamentarians do not serve anything, and interparliamentary assemblies do not serve anything, but today's debate would never have taken place without the tenacity of one of us and without an interparliamentary assembly: the International Organization of la Francophonie. Indeed, the executive cannot see everything or feel everything; He can't always grasp all the stakes. I am therefore very proud and thank you for your tenacity, Mrs. Dumont, dear Laurence, and your enthusiasm, Mrs. Kuric, dear Aina. I will not repeat what you have already said very well, and all our colleagues after you. To conclude these introductory statements, I will bring back the debate on two concerns which are at the heart of my role as rapporteur for budgetary appropriations of what is called the diplomacy of influence – many know that I do not like this term too much and that I prefer to speak of the active presence of France in the world. I will therefore refer to education, a subject particularly linked to the one we are dealing with today, and then to the necessary reorganisation of the resources of our action in the world and of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs – this is a subject that I often talk about, Mr Secretary of State, and the subject of this evening's debate offers a good example. Let's start with education. We try to promote the French-language education system in the world, the only one to start at three years old – sometimes even from two years old – and to start education from the child's mother tongue, without imposing French on him. If we want to succeed in this type of promotion, without even going to the French institutes and the French culture, it is not only teachers and school buildings that we need, but a coherence of our actions. I've been calling him for three years. There must be a round-trip between actors who are no longer used to working together. For example, one might imagine that, from this evening, an educational intervention carried out within the framework of the global partnership of education, in the presence of French and French teachers – for example, the training of executives – is systematically accompanied by a project of expertise of France in matters of civil status – I say "systematicly", and not only at random appointments, interests of diplomats better informed than others. That would seem to me to be quite appropriate in the report we are debating. I come to my second point. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we heard from Mr Pascal Lamy, President of the Paris Peace Forum. He told us about "polylateral" relations, rather than multilateral ones. Secretary of State, at the 2019 Conference of Ambassadors and Ambassadors, the President of the Republic spoke of general ambassadors and specialists, conductors and virtuosos. You know that we are a few, including Mr Jean François Mbaye here present, to support this idea: whatever their title – thematic ambassador, special representative, plenipotentiary – these functions so useful to the diplomacy of the 21st century, these trade functions that cannot be performed by generalists, are not consolidated by the organisation of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, which makes them fragile. Those who occupy them are numerous, but always presented as "special" or "exceptional". Yet such subjects demand to be incarnated, made visible, by a political personality, having an administrative component at its disposal, and carrying out a transversal work. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, SOC and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with your proposal No 11 that there should be more staff in the administration to deal with the problem of children without identity. If we were also able to achieve what is called in private – excuse me – a matrix organization, that is to say, that politicians, without necessarily being ministers or high-ranking figures, take up the subject in arm-to-arms, there is little doubt that your proposals Nos. 12 to 23 would soon be implemented. Many of us have said that we need to act today: without such an organization, we will not be able to promote this subject as it deserves to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u27	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u28	It's a special moment. In the existence of a parliamentarian – I have been – there are not so many times when it is felt to really change things, to influence real life. The report of this fact-finding mission will not be a parliamentary report like so many others, another volume in a vast library: it will be a landmark, it will move the lines. It has already made it possible to enrich the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, which we completed yesterday's examination at first reading. I would also like to thank the House for its unanimous support for this text, because it is a vote that obliges us. Jean-Yves Le Drian and I will have at heart that all our debates in committee, then in session, will be followed by effect on the ground – little by little, we are lucid: not everything will be transformed with a magic wand. [[Ms. Amélia Lakrafi applauds]] A collective pride fills us with the reading of the work that you have done, which in turn will guide us, inspire us, lead the Government to amplify its action, the action of France, on the so important subject of children without identity. I do not go back to the figures, since you have quoted them: they are striking. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, such a finding did not give cause for concern. For several months now, from the hearings of your fact-finding mission, which have awakened consciousness, our administration has taken steps. Today, Aurélie Bellon is present alongside Director Philippe Lacoste; This file now has a face, a focal point, which will be valuable for initiating new actions. It is because of this awakening of conscience that, in recent weeks, in committee, in public sittings, we have incorporated a number of amendments into the programming bill, of which I thank you. I am thinking of the one who was due to you, Mrs Laurence Dumont, and who allowed us, in the framework of a global partnership, to draw up in principle the guiding principle of development policies solidarity the need to register births and to have a reliable civil status. I am thinking of your amendment, Mrs Aina Kuric, to take into account access to reliable civil status in our human rights-based approach. I am thinking of those who have contributed to further anchoring the rights of the child in our main objectives, including an amendment to that effect by the rapporteur of this bill, Hervé Berville. Others, such as Perrine Goulet or Florence Provendier, have introduced references to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. All this is now included in the text submitted to the parliamentary shuttle and I hope it will soon be engraved in the marble of the law, which will help to strengthen the integration of children into the priorities of our development policy. I must say that we are working to develop an increasingly integrated approach to civil registration. As you mentioned, since the subject can be considered from different angles, several services are concerned; We need to link them, within our department and at the interdepartmental level. In fact, civil status is at the heart of access to rights: I thank Brigitte Liso for citing Hannah Arendt, who spoke of gold, as always. It is through this broad prism that we can deal with all aspects of the problem. Now let's talk about what we've been evolving since you took over the subject, that is, since 2018. In 2019 and 2020, even before your report was submitted, we – thanks to you, I repeat – became more aware of the problem and we acted. We have done so in a bilateral framework, regularly addressing the issue in our discussions with AFD. Thus, Nigeria has been able to benefit from loans in order to modernise and harmonize its digital identification policy. Like you, we are aware that the question of identity arises from birth and therefore requires a well-defined approach. It is not a question of dealing with it over the water and with electoral or other programmes; It has a different dimension. That is why, in Cameroon, we are proud that AFD is subsidizing the construction of the centre of the National Bureau of Civil Status, which is responsible for coordinating the plan for the rehabilitation of this Cameroonian civil status. Other actions are being carried out in areas where the situation is more complicated: in the Central African Republic, France finances projects to strengthen social cohesion, enabling hundreds or even thousands of civil registrations to be delivered to orphans or to poor children. Mrs Laurence Dumont, you said that in the world, 166 million children under the age of five, or one in four children, are not registered. Such figures encourage us to be modest: hundreds, thousands, they are not yet millions. I will return in a few moments to the need to change the scale. We are also acting in a multilateral framework, particularly in the context of la francophonie. Following Frédéric Petit, I welcome the action of the Assemblée parlementaire de la francophonie. It was in her enclosure that for the first time I was made aware of this problem: Senator Claudine Lepage, who at the time, I believe, was a substitute for you on this issue. If the project progresses at the international level, it is also thanks to the commitment of parliamentarians. It is one of those who bear the mark of Parliament: that is to say what we owe you. Moreover, if we wish to act through the bodies of the Francophonie, there is another reason for this: in 2020, Jean-Yves Le Drian and I allocated an additional EUR 1 million to the OIF, hoping that part of this exceptional contribution will be allocated to actions in favour of children without identity. This enabled us to support a pilot project in Niger. The OIF had published in 2014 in connection with the institutional network and the NGOs of la francophonie, a practical guide for the consolidation of civil status, electoral lists and the protection of personal data. While the Francophonie is a particularly suitable framework for multilateral action, it is not the only one. You have highlighted the involvement of UNICEF. That is why France is contributing, for example, to the funding of the UNICEF office in Liberia – where we support the establishment of two birth registration centres within the health services in Monrovia, which will make it possible to issue 5,000 birth certificates. The issue of civil status is, moreover, systematically included, for obvious reasons, in all of our development projects relating to maternity. As far as UNICEF is concerned, we are also mobilizing the famous FSPI, which is in line with proposal 6 of your report – I have read them all carefully. In 2021, we have planned to spend €2 million on two projects with UNICEF, one on birth registration in West Africa and the other on the development of a modern civil status in the Union of the Comoros. This support for UNICEF is fully in line with the United Nations legal identity perspective: UNICEF is one of the leaders of this initiative, which combines access to rights and development. In addition, the Department plans to contribute this year to the funding of the international working group on this issue. Naturally, our multilateral development efforts also go largely through the European Union and its various instruments, such as the European Union's emergency trust fund for stability and the fight against the root causes of irregular migration and the phenomenon of internally displaced persons in Africa. Here again, our debates have brought things forward: by hearing you, we have decided to work with another attentive State on this issue, Belgium, to raise awareness among our European counterparts. We will write a non-paper; This format often makes it possible to advance causes at European interdepartmental meetings on development. Our colleagues, who are responsible for dossiers and projects, do not necessarily have in mind the one we are interested in: France's contribution, combined with one or more other states, will have a positive effect and may encourage other countries to do more. Moreover, the French commitment to civil status implies – I heard you – that we improve our practices at the inter-ministerial level. We will work with the Ministry of the Interior to resolve the situations you mentioned in Guyana, Mayotte, and neighbouring territories. The Quai d'Orsay will increasingly mobilize its diplomacy to advocate this cause. In 2019, on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the President of the Republic demonstrated his commitment. That is why we will gladly also implement your proposal No. 21 to include this issue in universal periodic reviews – UPRs. You know that France joined the Human Rights Council a few weeks ago. We will raise awareness among our diplomats to review the status of birth registration with a view to including, if necessary, birth registration recommendations on the occasion of UPRs. We would therefore like to join you on this subject as well. Moreover, France naturally advocates for women's rights in the framework of its feminist diplomacy. She will also advocate in all relevant fora against discrimination that prevents women from registering the birth of their child. But advocacy is not enough. Awareness-raising and communication, which you both mentioned, are essential and France is also active on this front. We have participated in the high-level dialogue on civil registration in Africa, and we support the African Union's awareness-raising campaign on birth registration in Africa in partnership with UNICEF. In addition, within the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, we decided during this debate – that is, the usefulness of this kind of appointment – to draw up a real roadmap for France's action to understand this phenomenon. So far, we have a development and human rights strategy – dating back to 2018 if my memory is good – with a passage on the issue of children without identity. This is a small paragraph which, of course, commits us to strengthening actions with NGOs, but today we want to go further. We will therefore strive to have a real roadmap. We referred to it at the moment: with Philippe Lacoste and Aurélie Bellon, we have already reached very clear guidelines following the recommendations you have made. We will translate them into this roadmap, which will have the advantage, by formalizing a number of objectives, of putting everyone under stress. Indeed, if the issue of human resources arises, I believe in fact that it is less a matter of increasing the number of people working on the subject than of making everyone feel more involved within the department, in central services as well as in deconcentrated services, as well as in the various departments concerned. In this regard, the roadmap will be valuable: its presentation, in due course, will continue to raise awareness among all actors, both internally and externally. So I'll set you this appointment, which will be the next step for us. I know that of course you will continue to be active and active in the various parliamentary fora dealing with the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In any event, I wanted to tell you that we had the faith and energy in our body to deepen and amplify our actions, in order to be at the ambitious meeting that you have set for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u29	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. We begin with the Socialist and related group. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u30	Thirty years after the birth of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, many millions of children remain totally unseen and their rights are completely denied. While civil registration may seem to us a mere formality, it is not always a priority on a global scale. According to the World Bank, more than a billion people today cannot prove their identity due to lack of documents. These are all lives that do not exist for the administration of their country or for our societies. A UN-wide Working Group on Legal Identity has been set up to assist UN member countries through concrete actions. Thirteen countries have been identified and a fund, which can be abounded by the member countries of the United Nations, has been established to finance these actions. Several countries, including Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada, have already expressed interest; France is not yet one of them. By choosing the approach of legal identity, universal and based on the individual's life cycle, this working group focuses on the registration of both children and adults. It is very promising to coordinate the international resources allocated to birth registration, while the lack of coordination is one of the main obstacles to the effectiveness of the aids and arrangements introduced. Yesterday, our assembly unanimously passed a bill to combat global inequalities. The Government had expressed support for an amendment to strengthen France's support for the United Nations Agenda Working Group on Legal Identity. However, three substantive amendments were rejected. Let us take the word Robert Badinter, fiercely committed to this subject, to break the silence surrounding the condition of ghost children, to restore their dignity, to put an end to their exclusion from our societies. Mr Secretary of State, is the Government ready to commit itself to supporting and financing this specific working group? Like Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada, will France show interest in this group and in this fund?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u31	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u32	Thank you, Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, and confirm that France is fully committed to supporting the working group on the agenda on the legal identity of the United Nations. If we face a difficulty today – the dedicated trust fund has not yet been created, for lack of sufficient abundance – this does not prevent us from acting in support of the working group and the actions it recommends. Our actions with UNICEF in Liberia, which I mentioned at the moment, thus come within this framework and, in 2021, still to contribute to the objectives of this working group, we will contribute up to 40000 euros to a programme of the High Commission for Refugees in favour of access to identity for stateless persons. A number of FSPIs will also be applicable in 2021 within the framework of the UN's Agenda Working Group on Legal Identity. I repeat: we support this group and, even if the fiduciary tool is not yet finalized, you can count on our moral and financial commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u33	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u34	It is estimated that several hundred million children today, around the world, do not have an identity because they were not registered with the civil registry services at birth. They therefore have no legal existence as citizens. According to the Pharos Observatory – a platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts – French-speaking Africa alone has about 90 million children without identity who cannot enjoy the status of a citizen. Some of the consequences of this situation are known, such as the inability to benefit from the protection of basic public services, which leads to vulnerability to multiple predations such as trafficking in human beings, delinquency and recruitment into armed groups. These phenomena have been well described by the two rapporteurs. We also know some of the causes of this situation, such as the failure of a sometimes incomplete or discriminatory legislative framework, the poor management of the civil registry, the lack of registration due to certain beliefs or the lack of digital tools. However, there is no fatality in this regard. As we know, Africa has a tremendous dynamic in digitalization. It responds to the needs of people to transform their daily lives and to take part in strong global growth. Five years ago, fintechs were almost non-existent in Africa, whereas today they are almost at the same level as in Europe. Large French groups such as Orange are strongly involved. Many French people in my constituency – whom you know well, Mr. Secretary of State – in the Maghreb and West Africa are great in this area. I shall therefore make a proposal which would allow two strikes to be made with one stone. Why not imagine, for example, that our companies and entrepreneurs established abroad can accompany the necessary digitisation of the civil status of certain African countries, with a view to greater stability? What do you think, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u35	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u36	I recognize here, Mr. Member, your precise knowledge of the French companies present abroad, particularly in your constituency, the ninth electoral district of the French people established outside France. Several companies, including French companies such as Idemia and Thales, are implementing solutions dedicated to digital identity. This is the case in Benin, where part of the population was able to benefit from identity cards. These solutions are not necessarily specific to children: the registration of parents also makes it possible to link their marital status with children. There is, of course, room for companies, particularly French companies, in this project. In any event, it seems to me important that we continue to bring the subject of children without identity and that we look at how, at the Montpellier summit, we can continue to raise awareness. It will indeed be a strong time in the relationship between France and the African continent, and therefore a good time to continue the fight and keep on burning the little flame that you are carrying this evening, all of you in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u38	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u39	My inquiry, Mr Secretary of State, deals with one point in the report that we have not mentioned so far: the fate of the children of the Roma community who are part of, in France and Europe, invisibility children who do not benefit from civil registration. I would like to know what means are being used today in France and what cooperation could be carried out at European level to solve this problem. The Roma population has 10 to 12 million people in Europe, where it is the largest minority. In Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Hungary and the Balkans, Roma account for up to 10% of the population. Among them, those who have adopted a sedentary lifestyle experience strong discrimination in terms of trade, housing, culture or the exercise of their language. This is true both in these European countries and in France, where the policy of forced evictions from their places of life endangers fundamental rights, especially those of children, such as schooling. Today many associations, such as the School for All collective, are fighting for the enrolment of these children in school, but regret the lack of support and goodwill at all levels, including, in some cases, by municipalities. We are given an opportunity to raise this problem at the French and European level, and I would like to hear from you, Mr Secretary of State, on the means devoted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u40	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u41	Indeed, as the report quite clearly points out, France is not free from all reproach and must itself remedy certain situations, both in its overseas territories and in metropolitan France. The situation of the Roma community must be able to improve; You can count on my determination and my energy to act in this direction within an inter-ministerial framework, because evolving on an issue of a European or even international nature involves mobilising the various administrations concerned. On this point, we are a little in a blind spot of government action, as you said. We will therefore be working on this with the Ministry of the Interior. At European level, I believe that it is possible to raise awareness of this issue. We will continue to work, drafting a non-paper that we will submit to the ministers responsible for international cooperation and development. Small streams making large rivers, we can hope to raise additional grants or loans and, more generally, a stronger commitment. When European countries plead together for a cause, they make themselves heard better in multilateral fora. You can be assured, honourable Member, that in this area France will become more involved at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u42	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u43	The recommendations made by the rapporteurs Laurence Dumont and Aina Kuric call on the Government to strengthen its diplomatic advocacy to promote birth registration in the countries most affected, to which I fully subscribe. However, my question will deal with one particular case, namely children without identity in France and the difficulties they encounter in accessing identity documents from another country. In March 2015, I was seized by a family in my riding that I accompanied until his file was resolved in March 2020. Two people married in France on 23 February 2011, but, having been unable to produce the birth certificates of their two children, they could not have them entered on the family booklet. These parents have been regularly reinvigorated by the primary health insurance fund to regularize their children's health insurance coverage. In addition, even once they had attended school, they had many difficulties in passing their exams and participating in school and extracurricular activities requiring identification. After five years of proceedings and appeals to the consulates, the prefecture of the Hautes-Pyrénées and the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA) in an attempt to obtain regularization of the situation of these children, the possible solution was to file with the tribunal de grande instance an application to obtain a declaratory judgment of birth. This approach, which resulted in the understanding of the judiciary, enabled the two children to be registered on the family booklet and to issue identity documents to each of them. As I said earlier, France must set an example on its own soil. Mr Secretary of State, do you not think that in order to improve and speed up access to the rights of these children, one could simplify access to the judicial procedure I mentioned, as well as information on the steps to be taken to facilitate the journey of the families and minors concerned? If so, can you act in this direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u44	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u45	Madam Member, thank you for bringing this case to my attention. If you wish, we can look at it together to learn from it. In order to improve and, above all, simplify legal procedures which, due to their length and complexity, are similar to a true combatant's journey, some steps are already in place, notably through child welfare services. I think that they should be systematized in order to simplify matters for the families concerned. This action does not necessarily fall within the remit of my department, and I am committed to bringing this issue to the interdepartmental level, in order to encourage other departments to intervene. In this way we can hope that in the future the families who are in the situation you have mentioned will not face the same difficulties that you have accompanied. Thanks to the work we are going to do together, you will be able to consider that you have helped to improve the situation of many people, which, I believe, is part of the satisfaction of exercising a parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u46	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u47	I would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs on the high quality of their report, which highlights a very worrying problem, to the extent that it has become one of the priorities of our official development assistance, as evidenced by the draft law on programming for solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities that we adopted yesterday. One of the main reasons for non-reporting remains discrimination between women and men, which still prevents many mothers around the world from declaring their children. This may be due to the fact that they live in rural areas, that they belong to certain ethnic minorities or that they are sometimes difficult or even prohibited from making such a declaration, when only the father has the right to do so. Therefore, if the child is absent – which may be the case if the birth occurred as a result of rape, for example – or if he refuses to recognize the child, registration of the birth becomes impossible. Finally, there are societies that always give preference to male children: there are more registered boys than girls, because the former are considered to be the financial pillars of the whole family. The combination of these gender-related factors is a powerful barrier to the birth registration of children, especially girls. As the report points out, this phenomenon is of great concern because, without a census of children, there can be no sustainable health policy in the long term, no control of epidemics, no vaccination, no access to education and no equality between women and men. It is time to reverse this trend, although some efforts have already been made. In the framework of the feminist diplomacy that you mentioned, Secretary of State, what are the concrete actions that will make it possible to change the situation? Are these technical solutions such as free civil registration or the modernization and computerization of civil registration centres, or should we instead seek to act at the socio-cultural level, strengthening partnerships with specialized NGOs and raising awareness among the populations particularly concerned?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u48	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u49	The registration of civil status, which allows access to an identity, is in a way a key legal pillar, on which all other rights arising from the possession of an identity depend. In this sense, civil registration is a very important lever for equality between women and men and an essential means of enabling women to make their voices heard. That is also why we are seeking to promote feminist diplomacy, of which I will give some examples. In June 2020, France co-sponsored UN Human Rights Council Resolution 43/5 on birth registration, which calls on states to remove any barriers that create or impede discrimination in access to birth registration. More concretely, we are funding and promoting such projects, as we are doing in Liberia, for example, in partnership with UNICEF, to ensure interoperability of health and maternity services to raise awareness among parents of the importance of registering their children. We are therefore fighting in principle, through the adoption of resolutions in multilateral fora and on the ground, where these principles can be applied in a practical way. We intend to continue to do so on both fronts in order to strengthen the fundamental right of civil registration, which has many other rights, especially for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u50	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u51	I thank the Socialist and Related Group for allowing the issue of children without identity to be placed on the agenda of our Assembly. This values the work done by our colleagues, Aina Kuric and Laurence Dumont, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also, and above all, it highlights these so-called "phantom children" whose very existence is rendered inviolable because of the deficiencies in civil status and in particular in the registration of births. This is the case for Rohingya children who fled Myanmar to take refuge in Bangladesh. At the beginning of my term of office, I myself visited the country, where I was able to see the scale of the disaster: these displaced children will not be able to return to Myanmar because, having no identity, they are stateless – as has been said on several occasions, identity is the first of the rights, the one that conditions all the others. The fate of these children is a matter of great concern and I hope that we will have the opportunity to refer to them in other debates. Mr Secretary of State, I know that you are sensitive to the fight being waged by our two fellow rapporteurs with the support of the running Republic Group and all Members. I also know that, since 2019, a new portfolio of justice and civil registration issues has been entrusted to the mission of democratic governance within the Globalisation Directorate-General – DGM – which I welcome. Can you tell us what is the assessment of the creation of this portfolio and the mapping and coordination work carried out at the Quai d'Orsay by the editor responsible for monitoring this problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u52	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u53	The work done since September 2019 by Ms.Aurélie Bellon, the editor who has been entrusted with the portfolio you are referring to, is very important. On this focal point of the Ministry's work on the civil status of children, it has led to the conclusion of new partnerships that will enable more effective action. In this area, things are just beginning. I have made commitments to you this evening and, thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteurs, we have a very substantial material which will enable us to draw up a roadmap. We want to work on the development of a non-paper and intend to use all the forums, including those that France will organise in the coming months, to bring this topic to bear. It is also important that our ambassadors, as well as the department's resource directorates, feel more and more concerned, and I believe that this evening's debate will make an important contribution to this. I propose that we make an appointment in a few months' time so that, creating a sort of right in the wake of this debate, we can make an initial assessment which I hope will be as extensive as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u54	We come to the questions of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u55	Having a legal identity is essential for gaining access to fundamental rights such as the right to vote, the right to education or the right to health. Children without today's identity will tomorrow be abandoned adults in difficulty. In France, there are still children without identity, whether in Guyana, Mayotte, or even in metropolitan France when it comes to children of foreigners illegally entering the territory or members of the Roma community. In Mayotte, where nearly one in every two inhabitants is of foreign nationality – most often Comorian or Malagasy – and where 30,000 people are reported to be in an irregular situation, the census of children without identity is not carried out in satisfactory conditions. It is only known that some children were born to families in an irregular situation – 20 per cent of children born in Mayotte are born to mothers in an irregular situation – and that they arrived alone in the territory or that their parents were returned to their country of origin, leaving them there to ensure a better future for them. Of the only unaccompanied minors within the meaning of OFPRA, 56% are said to be foreigners to Mayotte, which represents about 3000 children. This is therefore an important problem, the scope of which should be precisely measured. An agreement is being negotiated between France and the Union of Comoros to reunite families, advise them and inform them of the need to be in good standing with regard to civil status. However, according to the report of the fact-finding mission on children without identity of 23 September 2020, it is to be feared, in the light of diplomatic tensions with the Union of the Comoros, that this agreement will not succeed. If that is the case, Mr Secretary of State, how do you intend to improve the situation of these children in the territory of Mahorais and to establish bilateral agreements with the Union of Comoros and the Republic of Madagascar on the specific issue of birth registration?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u56	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u57	The two specific cases that you are referring to, Madam Commissioner, concern Guyana and Mayotte, but they are also indicative of the dynamics between these territories and the neighbouring countries. In Guyana, a civil registry office was established in 2020, within the maternity ward of the West Guyana Hospital. We are also discussing this issue with Suriname at bilateral meetings, the last of which took place last December. A few days ago, in February, we proposed that a Surinamese Civil Registry Officer be seconded to the Guyanese Civil Registry Office as part of a memorandum of understanding. We need people who can put an end to the situations you describe, knowing that many of the people concerned are from Suriname. With regard to Mayotte, I can tell you that Jean-Yves Le Drian and your servant are following this file carefully. On February 8, Jean-Yves Le Drian had the opportunity to meet again with his Comorian counterpart about the situation of these young people. The subject will return to the agenda of the next meetings of the high-level Franco-Comorian committee, an important forum where we discuss, among other things, an increase in our development aid. The aim is to combat certain inequalities and also to modernise the civil registration system of the Comoros using the FSPI, in accordance with the sixth recommendation of the rapporteurs. In these two territories, many actions are taking place. I hope that they will bear fruit and reverse the momentum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u58	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-03-O1187.u59	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Debate on France's policies in the Sahel; Questions on the role of banks and insurance in the crisis of covid-19. The meeting is adjourned.
