ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022 (No 4523, 4568, 4572).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u3	So here we are for an important moment of the year, since you are going to examine and, I hope, vote the budget for social security for the year 2022. This is the last five-year social security funding bill – PLFSS – but not the least, because if we look at the considerable progress we have made, we will not relax our efforts now, quite the contrary. There are still beautiful projects and conquests ahead of us. You know the situation of social accounts: that is little to say that it has already been better. Two years ago, we were close to such a long-awaited and hoped-for balance. But the global pandemic went through this and demanded a very ambitious public action and a public intervention at levels never equaled, because, yes, the social state responded present to offer the best protection to all French people, to caregivers as well as to cared for, to workers as well as pensioners, to businesses as well as to employees, to parents as well as to children, to healthy people as well as to the sick. At the beginning of the quinquennium, we wanted to build the foundations of the 21st century welfare state. This political project has come up against the strength of circumstances and a historic shock. Today more than ever, our systems of solidarity and health are looked at for what they are: the pillars of a great nation in which hospitals welcome everyone, whatever their first name, whatever their status, whatever their income. Our social protection is not just a large insurance machine, it is not just an aggregate of sophisticated paintings and technical measures accessible to a small circle of specialists. Our social protection is a response to the challenges of today and tomorrow, which are not the responsibility of those who wave the television sets and who watch little of the real life of the French, but of those who sometimes manifest themselves in urgency, often in distress and always in the bites of everyday life. We won't talk about anything else in the coming days and weeks, and that's so much better. While the health crisis generated 33 billion euros of exceptional expenditure in 2020 and 2021 and historical deficits, the situation is now more favourable. The forecast deficit would be only, with all the quotes that are required of course, of EUR 22 billion in 2022, an improvement of EUR 14 billion. Let us be clear, this is not the end of the crisis. A few hours ago, I was here, when parliamentarians voted on the text containing various provisions of health vigilance extending the possibility of implementing measures to combat the circulation of the virus until next summer. We are not at the end of the crisis, so we must remain very vigilant. If economic consequences can also be felt for a very long time, the dynamic is that of an early exit from the crisis and this text must help us to project ourselves into the post-crisis phase. The PLFSS draws lessons from the period we face, which has demonstrated the central role not only of the hospital, but more broadly of social security, I have just referred to it. The answer is no less rights or more rights but, in a way and forgive me this barbarism, "better rights". On the other hand, and this will not have escaped anyone – at least, I hope – we have committed a massive reinvestment in our health care system in the framework of the Secur de la santé with EUR 12.5 billion in 2020: EUR 10 billion to upgrade the careers of those who care and EUR 2.5 billion for physical investment. Contrary to what I sometimes hear and I still want to be very clear, no savings will be made on the back of the public hospital. On the other hand, we want to take advantage of what worked during the crisis and perpetuate innovations that seemed too bold yesterday but are now well established in the lives of French and health professionals. I am thinking, for example, of digital health with teleconsultation and telecare, since we have passed almost overnight from 10,000 teleconsultations a week to more than 1 million during the crisis. I hope that this practice will continue and that it will, of course, provide an answer – it is not the only one – to the thorny, complex and ancient problem of medical deserts. Indeed, it is a relevant answer: between a teleconsultation and the absence of consultation, my choice is made. I am also thinking of the link between compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance. The experiment with telecare at the height of the crisis has also shown the effectiveness of a 100% management, decisive for the rapid and massive success of this solution. The High Council for the Future of Health Insurance (HCAAM) was given the task of thinking about potential developments in this context, and in order to reflect on a better way to exercise our rights. The report by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES), published last September on health accounts, tells us that France is the second country in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) where the costs of managing the health system are the highest, behind the United States, where, as you know, the system is almost entirely privatized. For example, 40 per cent of the management costs come from complementary organizations, while 12 per cent of the costs of health care are incurred. Hence the reflection that has been opened; But reflection does not make proposals. As I said in the preamble, although this PLFSS is the last of the quinquennium, it contains major ambitions, such as providing concrete answers to our fellow citizens who are losing their autonomy, because we must face up to the reality of old age and take this unprecedented demographic upheaval with us. As we know, French society is aging, it is not a vague or abstract projection, it is already here and now. In all the families of France and Navarre, it is a matter of concern because a parent or grandparent who loses his autonomy is a whole organization to think about or rethink. As a result, the FSLP includes several measures to enhance the readability and quality of home supply, because being able to age at home is one of the first aspirations of our seniors. I have heard some here doubt the commitment of the Government and the majority on the issue of autonomy. With this PLFSS, we demonstrate, once again, that this is not the case. Since the creation of the fifth branch voted in the summer of 2020, the new commitments for autonomy amount to 3.5 billion euros: 2.8 billion for salary increases, 200 million for home services, 70 million for the medicalisation and modernisation of EHPADs and 450 million for investment in EHPADs. In less than two years, despite the crisis of the Covid-19, we will have succeeded in creating a real fifth branch, which was promised in 2008 in this House by one of my predecessors. Brigitte Bourguignon and I did it. We do not avoid the issue of access to care that remains our priority and the red thread of my action. Access to care also means access to treatment. However, if this involves better financing of innovation and security of supply, it is also necessary to empower laboratories, by continuing to lower prices on the most amortised products in order to avoid the phenomena of rent, or by being more demanding on stock failures. The PLFSS plans to spend 300 million to facilitate access throughout the country to expensive molecules, so that it is not conditioned to the financial health of the hospital that delivers them, while continuing to integrate savings on health products. The discussions will provide an opportunity to go even further in many areas and on topics whose crisis has proved that they are sometimes unsuspecting in scope, as is the case with mental health that we have never mentioned so much. I am delighted that she has been the poor parent of health policy for too long. Whether it is direct and reimbursed access to psychologists or postnatal maintenance to prevent postpartum depression, during the debate, the Government will have the opportunity to present you with concrete answers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our discussions will also allow us, at your initiative, to address as many concrete subjects and vectors of transformations, such as the regulation of health centres to combat the misguided practices of some and to better recognize the positive action of the majority of them. In this respect, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs for her contributions to the examination of the text in committee. I am also thinking of experimenting with direct access to massage therapists and speech therapists in order to consider more fruitful cooperation between professionals in the service of patients. We'll have all these debates. In a country which sometimes doubts its strength and denigrates itself, we recall that having a certain idea of France means having, yesterday, today and tomorrow, a certain idea of social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u5	So we meet today to begin the examination of the PLFSS for 2022. This one being the last of the quinquennium, I would have liked him to be the one to return to balance. I say this quite frankly, since, as the deputy minister responsible for public accounts, I cannot, of course, satisfy myself with the balances that we will propose to vote on, even if they are intended to improve during the parliamentary shuttle, thanks to the upward revision of macroeconomic assumptions. The figures we submit to you, the fruit of the commitment of social security against the covid-19 and to accompany the French, obviously contrast strongly with the ambitions we had before the health crisis, when the return to the balance of social security was close and when the amortization of the social debt was intended to stop in 2024. Thus, according to the latest projections available, the social security deficit and the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV) is expected to reach €34.6 billion in 2021 and then €21.6 billion in 2022, but it will still exceed €13 billion in 2025. It should be noted that the deficit for 2021 is lower than that for 2020, which stood at almost 39 billion. It is also lower than that envisaged in the various budgetary debates, particularly in the public finance policy debate on the stability programme 2021-2027, since the strength of the economic recovery leads to an increase in revenue of 6%. Nevertheless, the continuing health crisis leads to an increase in expenditure of 2.5 billion. Thus, compared to the beginning of 2021, the deficit forecast has already improved by 3.9 billion. While the sustainable deterioration of social accounts must challenge us, it must also not make us forget the improvement of accounts that occurred before the health crisis. For example, the social security and FSV deficit had reached a historically low level of 1 billion in 2018, rising to 1.9 billion in 2019. These figures show that the majority have nothing to prove about serious budgetary matters. They also give us a valuable lesson for the future: it is because the accounts were in order that the social security system was able to protect the French as quickly, as well as in the period we know. All French people are aware of the enormous effort that the health system has made and continues to make to combat the health crisis, to protect them on a daily basis and to preserve their employment. First of all, it was of course that of the caregivers that I still want to greet. It is also a huge financial effort that I will recall in a few figures: 135 million screening tests carried out, more than any other country in Europe, and an estimate of the cost of the vaccination campaign at 4.7 billion euros – the best investment that is not only for the health of our citizens, but also, of course, for the economy and for France. Clearly, the health crisis has made more concrete than ever the reason for the existence of social security: to protect the French. Never take this mission as acquired, constantly seeking to better protect our fellow citizens, are part of the goals that we set ourselves during this quinquennium. I will not go back to each of the social advances made under this one: they are too numerous and, moreover, you know them. The main ones are the deployment of 100% health – a reform that has changed the daily lives of millions of our citizens – and the creation of the fifth branch of social security, whose construction will bring, in this PLFSS, new advances in the prevention and fight against the loss of autonomy, which my colleague, Deputy Minister Brigitte Bourguignon, will present to you in more detail. I also do not go back to Ségur de la santé, an unprecedented investment in health care providers and institutions, which has since been extended to medical and social institutions. The various PLFSSs presented during this quinquennium have brought to light another red thread of the action carried out under this one: that of revalorisation of work and our commitment to jobs and growth. Since 2017, we have transformed the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) into a long-term relief of social security contributions for more than €23 billion. We have also abolished the wage contributions for unemployment insurance and health insurance, an additional EUR 6 billion in support of the assets. We have also removed social contributions on overtime, which are also defied. Finally, we have extended the general reliefs to all social contributions, so that there are no more contributions or employers' contributions at the level of the SMIC. This policy in favour of growth, employment and purchasing power has been a constant of our action – of your action, you members of the majority. We pursued it in another form by deploying massive support schemes for companies and employees who were partially active during the health crisis, in record time. We have extended it by deploying France Recovery, an unprecedented plan to boost activity of EUR 100 billion, which will be used in particular to strengthen investment in our health system. Finally, we intend to amplify this policy for employment, work and development thanks to the investment plan presented by the President of the Republic on 12 October, which is preparing France for 2030. I assume this growth policy all the more easily because I am convinced that it is first and foremost through the growth policy that we will restore our public finances, including our social finances. I am all the more convinced that it is bearing fruit. We have thus been led to raise our growth forecasts for 2021, from 6% to 6.25%, and we will propose improved balances over the entire multi-year social security trajectory during the parliamentary shuttle. To those who would have liked the PLFSS for 2022 to contain brutal measures to restore accounts, we reply that this is not the policy we have chosen and that, unlike the post-crisis period in 2009 and 2010, we want to favour growth. The upward revision of the social revenue forecasts generated by the increase in wage bill, combined with the dynamism of the recovery, is a good reason. The hiring figures of more than one month in the third quarter of 2021, published this morning, reinforce this strategy: employment declarations increased again by 11.4%, after an increase of 16.6% in the second quarter. They concern both CSDs of more than one month, up 12.8%, and CDIs, up by almost 10%. Our policy to support growth also allows us to propose a trajectory of the national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) of 3.8% outside the crisis, not to mention the €5 billion in provisions to deal with the effects of the health crisis, which is part of the PLFSS. This objective goes beyond the multi-year commitments made by the President of the Republic and the Government: 2.6 per cent correspond to the so-called basic ONDAM, while 1.2 per cent is dedicated to financing the progressive implementation of new actions and new objects, resulting from the agreements of the Segur of Health. The PLFSS does not contain any brutal savings measures: for the first time, we do not seek any savings from hospitals and we have even planned to return to them the savings achieved in the event of a voluntary reorganization. This text is nevertheless a transformation PLFSS, which is in line with those that have been presented to you since 2017. I want proof that it marks a new stage in the construction, structuring, of the unification of social recovery. This is indeed a source of significant efficiency gains, as well as greater reliability of contributions collected and registered social rights. It is also a major lever for simplification for businesses, which will eventually have only one interlocutor for social contributions. You had adopted an ambitious path of unification in the framework of the PLFSS for 2020. Some of the milestones have been or will have to be set up, in order to take into account the impact of the health crisis and to secure transfers. The transfer of contributions collected by AGIRC-ARRCO will be initiated in 2022 by a pilot and implemented in 2023. If we are pragmatic, we are nevertheless ambitious: the PLFSS proposes to act on the transfer of the contributions collected by the Interprofessional Pension and Old Age Insurance Fund of the liberal professions (CIPAV) after initial technical work, of which I welcome the quality. I will quickly mention two other transformation measures foreseen by the PLFSS. We propose that you generalize the real-time payment of tax and social assistance from the personal service sector, starting with the personal assistance tax credit. As of January 1, 2022, individual employers who use the Cesu + – universal service + employment cheque – will be eligible for an advance of their real-time tax credit. In April 2022, this generalization will be extended to clients of intermediated services: agents, providers and platforms. From 2023 onwards, the beneficiaries of the Personalized Autonomy Allowance (APA) or Disability Compensation Benefit (PCH) will enter into the scheme once we have entered into partnership agreements with each departmental council. In 2024, this generalization will be extended to childcare after the necessary technical work on the Pajemploi scheme. This reform will simplify the lives of millions of our citizens, who must now advance the amount of their tax credit, and will help to accompany the residential shift and the development of the personal services sector, as well as the fight against illegal work. It will simplify the development of declared work and the opening of the social rights associated with the employees concerned. Finally, this text reflects part of the social transformation of the plan announced by the President of the Republic in favour of self-employed workers. They will also help neutralize the effects of the crisis, facilitate the adjustment of social security contributions by the self-employed according to the income received, and modernise the status of working spouse. You see, we are moving forward and making the choice to reform until the last day. The work will have to be continued, particularly with regard to the restoration of social accounts. It is not possible to postpone indefinitely the return to balance, otherwise it is our children who will have to bear the burden of the current deficits. In this respect, I will insist on a few points. First, a vision and overall management of public finances and modernised governance of social finances is needed. This is the ambition of the proposal for an organic law on social security financing laws tabled by the rapporteur-general Thomas Mesnier and adopted on 19 July. Its adoption will give us welcome tools to improve the control of social accounts. We also need a unified management of social finances, which means, in view of the overall deficit, that we do not consider the possible isolated surpluses as room for manoeuvre, but rather to strengthen inter-branch solidarity. We will also have to pursue structural reforms, such as pension reform,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u6	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u7	... when the conditions are met, as the Prime Minister has indicated. Finally, after necessarily exceptional exercises, we will have to renew with a renewed management of health insurance expenditure, which is not incompatible with our public health objectives, but guarantees a fairer use of French contributions to our social system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Therefore, this PLFSS does not balance all subjects. However, it concludes a quinquennium of transformation of our social protection system and of advances in favour of better protection of the French. In these difficult times, social security has proved its modernity. We must collectively ensure that it continues to fulfil its mission of protecting the French tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u8	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u9	Today we are starting the public examination of the last PLFSS of the legislature, which includes strong and tangible measures for the support of the elderly or persons with disabilities. Last year, at the same time, we were building together the foundations of a national policy on the loss of autonomy, creating and financing the fifth branch of social security. With this text, we are completing an essential stage in the reform of old age and autonomy by radically transforming the offer to accompany the loss of autonomy. This ambitious and systemic reform includes €1.3 billion of new annual measures by 2025. It is also a responsible reform, because it is entirely financed by the resources already allocated by Parliament to the autonomous branch. This reform is that of respecting the desire of our fellow citizens to age at home as long as possible, including if a loss of autonomy occurs. It is currently not respected and has been less and less respected in recent years: in 2010, 61% of ABS recipients lived at home, compared to only 59% last year. Indeed, despite the many professions of faith and the laws adopted by this assembly, successive governments have failed to translate this priority into the daily lives of our elderly fellow citizens and their caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u11	The reform that I carry, together with Olivier Véran, on behalf of the Government, which appears in this PLFSS, will finally give him the means to become a reality for the French and to enter the daily lives of families. We do this, first of all, by investing in the professions of autonomy, for which I have resolutely committed myself, from the moment I was appointed, alongside Olivier Véran, for I have long known these invisible professions, which are so poorly valued. We did not wait for the release of a political film...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u13	... to meet the fate of these women, who love their profession despite everything, and deserve better than caricatures and electoral back-thinks. Investing in trades is first and foremost better to pay for them. The increases in remuneration resulting from the Sécur de la Santé agreements, extended to other types of professionals, represent from 160 euros to 183 euros per month for all, and recasts of grids. They also correspond to the approval of amendment 43 of the collective agreement of the home help branch, resulting in increases ranging from 13% to 15% for the 210000 home helpers, for amounts up to 300 euros gross per month, for those with the most seniority. Over the period from 2020 to 2022, more than €2.8 billion will be spent on the financing of salary adjustments for the professions of autonomy, which has not yet been done by any government. Our mobilisation for these professions also includes the development of training, skills acquired, bridges between the health and medical-social professions, as well as the financing of actions on the quality of life at work of professionals. Our commitment to self-employment also translates into greater readability and improved quality of home-based service delivery, as well as greater equity in funding structures across jurisdictions. The Government will thus introduce and finance a national tariff of 22 euros per hour of intervention, corresponding to a minimum level of public funding for all home-help services, which represents an investment of 240 million euros for the State, starting in 2022. This floor tariff is in line with the promise of a decompartmentalisation of the disability and age sectors, thanks to the autonomy branch, which will accompany the departments in the implementation of this floor tariff, taking on board the financial effort that will be made for them by the change to 22 euros per hour for the APA and for the PCH. On the other hand, the current funding of home care services does not meet the growing needs of the elderly, as it is not set according to the profile of the people in care: we will renovate it, with a budget to match the challenges. In addition, we want to ensure greater simplicity and coordination of home-based interventions: coordination to start a major simplification project will be allocated from 2022 onwards. By 2023, the aim will be to create a single interlocutor for our citizens, in order to coordinate the activities of aid, support and care, so far carried out by several different structures: the burden of the complexity of the interventions will no longer be on the person or his or her helper. Such powerful and targeted measures will, if you adopt them, give a decisive impetus to the residential shift in our country. They respond to requests, sometimes old, from the sector, and proposals from expert reports or parliamentary work. But we want to go even further by creating new funding for the quality of services for accompanied persons and professionals. This allocation cannot be a tool and an amount fixed by law from Paris but will have to meet the specific needs of the territories and the elderly residing there. An additional EUR 500 million per year will be invested by 2025 and 800 million by 2030. The latter will fund public service objectives such as expanded intervention schedules or the coverage of white areas that do not yet have home-based services. It will also finance a better quality of life at work for home service professionals – team time, reduced part-time work, additional training. These are tools to increase measures to prevent occupational risks, as well as those incurred by carers. Finally, it will be able to finance the fight against the isolation of people accompanied at home, with extended intervention times with a single person, or to finance actions for the helpers. I have drawn up this allocation with the home helpers' federations, as well as with the departments and parliamentarians. It is an essential tool to improve the quality of the accompaniment of our citizens and to respond to the difficulties of home professionals. These substantial investments to strengthen home-based services will also help reduce wage inequalities between professionals. I know that some home helpers, especially those employed by lucrative private services, have not yet been affected by the revalorisations I have mentioned. With the amounts invested by the State in 2022, in particular with the introduction of the floor tariff, the social dialogue must now be able to open up between the social partners with a view to wage increases thanks to the increase in the funding of hourly intervention. I will personally be very attentive to it. Ladies and gentlemen, assuming this choice for home allows us to carry out a reform aimed at transforming our institutions to adapt them to the reception of older people whose loss of autonomy is increasingly advanced. I know the challenges of these institutions; They are known to many of you. Among them are the absenteeism of professionals and the difficulties of recruitment. I hear those who say that it is necessary to recruit 100,000 to 200,000 professionals to solve all EHPAD problems. To finance positions without filling them, I say clearly, it is of no use. Not all institutions have the same needs. Fight against the vacancy, with the upgrades provided for by the Ségur de la santé, loyalty to professionals, with the deployment of an action plan for the professions of old age and autonomy, invest in the healthcare staff, with the funding of 10000 additional posts with an investment of 400 million euros in 2025, is how to pragmatically respond to the challenges of the EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u15	We are also responding to this with the generalization of night nurses' periodicity and the increase in physician co-ordination time for all EHPADs, for an envelope of €67 million in 2025. We are responding to this by sustaining the gains of the crisis by massively developing mobile hygiene and geriatric teams in the EHPADs, in order to better secure them in health, for an envelope of 7 million euros from next year. We respond by giving new missions to EHPADs, some of which will become resource centres for home professionals in their living areas. We also provide EHPADs with a home projection capability to prevent seniors from going to institutions, while respecting home service missions. These enhanced home support will be open to home services, as support should not be segmented. Finally, we are responding to all these challenges thanks to the Ségur de l'investissement and the €2.1 billion recovery plan. This investment plan, it's not just a blow of paint, it's the renovation, humanization and opening of EHPADs; These are means allocated to improve the quality of life of professionals, with the deployment of small equipment against musculoskeletal disorders, and allocated to ensure respect for the dignity of the accompanied persons. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the commissions. – Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille also applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reform of the autonomy provided for by the PLFSS. It is a systemic reform aimed at ensuring quality home care for all and throughout the national territory. It is a far-reaching reform in favour of the professions of autonomy, those professions of excellence which cannot be satisfied with the words of a rostrum. It is a quick-impact reform thanks to the resources of the PLFSS committed immediately after the crisis – we do not want to leave it to future governments to respond to the challenge of the demographic transition. We owe them, to these professionals, to our elderly fellow citizens, to their families, a responsible debate, up to the challenges that concern them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u16	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u17	This twenty-sixth bill on the financing of social security, the fifth of the legislature, remains, of course, marked by the very unique context that we are going through. It is also under the seal of genuine continuity of the principles that have guided the action of the Government and the majority for the past five years. The first principle is responsible and pragmatic management of social accounts. It is no wonder that it is the very principle of the laws of financing that is to be laws of balance – a principle that, beyond the inevitable political differences that are expressed on these benches, seems difficult to contest. How can we justify placing the burden of today's benefits on future generations who will have their own social protection needs in a way that is too sustainable? In the face of what remains a challenge, and far from the cartoons, the management of social security accounts over the past five years has not given way to the excess of constraint, which had been succumbed to in some previous years, or to the permanent overbidding that undermines the credibility of social policies. The results of this balanced and therefore demanding policy have, moreover, been at the meeting, until this strategy is struck by the crisis. In 2018, this was insufficiently pointed out, so the general scheme returned to surpluses and the deficit of all schemes in 2019 barely exceeded 0.3% of the level of revenue, i.e. a near-balance. The crisis has profoundly reversed these serious and plausible prospects for recovery. Just as it would have been irresponsible to let go of social deficits without a reasonable horizon of return to balance in normal times, it would have been equally irresponsible not to respond to the health and economic crisis that had struck France and the rest of the world from the beginning of 2020. Social security, our social security, has been at the meeting both in terms of revenue, by postponing the payment of billions of euros of contributions and contributions from the first days of the crisis and then by deploying considerable support measures, as well as in terms of expenditure, since the disease branch has played an essential role in financing almost all of the health response. This reactivity, which is essential, as well as the high sensitivity of revenues to this economic situation, led to a historical deficit in 2020 – EUR 34.8 billion in the field of compulsory schemes and the Old Age Solidarity Fund – which was finally noted in the draft law. The vertigo that such figures may give must not, however, make us forget that if we had done less, less quickly and less force, the situation could have been much worse. The good news accumulated since the last fiscal year, linked to a recovery of our economy beyond expectations, can only strengthen me in this analysis. This recovery PLFSS invites us not to stop in such a good way. It is in this spirit that I wanted, on the basis of the work of the Social Spring of Evaluation, to significantly improve the social regime of artists-authors. Four amendments were adopted on my initiative in committee to simplify the approach taken by creators to the USSRAF, to lower the threshold from which they will be entitled to daily allowances, and finally to help those who have been deprived of their pension rights to buy back their prescribed contributions through the social action of the funds. Extending national solidarity to all, and above all to the most fragile, is what animated our majority until this last exercise. The second principle that guides us is that of a profound transformation of social policies to make them more effective. From this point of view, we can be proud of the fact that the Government and the majority have reformed with the help of the social security financing laws, from the first to the last minute of this legislature. Social security policies have been put at the service of the purchasing power of the assets, of the support to the competitiveness of our companies, from the LFSS for 2018, with tangible results both before the crisis and in the dynamic of the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u18	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u19	The LFSS for 2018 and the following have also paved the way for simplification in favour of employers but also and above all of the self-employed. The integration of the former self-employed social scheme (RSI) into the general scheme has led to a significant improvement in the quality of service, while taking the time for reform. It is an example of a successful transformation, welcomed by the work of the Social Spring of the 2020 Assessment, led by opposition rapporteurs. This concern for transformation is even more visible in an area for which I naturally have a particular affection and which has occupied a decisive part of the debates in committee: that of health. Successive funding laws, on the financial side, along with the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, on institutional and organizational aspects, have made fundamental changes to the health system, which suffered from both a lack of funding, an inertia of not always the most effective organizations and an overly focused mode of funding on activity pricing (T2A). Thus, the trajectory was set from the beginning of the legislature with an increase of the ONDAM of 2.3% over the entire period, while the increase of the ONDAM had been set at 2% for 2015, 1.8% for 2016 and 2.2% for 2017, which everyone agrees today to consider too low. This trajectory was subsequently revised twice: in 2019 with the emergency plan for the hospital, which raised the ONDAM to 2.5%, then in 2020, before the crisis, to 2.45%. These pre-crisis margins were joined and overtaken by the consequences of an extraordinary agreement, both by the immense effort of consultation of all the actors it required and by its conclusions. The Ségur de la santé has led to an unprecedented increase in the remuneration of health and non-care workers in hospitals and in medical and social institutions, amounting to 9 billion euros, as well as to an equally massive investment policy of 19 billion euros, based on 6 billion euros of credits linked to France recovery and 13 billion euros of debt recovery. Such figures commit both to the beneficiaries of these measures and to the nation, which in the medium term will have to pay them more directly. This is why the overbidding, or even hyper-surcharge, which can be so easy to engage in on certain platforms, is deeply out of step with these unprecedented amounts. In terms of organisations, the funding law for 2018 has put in place a particularly ambitious framework for experimentation: the famous experiments provided for in its article 51. This PLFSS sees the arrival of the first generalizations of experiments, with the entry into the common law of the experiment "Find your course" to fight effectively against childhood obesity. The use of telemedicine has been encouraged, as has telesurveillance, article 24 of which provides for care under ordinary law. Transformation dynamics are also particularly visible in the health products sector. The funding law for 2021 has allowed for a total overhaul of temporary authorizations for use. Sections 33 and 36 of this bill continue in this direction by creating direct access for drugs and early treatment for digital medical devices. It is therefore very profound changes that are at work and will have to be pursued in the service of more effective social security for all actors and, first and foremost, for insured persons. Within the framework of this reformative ambition for social security, the most fragile have occupied a special place, in terms of health, autonomy and retirement. In order to better cover the health costs of all, the funding law for 2019 allowed to merge the supplementary universal health insurance (CMU-C) and the aid for the payment of a health supplement into a new scheme: the complementary health solidarity (C2S). This text reinforces the protective nature of this scheme by providing for its systematic allocation to the beneficiaries of the RSA and the facilitation of its allocation to the beneficiaries of the minimum old age. In doing so, social security, transformed by five laws or financing bills, will have continued to work towards what it has best: to reduce, in its own social and economic context, the uncertainty of the next day. However, this assessment, which is necessarily partial, would forget one of its most important components if it did not recall what these five years have brought to the FSL exercise. The hours of debate in a Social Affairs Committee that is more invested than ever in its budgetary ritual and in often passionate – and therefore exciting – sittings are, of course, proof of its indispensable place in parliamentary work. The strength and sincerity of our common investment have justified two initiatives that deserve to be emphasized. First of all, it is the creation and deepening of a Social Spring of the Evaluation which allows the Commissioners, and in particular the rapporteurs of the Social Security Financing Law Assessment and Monitoring Mission (MECSS), to compare the objectives of measures voted in LFSS with the reality of their application on the ground. These are then the organic and ordinary texts of my initiative, intended to review the framework of the financing laws. In addition to significant changes in the content of funding legislation and its informative appendices, the proposed new scheme could radically change our review conditions. In the spring, we would have a law approving the social security accounts with qualitative annexes and thus potentially enriching the current work of the Social Spring of Evaluation. In particular, we would benefit from a date for tabling the funding bill and its early schedules on October 1, following the model of the finance bill, paving the way for an additional period of up to ten days to ensure that the quality and sincerity of parliamentary debates are respected. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM Group and on the panels of the commissions]] Indeed, I sincerely believe that it is through the improvement of our debates that social security policies will emerge. I think I can say that beyond our legitimate disagreements on the directions to be taken, we all find ourselves in the sincere desire to pass on to our children a solid, protective and humane social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u20	Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs for autonomy and the medical and social sector, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u21	A year ago, when we created the autonomy branch of social security, some on the benches of the opposition ironically said that we were creating an empty shell. A year later, it is clear that this so-called empty shell is beginning to fill well. On the resource side, the autonomous branch has since this year had own revenue consisting essentially of the generalised social contribution (CSG). These resources will be supplemented in 2024 by the allocation of 0.15 CSG points. On the expenditure side, the autonomous branch mainly finances medical and social institutions and services for the elderly and for persons with disabilities, and contributes to the financing of the personalized autonomy allowance and the disability compensation benefit. Within two years, the autonomous branch will see its revenue and expenditure increase by EUR 5 billion. The expenditure target for 2022 contained in this PLFSS is set at 34.2 billion, an increase of more than 6% over the corrected target for 2021. Let us turn now to the measures contained in this text. Article 29 enshrines the agreements resulting from the mission led by Michel Laforcade in recent months. More than 100,000 people in the medical and social sector will thus benefit from an increase of 183 euros per month, which represents an additional effort of 500 million each year – a considerable effort, which is part of the continuity of the measures we voted for last year, notably in the framework of the Ségur de la santé or by allocating 200 million to home aid. Article 30 accelerates the residential turn that we started last year and that corresponds to the will of the vast majority of the French. As early as 2022, a base rate will be set at the national level for home help and accompaniment hours. This rate will be set at 22 euros and will allow for better coverage of the cost of running home services and for the convergence of the rates of the departments. This measure reminds us, if necessary, of the whole interest of the fifth branch: thanks to the action of the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy (CNSA), social security will guarantee fair treatment throughout the territory by correcting interdepartmental disparities, thus meeting a long-expressed expectation of this sector. This floor tariff will be supplemented by an additional envelope which we will have the opportunity to discuss. The reform of the financing of home services bears the seeds of a reorganization of the sector, which is now too dispersed. The establishment of an allocation to finance coordination actions will serve as a lever to bring home support and support services (HAAS) closer together with home nursing services (HAAS). By 2025, existing structures will have to evolve to become home-based services, capable of offering both help and care in order to facilitate user approaches. The support of elderly people who are losing their autonomy can be strengthened by the interventions of EHPAD staff, who will be entrusted with the tasks of a territorial resource centre. That is the whole meaning of Article 31. I would like to point out that the priority given to the development of home supply will not be to the detriment of the establishments. The human resources of EHPADs will be revised upwards with the creation over five years of 10,000 full-time equivalents (FTEs), the strengthening of the presence of co-ordinators and nurses. Finally, Article 32 envisages improving the management of the ABS through the deployment of a unified information system by 2025. This text therefore contains several ambitious measures for autonomy, some of which were long awaited by the federations. The content of this PLFSS is also the result of continuous and collective work since the beginning of the legislature. I welcome the commitment not only of the deputy minister Brigitte Bourguignon, but also of several of my colleagues who are very committed to the issue of autonomy, including Monique Iborra, Annie Vidal, Véronique Hammerer and Didier Martin, to name but a few of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the commissions. – Mrs. Émilie Cariou also applauds]] This mobilization away from the big screen probably does not have the same visibility as a documentary intended for the general public, but it participates resolutely and concretely in the reclamation of the medico-social sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u22	Mrs Monique Limon, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs for the Family, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u23	This last PLFSS of the legislature is an opportunity to make an initial interim assessment of our family policy. If I were to sum it up in one sentence, I would say that it is a family policy that serves all families, especially the most modest. I am thinking of the advances that have been made in the Bioethics Act or in my bill to reform adoption, in favour of future adoptive families, in the interests of the child. In the field of funding laws, it was the programme of the first 1000 days and its translation into our debates that irritated my work as rapporteur. Since 1 July 2021, all families have been granted an extended paternity leave of 28 days, seven of which are compulsory, for the well-being of the mother and the child, for a better division of family duties within the couple, to enable the father to establish ties with his child in the first weeks of his life. Many governments and majorities had promised: we have done so. The other line of action that we have taken, and that comes to fruition in this funding bill, is the constant attention to single-parent families in our country. We know their precariousness: 40 per cent of children born in these families live below the poverty line. We know the hardness of separation, including economics. It was for these families – very often single mothers – that we increased the free choice supplement to daycare by 30% in 2019. And it is for these same families that we have established a public service for the payment of unpaid maintenance payments. This is a particularly unbearable double injustice: the parent responsible for the child also suffers, in 30 per cent of cases, from partial payment of maintenance payments, when it is not a total absence of payment. The public service that we have put in place this year for all separations already eliminates, at the request of one of the parents, the risk of unpaid payments. With automatic intermediation, all pensions fixed before a legal professional or a body that manages family benefits will now be paid in time and in time to the parent who cares for the child(s). In relations between separated parents, it is the best interests of the child that always animates us. The health crisis hit families with full whips. In this regard, I would like to commend the determined efforts of the Government and the family sector, which are fully mobilized to assist families and early childhood professionals. Many family benefits have been maintained, such as the Family Support Allowance (FAA) or the Education Allowance for the Disabled Child (AEEH). We have also put in place exceptional support for the most modest households, such as the increase in the school start-up allowance of EUR 100 per child for the new year 2020. As regards support for formal childcare, a flat-rate aid was introduced on 16 March 2020 for nurseries and nursing homes. A total of EUR 200 million was provided to support the early childhood sector. In addition, the committee has adopted an amendment which I have tabled to improve the information of the beneficiaries on the benefits they receive because, too often, parents are unaware of their rights. Our committee wanted to give the beneficiaries a right to information, similar to that already enjoyed by future pensioners. This time of the balance sheet allows us to chart prospects for the future. Minister, after reforming paternity leave and improving the conditions of maternity leave for self-employed persons, a broader reflection on family leave appears to be necessary. This need is confirmed by the report by Mrs Christel Heydemann and Mr Julien Damon to the Government in early October. It sets the stage for a better reconciliation between personal and professional life. The reform of parental leave is an essential step in this direction. A shorter and better paid leave in Germany has resulted in a tenfold increase in the rate of fathers' use of this leave. In order for such a reform to succeed, parents must be able to benefit from a genuine public service for early childhood after the benefit of this parental leave. [[Applause on committee benches]] Minister, how do you envisage the preparation of this beautiful reform, which would complete a new system of leave in France, more egalitarian and capable of supporting all families? Can you tell us how the Rebond plan that has been put in place should support the opening or maintenance of existing places?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u24	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs and Old Age Insurance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u25	This year, the PLFSS focuses mainly on the examination of measures within the scope of health insurance and the fifth branch devoted to the care of the elderly and disabled, and we welcome this. However, let us not forget that the old-age sector retains an essential place in the volume of benefits paid under old-age insurance. The expenditure target for 2022, all compulsory schemes, is set at € 257 billion, which still accounts for 45% of social security expenditure, of which only 144 billion is covered by the general scheme. The accounts of the old age branch bear the stigma of the health crisis. Despite a slight improvement, the branch's balance is expected to remain in deficit by 2022 to the tune of 2.7 billion euros. The industry's spending will continue to grow at a steady rate of about 3%, reflecting predictable inflation linked to the recovery in economic activity. Despite this particularly constrained fiscal environment, the Government decided, as last year, to preserve the purchasing power of pensioners by maintaining the indexation of basic pensions to inflation, estimated at 1.5 per cent. At a time when energy prices are rising, this trend in basic pensions is welcome. In this respect, I note that, with regard to pensions paid by AGIRC-ARRCO, the social partners have recently made a different choice to preserve the reserves of the supplementary pension scheme: from 1 November 2021, pensions paid by AGIRC-ARRCO will only be raised by 1% for inflation, I repeat, of the order of 1.5%. This year, the pension component of the PLFSS contains several measures which are the subject of specific articles relating, on the one hand, to the taking into account of the crisis linked to covid-19, on the other hand, to the improvement of the rights of certain professions or territories. I would particularly like to welcome the Government's commitments to self-employed workers. The pension rights of the self-employed who have been penalized by administrative closures in the context of the health crisis will be secured, through a mechanism enabling them to validate as many retirement quarters as in the last few years before the crisis, as provided for in Article 51. These are workers working in the tourism, hospitality, catering, culture and event and sport sectors. This scheme will be taken over as for the quarters acquired by the employees in the framework of the partial activity by the FSV. I also welcome the relaxation of the cumulation-retirement scheme, which will allow all retired healthcare professionals who have mobilized during the crisis to be able to combine their pensions and their income from liberal activity fully and retroactively. On the other hand, practitioners in professions that were not recognized, such as osteopaths, chiropractors or naturopaths, and which were thus unable to open up pension rights, will have the opportunity to redeem quarters to access a full pension earlier. Such a mechanism is also provided for self-employed workers who have worked in Mayotte and whose contributions have not been recoverable since 2012. Finally, following a decision of the Constitutional Council, the right to progressive retirement will be granted, as from 1 January 2022, to employees employed under a lump sum agreement, as well as to self-employed workers covered by employee schemes, as well as to social agents. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Thus this PLFSS for 2022 contains a new set of measures that will improve the situation of pensioners. It is in line with other reforms undertaken during this parliamentary term aimed at raising the standard of living of pensioners: I am thinking of the two-step increase in the minimum old age, which now has a monthly ceiling of more than 900 euros, and of the increase in the minimum retirement pension for farmers, which will increase from 75 % to 85 % of the SMIC – i.e. 1035 euros per month – from 1 November next. At the time of the parliamentary review, it is important to recall these measures, which are in the hands of our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u26	It seemed to me that it was the Chassaigne law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u27	Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs for accidents at work and occupational diseases, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u28	As you know, the occupational accidents and diseases (AT-MP) branch of the general scheme has been severely affected, like the other branches, by the health crisis that we are going through. While structurally surplus since 2013, the crisis has largely affected its revenues, causing a deficit of €200 million in 2020. This is the consequence of the social and economic dampening role of social security, particularly the AT-MP branch. Fortunately, the latter is expected to return to surplus by 2021, with a balance of 1.4 billion euros next year. This should give it sufficient room for manoeuvre to carry out ambitious actions, despite the increase in transfer to the disease branch as part of the underreporting of AT-MPs. These ambitious actions will, I am sure, be at the heart of the negotiation of the next objective and management agreement (COG) for the industry. I will pay close attention to this, because it is imperative that the industry continue and strengthen its actions to improve both the prevention and the recognition of AT-MPs, as well as their repair. First of all with regard to prevention, as you may know, the industry has recently stepped up its action in this area. During the health crisis, it helped to better protect employees and minimize contamination in the workplace, including by providing a new subsidy to finance collective barriers in small businesses. Beyond the health crisis, the industry has launched national programmes focused on three priority risks: musculoskeletal disorders, chemical risks and falls. These preventive measures are bearing fruit, but they are still insufficient. Of course, accidents at work tend to fall, but the same is not necessarily true of their severity. In 2020, the average rates of permanent disability of occupational diseases and accidents at work have unfortunately increased. The next objective and management agreement will allow us to reflect on the levers to be used to strengthen prevention actions. The branch must play a major role in the development of community prevention, which we wanted to strengthen by voting on the law of 2 August 2021 to strengthen health prevention at work. I also believe that the prevention measures carried out by the industry will have to focus more on psychosocial risks. Work must not be a place that could endanger the physical integrity and mental health of employees. This PLFSS does not contain specific measures to improve the prevention of AT-MPs, unlike the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, which provided for experimenting with an expansion of the duties of occupational health nurses in four caisses de la Mutualité sociale agricole (MSA). It would be useful for us, Minister, to know the state of this experiment and how it will relate to the new provisions of the Act of 2 August 2021. I now turn to the recognition and repair of AT-MPs. Last year, I told you that it was too early to provide figures on the recognition of covid -19 as an occupational disease. We now have more data. As of August 2021, nearly 1,500 covid-19-related occupational diseases had been recognized, out of more than 4,800 complete files filed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u29	That's very little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u30	A quarter of the validated files were validated through the supplementary system for the recognition of occupational diseases. The Single Regional Committee, set up to ensure the homogeneity and speed of processing of covid-19-related cases, seems to be popular with the vast majority of actors in the field. Consideration should now be given to how long-term covid could be recognised and taken care of: a group of experts had been set up within the Ministry of Solidarity and Health to that end. I will follow his work with great attention, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u32	Beyond covid-19, it seems necessary to improve more generally the recognition of occupational diseases. In this respect, the Court of Auditors recommends that the tables on occupational diseases be published and updated more quickly. In addition, the grooming of these tables could take place by order of the Minister responsible for social security rather than by decree. Minister, what do you think of such a recommendation? [[Applause on the bench of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to the recognition and compensation of occupational diseases, this PLFSS contains an article which is to be welcomed – Article 50 – in that it improves the compensation of pesticide victims in the professional setting, particularly overseas. This article reinforces the action of the compensation fund that we collectively created during the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. We must now be careful that communication actions are sufficient to ensure that all persons eligible for the fund benefit from them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u33	Mr Michel Lauzzana, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u34	The two dimensions of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022, namely the protection of the French in the wake of the crisis and the pursuit of the reformist ambition of this legislature, were underlined by those who preceded me in the gallery: Cendra Motin, also draftsman of the opinion, and I myself share this reading. First of all, I turn briefly to the aggregate balance of the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund to note that its level, in 2020 as in 2021, seems better than the latest estimates. Undoubtedly, with EUR 38.7 billion for the financial year ended and EUR 34.6 billion for the current year, the deficit is historic, but it reflects the lives and jobs saved by the exceptional mobilisation of the disease branch and by the reduction of contributions and contributions from the most affected companies. On the basis of assumptions essentially validated by the High Council for Public Finance, 2022 will begin a recovery, with a deficit of € 21.6 billion. Revenues will reach €438.2 billion, an increase of 3.9%, and expenditure 459.8 billion, an increase of 0.8%. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I would like to stress the dynamism of revenue: contributions are up 4.7%, the general social contribution by 3.5%, as well as other taxes. In this respect, it seems to me significant that the share of value added tax revenue allocated to social security amounts to EUR 53.7 billion. The "no matter what" saved the country's economy and increased contributions. With regard to the new measures planned within the PLFSS for 2022, I would like to point out the continuation of the work on the unification of levies around the USSRAF. This movement will allow many insured persons and their employers to contact a single contact person, at the same time as it will avoid administrative duplication. On the other hand, we are concerned about the technical difficulties, if not the reluctance of AGIRC-ARRCO. Finally, the first debt recoveries under the organic and ordinary laws of 7 August 2020 took place under excellent market conditions, proof of the credibility of the Social Debt Depreciation Fund (CADES), with interest rates ranging from – 0.22 to + 0.13 per cent in 2021. I now turn to the expenditure of social security, which, as we know, has more than ever played its role as a safety net during the health crisis. Some expenditure figures for the years 2020 and 2021 reflect the scale of the crisis: an additional 18.3 billion euros were spent by the disease branch in 2020. This expenditure was totally unpredictable in the vote on the FSL for 2020, as was the expenditure on the derogatory daily allowances and diagnostic tests, which amounted to EUR 2.2 billion in this year. Moreover, despite conservative forecasts, the successive epidemic waves we experienced this year lead us to see that ONDAM for 2021 is being revised upwards. This will amount to €237.1 billion, compared with an initial forecast of €225.4 billion. Expenditure on diagnostic tests, in particular, remains massive, exceeding EUR 4.5 billion to date. This is not the time for forced-to-go economies, but for support for the system of care and, more broadly, for the contributory and solidarity mechanisms that make up our social security. To illustrate my remarks, I would like to mention some progress made, or in the process of being made. First, measures to raise the wages of the Ségur de la santé have already benefited more than 1.5 million people. Its extension to the social and medico-social sectors is expected to amount to no less than EUR 419 million in 2022, in addition to the other measures of the Ségur, the total cost of which will rise to EUR 12.5 billion next year. Moreover, in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic at the CISC – Strategic Council of Health Industries – the commitments of the PLFSS for 2022 meet the needs of research, innovation and industrial development. I would add that the text provides for several fundamental measures, such as the introduction of a floor tariff of 22 euros per hour for home-based services, or the legislative declination of the commitments made by the President of the Republic with the introduction of a procedure for direct access to the reimbursed market for medicines. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, the Finance Committee has delivered a favourable opinion on the adoption of the PLFSS for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u36	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u37	It is with great pleasure that I am addressing you today, on this last but not least of the last bill to fund the social security of the legislature. I also feel a lot of pride, as much as the work done in committee last week was of high quality and undoubtedly allowed – I will come back – to enrich the text that we are about to consider. I would of course like to thank the rapporteur-general and the rapporteurs who have just spoken. Throughout the work of our committee, you have endeavoured to respond as precisely as possible to all of our colleagues. Beyond that, all Commissioners, and sometimes even colleagues from other committees, have been keenly interested, through their amendments or interventions, to contribute to enriching the text and our debates: I would also like to thank them for that. Before I get to the heart of the matter, I'll start by giving you a few figures. As every year, the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security marked a strong time for the Committee on Social Affairs. And for this reason: it took us almost twelve hours to examine the 62 articles in the text and the 449 amendments tabled – twelve hours during which I had the heart of giving all the speeches full latitude, because I know how important they are, both for our work and for the good health of our Parliament – certainly do not see any punctuality. If I insist on this point, I am well aware that our working conditions are not always optimal:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u38	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u39	...I took the time to explain it in committee and will not come back to it today. That being said, I will note above all that our discussions have taken place in the working atmosphere that has always prevailed in our committee, that is to say, a study, friendly and respectful of each other's convictions. In the course of our work, we adopted thirty-three amendments from six different political groups. These amendments have undoubtedly improved the text on several important points, as the rapporteurs have pointed out. In this respect, you will not be surprised to know that there is one that is particularly dear to me: I thank the committee for unanimously adopting my amendment to better control the drifts of certain health centres, particularly dental ones, and to allow for the care of all patients who are victims of abuse from these centres. Of course, I will come back to it for more time when the time comes to examine it. "The social security budget can only be summed up in out-of-ground accounting lines": I take the words of the minister. Yes, the social security budget is also and above all concrete measures that have a positive impact on the lives of millions of our citizens, with a single compass that we share on all these benches: strengthening our care system and our social protection, at the service of all the French. And that is what we, as parliamentarians, undertook to do when we examined this text in committee. A text whose examination is often submitted, I agree with you, to very strict deadlines, with which we must deal. I also welcome the very high-quality work carried out by the administrators of our House, as well as the approach taken by our rapporteur-general, who recently tabled a bill: I hope that it will receive the approval of both chambers, because it aims to review the timetable and to have longer deadlines for considering future PLFSS. However, I would stress that the Committee on Social Affairs is working on a long-term basis and many of its productions in recent months have enriched the text presented today. Before this ten-day sprint, the Commission had indeed worked hard to prepare for the review of the PLFSS, in particular through its monitoring and evaluation activities. Thus, section 43 of this bill extends the testing of consumer rooms at lower risk. Before the summer, the commission had entrusted Mrs Caroline Janvier and Mr Stéphane Viry with a flash mission on the subject. Thanks to the quality of their reflection, we debated their conclusions in committee last month in a calm climate; In addition, their work has enriched our discussions on Article 43. Another notable example is that our committee benefited from the considerable work done by the fact-finding mission on medicinal products, chaired by Mr Pierre Dharréville, whose rapporteurs were Mrs Audrey Dufeu and Mr Jean-Louis Touraine. This mission provided relevant insights into many articles and amendments related to health products. The information reports of our colleagues Annie Chapelier and Cyrille Isaac-Sibille on the organization and evolution of medical and paramedical professions have also been very useful, as these questions often come back in our debates. The Social Spring of the Evaluation also generated fruitful reflections for this PLFSS. After the time of the spring evaluation came that of legislating this autumn: in a virtuous chain, our committee adopted four amendments by the rapporteur-general drawing lessons from his work. Ms. Annie Vidal, on the other hand, had been interested in raising the salaries of staff in the home care sector of the elderly, whose article 30 of this PLFSS consolidates the funding through the introduction of a national floor rate: this is a major step forward, of which one can only rejoice. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately we did not start working on this text two weeks ago, but well before 6 October, thanks to the involvement of all of us in our monitoring and evaluation missions. As you will have understood, this last PLFSS of the legislature is a committed and committed PLFSS, resolutely oriented towards the future. In particular, the rapporteurs have highlighted this by means of our actions in various areas: this has been mentioned, but I would like to emphasise some good progress in terms of access to complementary health care for the beneficiaries of the RSA and the minimum old age, access to free contraception for all women under 26 years of age, strengthening our public service to combat unpaid maintenance payments, and the considerable resources allocated to old age and autonomy. I am convinced that the debates we will have in the Chamber will enrich this important text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] "It is up to us all to ensure that our society remains a society of which we are proud," wrote Stéphane Hessel. That is precisely what we are about to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u40	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u41	We have finally arrived at your last bill to break, to forgive, to finance social security! Dear students of La République en marche, the time has come to return your copy and give you your note! It was necessary to find a basis of notation that you cannot contest, because you will surely not like to be noted by La France Insubmise in a motion of rejection. If we add the fact that the assessor is the "basket minus two" of the band, you might want to yell at demagogy. So here's the chosen rating base: in July 2017, I introduced myself to you and took up Virginia Henderson's fourteen basic needs to describe the situation in our health care facilities at the beginning of our 2017 mandate. So let's take my speech at the time and see where we are at your fifth and final Social Security Financing Bill. As a reminder, in 2017, the last four needs were met and so the score was four out of fourteen. The first need is to breathe, which I said in 2017 was a pretty simple thing in itself but that became complicated when it was more than 30 degrees in a hospital room. We have offered you every year to stop the savings and remove the ONDAM that suffocates our hospitals, but you have systematically described these ideas as lies and demagogy. Are you sure that the installation of air purifiers would not have been a good investment if the hospitals had not been financially suffocated? Will I insult you again to talk about the lack of facilitators during the covid -19 pandemic? Your note on the first need: zero! The second need is to drink and eat. I quote my words at the time: "Would you please move forward on the bill prohibiting the gavage of geese and ducks in France so that we can ban this same gavage on human beings very quickly? " After the submission of the report that Monique Iborra and I have submitted, you have not ceased to agitate, but for what result? You ordered two additional reports and pretended to create a fifth branch of social security, actually dead because it was not funded; In addition, you have been constantly communicating on the drafting of legislation on old age and autonomy to end institutional abuse in our country. The result: nothing! Residents will continue to be wasted! Your note on the second need: zero! The third need is to eliminate. Eliminating salts and urine and ensuring their intimate hygiene are essential actions for self-sufficiency. This need is obvious, but due to a lack of time to accompany patients to the toilet, the provision of protection has become systematic. There was no surprise at any change in this area; Worse, with savings being demanded from health facilities, they are forced to favour cheaper, hence lower quality, protections. Luckily I'm one of those people who reject negative notes, because we'd be at least one point! You agree that this is very much the same! So your note on the third need is zero. The fourth need is to move and maintain a good posture, which refers to a person's ability to move alone or with mechanical means. Staff don't have time, so it'll be wheelchair or bedkeeping for everyone, I told you at the time. Let's talk about your secur of health. I see you already imagining winning a point, but let's not go too fast and judge the situation. Are there more caregivers today than when you came to power? Are health-care aides training institutes (IFAS) filling up, for example? Do we have more physiotherapists in health facilities to help mobilize? If the 183 euros of revalorisation were salutary, they were, alas, not enough, which we kept repeating to you. It required at least 300 euros minimum: this figure does not fall from the sky, it corresponds to a calculation of just revalorisation of wages. The 183 euros do not even catch up with the ten years of freezing the point of index, which you have still not thawed. French caregivers are still among the lowest paid in OECD countries. So yes, it seems huge, the amount of the cheque is high, but it is only a due, moreover largely insufficient. Evidence of this, resignations continue. Last February, Minister Olivier Véran, after accusing me of bad faith in questions to the Government, promised the national representation to publish regularly figures proving that the caregivers no longer fled and no longer resigned thanks to the Segur! Strangely enough, these figures have never been given. Strangely, really? No doubt not, because the figures would show that we were neither in bad faith nor demagogic but coherent and aware of the realities on the ground. Your note on the fourth need is, you'll easily guess it, zero. The fifth need is to sleep and rest. Fortunately, sleeping pills exist, to the great joy of pharmaceutical laboratories! I'm going to get a little bit out of the subject, but barely: you'll soon admit that my analysis is relevant. In 2017, we announced the lack of activities during the day to make patients and residents tired in the evening: there are no more activities today, and you have also managed to degrade the management of drugs. Yet, students of La République en marche, you have friendly classmates, especially on the benches of La France insoumise, who have blown you, by means of amendments, the right answers such as the creation of a public center of the medicine, the increase of transparency on the medicines or the improvement of the management of the stocks of certain medicines that are regularly in short supply! But no, you didn't want to hear anything and, in the midst of a health crisis, we have repeatedly feared, in saturated resuscitation services, that patients under sedative and curare would wake up because curare was rare. Shame! Your note on the fifth need will also be zero. The sixth need is to dress and undress. In 2017, I already told you that, to save time, staff cut the clothes behind their backs to dress residents more easily and faster. Of course, these practices continue, and, to avoid these difficulties, you bet everything on keeping at home. Let me show you why the "all home" is a mistake. If I propose to make your life easier and to withdraw the task of shopping and preparing meals so that you rest because you are tired, but that the meals take place in an infamous and dirty boui-boui where the food is disgusting, the crockery, the execrable service, that you are allowed only three minutes to eat and that the cost of the meal is 50 euros, you will surely choose to redo the shopping and prepare your food! Well, that's the same thing: surveys that conclude a preference for home care are distorted by EHPAD's offer. With a human proposal for a house of life and collective reception, the results would be totally reversed. You stop as always on the consequence without ever worrying about the cause. Your note on the sixth need: zero. The seventh need is to keep your body temperature within the normal range. Could we, as in most French homes, have enough thermometers? That's what I was asking you in July 2017. There, it's strong and we'll stop for a moment. How, during the first wave of covid -19, could you say without eyebrowing from tray to tray, from microphone to microphone, from camera to camera that could not be guessed? You were alerted as early as July 2017 to equipment shortages. "We couldn't guess": are you sure? Are you not telling yourself that perhaps it would have been wise to listen more attentively to France unsuspecting? That would have saved you a lot of trouble at the time of the notation. Above all, we might not have been subjected to this chaotic management, not to say nightmares when the health crisis came due to a shortage of equipment. Your note on the seventh need: zero pointed and red card. The eighth need is to be clean and to protect his integuments – I do not hide from you that it is my favorite. In 2017, I propose a small test: while you do not suffer from any pathology, time yourself during your next visit to the bathroom – undressing, shower, drying and dressing; We forget the comb and the brushing of teeth, not the time. If you exceed six minutes, which will certainly be the case, ask yourself! Ask yourself how or by what miracle we manage to make a toilet on a body often bruised in just six minutes, I told you in 2017. In your opinion, do we have more time today? In your opinion, the 10,000 caregivers you plan to hire within five years – i.e., 2000 per year – will be enough to increase this toilet time, when we know that, in the EHPAD information report, Ms. Iborra and I are advocating the hiring of 210,000 caregivers, to reach the minimum – minimum ratio! – recommended between caregivers and patients? It's just 200000 missing! A toilet that complies with the protocol takes twenty or twenty-five minutes, not five. In addition, sometimes two caregivers are needed for a resident's toilet. And you're here to brag in front of us by announcing the hiring of 10,000 caregivers within five years, and not even in one time! It was necessary to recruit 210,000 carers in emergency in 2018! How can you make such a proposal? Isn't institutional abuse a big enough concern for you to take it seriously? It's not just the residents you abuse because of your lack of decision, but also the staff, the families, the caregivers. How do you want to make people want to do our fine job? Here is the inconsistency: not everything settles with 183 euros and earning more to mistreat more has never made anyone dream! It is not only necessary to raise wages, but above all human, financial and technical resources. Without all these elements, you will never awaken the desire to exercise our profession, yet so beautiful when we are given the means to exercise it. For the eighth need, you have zero. The ninth need is to avoid dangers. From now on, the practice is simply to tie the patient to his bed. Let's talk a little about psychiatry, the poor parent of health – although with you, all specialties suffer the same fate. In 20 years, the national active lineup in psychiatry has more than doubled without the budgets following. As a result, 1200 positions are vacant, patients are neglected or even abandoned, and the use of care without consent, isolation and restraint is increasing. Instead of resolving the cause – the lack of staff – you only treat the symptom by judicializing violations of freedoms. That's what I call making up reality, in other words, cheating. Zero! The tenth need is to communicate with others. When Ms. Buzyn was a minister, I asked her if, in her opinion, she would respond to the patients: "I'm sorry, I don't have time," as a form of social communication. Finally, you have succeeded in the impossible, simply removing this fundamental need. Thanks to you – or rather because of you – we discovered slip syndrome, when patients, residents, let themselves die of loneliness. Do you now understand that communication is a fundamental need? People have let themselves die because, for weeks, you have closed the institutions to all social and family life! While this choice was quite understandable in the first confinement, it was inhuman to keep the closure on visits to the establishments for several months. For the moment, you can speak of a "historical" measure – no one before you had ever had such an idea and fortunately! For the tenth need, then, it will be zero. In July 2017, I finished my speech as follows: "As for the last four basic needs – acting according to one's beliefs and values, caring for oneself, recreating, learning – a very big thank you and all my respect to all the volunteers who, through their actions, allow them to be relaxed. These were the only four positive points on the 14 of the situation at the time. Well, even that, you destroyed them. Between the sanitary pass and the closure of the establishments, you have deprived our establishments of their most beautiful wealth, which allowed to satisfy these four needs, the volunteers. I will not dwell on the requirement to let the human being "act according to his beliefs and values" in view of your catastrophic management of deaths during the pandemic: I recall that families could not even bury their dead. So you even managed to lose your four points for the last four needs. We had to do it: The Republic on the move accomplishes the impossible by obtaining a zero. The result of the accounts is easy to calculate: zero pointed on the entire line! After this catastrophic record, you continue to make promises to us. You promise us that, unlike previous years, during which you have made hidden savings – you admit it, at last! – this time, you put yourself in it, you roll up your sleeves and repair everything that has been destroyed. But you promised us the same thing last year: why do you believe this year? Mr. Véran said last week that the closure of beds and hospitals was no longer a practice. No luck, we are not losers of the year and we know that with an inflation rate of 1.5% forecast for next year, all your figures are artificially inflated and remain far below the needs, the increase of which is real, due to the increase and the ageing of the population. Hospitals, already on their knees, will have to continue to tighten their belts if we vote on this budget. For us, it's no, no way! If you are honest with yourself, in view of your balance sheet, the zero point of your copy, and the reading of your promises, you can only vote in favour of this motion of rejection. And if you lack lucidity, we'll wait for 2022. After Jean-Luc Mélenchon, our candidate – he does not hide himself, because we have done our homework, we have a program – will have won the presidential election,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u42	We're not in the country here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... we will be standing before you in a year's time with a bill to finance social security worthy of the name, to rebuild our health care system. Colleagues, patients, residents, we will regain our dignity and well-contracting. Really happy days!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u45	I must respond to this very modest statement, which gives point-by-point notes to the Government and to the deputies of the majority. This is the fifth year: we are now used to it. We could have, even on your political side, waited for at least a few good points, since you're noticing us. We could have expected you to vote on certain measures. We propose the largest investment plan for hospitals and EHPADs, which brings together the equivalent of 20 years of investment, i.e. 19 billion euros of debt relief, the reconstruction and modernisation of 3000 health and medical-social institutions, including in your territory – you will not be the last to ask that the Ségur de la santé benefit this one: I thought you would vote for it, but no, that's still no! We have decided the largest plan to raise the salaries of healthcare workers working in the hospital and in the medical and social sector – 10 billion euros, forgive a little! You are asking for a salary increase of 300 euros, but you are below the account! On average, carers will receive an additional 400 euros, between the 183 euros of indexary supplement treatment and the changes to the salary scale – not to mention the revalorisation commitment made in the third part of the Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u47	Too bad it's not funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u48	We could have imagined that, when we propose an increase in remuneration for 2.5 million employees – women, to 85% – of an unprecedented level in our country, you would vote for, at least for the form, so that your commitments remain credible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u49	We're credible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u50	Well, no! You voted against it. When we proposed the creation of 15,000 additional nursing positions in hospitals, you voted against. When we proposed the reopening of 4000 beds on demand in hospitals, you voted against. When we introduced telemedicine devices to help fight medical deserts, to increase from 10,000 to 1 million telecommunications per week, you voted against it. [[Rires on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In a few hours, I'm sure you'll be voting against the telesurveillance mechanism to pay caregivers to track chronic diseases remotely with medical devices. I even think that you will vote against – it is possible, because it is a Pavlovian reflex, at home – the automatic allocation of complementary health care solidarity for the beneficiaries of the RSA and the minimum old age, which will allow to eradicate the non-recourse to social benefits. I'm not even sure that, because of reflex and lack of attention, you won't be wrong with a button and will not vote against free contraception for women up to the age of 25. Be careful: because of your anger to tell us that we are doing everything wrong, you and the candidate you promote in the Chamber may have only a very meagre assessment to present to the French, for your commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u51	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, the Government calls on national representation to vote against this rejection motion, to vote for the creation of new rights and for the hospital budget, which marks the strongest increase in the last twelve years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u53	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is allocated to Mr Thibault Bazin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u54	As you may know, we propose a very different approach and solutions from those of the La France group, even if we too do not support this draft law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u55	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u56	We will therefore abstain on this motion of rejection. Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, you say you have some idea of France. Yet you are far removed from the foundations of our social security. The deputy minister responsible for public accounts is more lucid than you are this morning, and is right when he refers to an unsatisfactory budget, which does not allow the return to balance of social accounts and even marks their "sustainable" degradation – I quote. How disturbing for future generations! I appeal to our responsibility, as we face the challenge of an ageing population tomorrow. I have listened carefully to the Government and the various rapporteurs, who have presented all the measures that are in the right direction and that we can welcome. However, they fail to mention the forgotten of this bill on the financing of social security, the forgotten of acts I and II of the Ségur de la santé and of the agreements resulting from the mission led by Michel Laforcade, neglected city professionals and poorly supported middle-class families. Moreover, the very strict application of the rules on inadmissibility to many amendments will prevent us from going into depth into all the corrections that we would have wished to make. That being said, there is an urgent need to study this PLFSS, as the Government is already giving us little time to devote to it – the review of this budget of more than 500 billion euros, which began today, must be completed by the end of the week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u57	It's not our fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u58	You should have dragged less on the previous text:
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It's not serious; It is not respectful, while the stakes are essential for our society. There is a great risk of easing the discussion of the text. It is a shame for all those who expect much from us to improve the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u60	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u61	Mrs Fiat, you know how much I value you – this is not new.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u62	When you say that, in general, it ends badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u63	Not at all, Mr. Quatennens, be quiet! I have always recognized in you, Mrs Fiat, a true defender of all the forgotten medical and paramedical professions in terms of salaries, because you have always been present on these issues. I must therefore confess my incomprehension, because too many rejection motions kill the motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u65	The Members of the La France group, who are insoubted, table one every time! You who defend the hard-core pay sheet – and you're right – I don't see how you can defend such a motion. Again, from another member of your group, I would understand, but you! If we reject this text, it will be the end of the sanctuarisation of the budget for medical and paramedical personnel, of the EUR 2 billion put on the table to improve their payroll and finance Segur, it will also be the end of the historic increase of ONDAM.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u66	Yes, you don't make any sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u67	Finally, it will be finished with the introduction of a national floor tariff of 22 euros per hour for home helpers – an unprecedented measure. I will stop by these three examples. Participate in the debate, put forward your ideas and maybe you'll find an echo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u68	That is why we are tabling amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u69	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We will not vote in favour of your motion of rejection because it is not in line with your position. I'm a little disappointed: I even advise you to remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u70	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u71	The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion to reject the PLFSS for 2022 for three reasons. Firstly, this text lacks ambition and does not provide for a lasting solution for public hospital, EHPAD and home care. Secondly, this fifth five-year social security financing bill, which balances the Government's social protection record, alone illustrates President Macron's renunciation in the fight against medical deserts. Not a measure to combat this French scourge is advanced! However, all the territories of the Republic were affected by the white medical zones and the status quo could not be satisfied. As the quinquennium ends, nothing has been done to improve the distribution of physicians in the territory. Thirdly, you do not give a perspective to the financing of social security. To this end of quinquennium, the social accounts are severely degraded because you have decided to bring the burden of the crisis of the covid-19 to social security and we still do not know what your proposals are to ensure the sustainability of it. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and FI groups]] Thus, you say nothing about new revenue, nothing about the exemptions from social contributions granted without consideration, nothing about the imbalance in the financing of the secu nity, the workers assuming it almost entirely, while capital almost completely escapes it. It is necessary to review your copy and present us with a serious, solid and ambitious text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u72	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u73	We will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Fiat, we can agree with your comments on the inadmissibility of the amendments, because how is it that almost 60% of those tabled have been declared inadmissible? Perhaps we can even agree with your position regarding the speed of the examination of the text in committee, and the order in which we had to deal with it. But frankly, to table a motion to reject a PLFSS in advance is not acceptable. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] How can we explain to our fellow citizens that the budget that we have to vote every year to enable social security and health professionals to function has not been voted because a motion to reject it has been tabled? On some points, we join you; On this one, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u74	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u75	Our group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We have traditionally rejected these motions, as we sit to debate, which is our mission as parliamentarians and our legitimate right, as Mr. Chairman has said. We cannot exempt ourselves from a debate on the bill to finance social security. Our fellow citizens expect a lot, even if we regret, like many Members here, the increasingly strict policy regarding the inadmissibility of amendments: in total, one in two amendments has been declared inadmissible, which hinders our ability to propose, alert, relay the words of our fellow citizens and therefore to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u76	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u77	I listened carefully to the Minister's subtle response to my colleague Caroline Fiat. It will have been understood, in this coming year, that the members of the Government are all converging to say that they are happy with themselves. "There was no social breakdown," we were told last night; It does not matter that 284,000 paid jobs have just been abolished and that there have been 1,000 social plans for a total of 112,000 redundancies. There was no social breakdown, according to you. You also tell us that unemployment is decreasing, which is interesting to say the least, since the number of people registered at the employment centre is increasing. On purchasing power, you have been very strong with this graph showing that the purchasing power of the poorest households has increased, in percentages, more significantly than that of the richest households. Everyone quickly understands that a percentage on all small amounts, even if it is higher, gives a very small sum, while a small percentage on very large sums is an important enrichment for the richest. In short, it is the return of self-satisfied people to the PLFSS. Despite an apparent increase in the means related to the situation due to the covid -19, austere logic continues. You are announcing 15,000 recruitments, which actually represent only 7,500 new posts; the remuneration of nurses remains below the European average; and, out of the €19 billion pledged in investments, €13 billion had already been announced in 2019. Caroline Fiat's criticism of it is both acerbic and well-founded. You say we vote against every time, but I can return the compliment to you, minister. When we propose to reconsider the removals of beds and staff that you are proceeding with, you vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u78	I don't vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u79	When we propose a multi-year plan for the recruitment of doctors, nurses, caregivers and administrative staff, you vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u80	Mr Quatennens, thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u81	When we propose to delete the ONDAM that translates austere logic, you vote against. If we were in business, we would be more consistent in rehabilitating our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u82	You'll explain yourself to the caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u83	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, a request for a public vote is before me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u84	It's time for the quinquennium's social report. You know our opinion on the subject. Mr. Deputy Minister responsible for Public Accounts, you outlined the perspective of the bill by indicating your wish to see a pension reform successful in the way that we began to examine some time ago, before our work was interrupted by the use of section 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. The reform failed: it is not a coincidence, but because it did not gain majority approval in the population. You found Caroline Fiat severe. I do not think it has been, especially as the criteria on which it has made its assessment have been known since 2017. So there is consistency in his thinking. Besides, I'm not sure I want to see you repeat, if you know what I mean. But let's leave the notation aside. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] In the last few hours, you have had a certain propensity to boast of the perfection of the measures you propose. However, it seems to me that the project deserves debate. There are disagreements between us: we have to deal with them and we have an opportunity here to do so. I am telling you frankly, this is not the budget we would have presented. That is why I will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u85	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u86	[[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds slowly]] I'm going to give the school metaphor: at the time of the balance sheet, we see at the bottom of the class the student FI a little bougon, a little suffocated, which, in short, needs to exist. So, as our colleague Millienne said, he rejects everything. We don't know what he's rejecting, but it's okay. Since we are in the field of health, the real question is whether your political plugin, whether your candidate in the election takes – and it does not take. It's the rejection of the transplant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u87	And what did you score the regionals? Six percent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u88	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] What worries me is that, to exist, you are digging a blissful wound in society by raising people against each other. You only exist that way, and that is particularly unpleasant, especially when you are again tabling a motion of rejection. Since this is a health law, I'm going to go through the medical metaphor. To reject, we prefer the overjet. The overjet is an elegant way of suturer, which makes it possible to close the wounds by avoiding scars.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u89	The surging one is the general overseer, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u90	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] [[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds slowly]] The wounds, we close them one after the other in this PLFSS with the exit of the T2A and the investment of Segur in human and infrastructure, investment in innovation and sovereignty in drugs and medical devices, prevention, access to care, economic recovery, support for autonomy and dependence, investment in EHPADs. [["Oh! » on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I remember a sentence from President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, who said, "We don't heal wounds by licking them with the tongue of wood. I will end with these lyrical verses: let's forget about lingal forestry, let's work for our medical system! Of course, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u91	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u92	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 9 Against 66
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u93	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Pierre Door spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u94	[[Applause on all benches]] This morning, I speak for my 20th PLFSS, and the last. This bill is neither more nor less than a draft end of the presidential term; It follows three disappointing PLFSSs, the yellow vest crisis, the health crisis and a budget for 2021, which mainly contained cheque books. France was put under infusion by the billions borrowed during the successive waves of the covid -19 epidemic. From now on, we have to get out of the "no matter what it costs." The waltz of billions, as you know, cannot be sustainable. This PLFSS comes to the conclusion of a rather disastrous legislature for France: it is a pre-electoral project which aims to not offend anyone but which, in reality, does not really satisfy anyone either. We regret that its review was relegated at the end of the week, when it is a budget of almost EUR 600 billion. The Government is introducing a catalogue of scattered measures which recalls the former DMOS Act, which contains various social measures. You are trying to catch up with what you have omitted in the health laws of July 2019 and April 2020 at the cost of denaturing the principles of the 1996 Social Security Financing Act, the famous Juppé law. What does this law say? It aims to control social and health expenditure and not to exceed the national target of health insurance expenditure in the areas of city care and hospitalisation. It is up to Parliament to approve revenue by branch and expenditure. It must be noted that the PLFSS deviates from the financial nature of this category of legislation. Of course, the project we are discussing contains quite acceptable measures and we say yes to many of them: on complementary health care, contraception for women up to 25 years, the generalisation of certain experiments, the management of telemonitoring in the common law, the prevention of unpaid maintenance payments, support for midwives and home helpers... But, in view of the abyssal dive of accounts and the trajectory of deficits, the financial aspect of the bill is negative because it does not address the weaknesses of the system, nor, moreover, the previous budgets of the quinquennium. In 2020, the balance of the basic schemes was at the level never reached – EUR 39.7 billion. Again this year, the crisis still affects expenditure and the deficit is still very large, the Committee on Social Security Accounts notes in its report for the financial year 2021: the deficit is rising to EUR 34.8 billion. By 2022, you set it at 21.4 billion. Expenditure in the ONDAM field exceeded the target voted in the PLFSS for 2020 by 13.8 billion. For 2022, the non-Segur ONDAM is set at 2.7%, after significant increases of 9.4% in 2020 and 7.4% in 2021. According to the High Council for Public Finance, the provision for testing, vaccination and work stoppages could be underestimated due to the degree of uncertainty and the hazards caused by the health situation. Mr. Delegate Minister responsible for Public Accounts, you acknowledged this morning that the deficit you anticipate for the following years will remain high. In 2025, it will concentrate mainly on the disease branch at the level of 15.2 billion and on the pension branch at the level of 8.2 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u95	It's huge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u96	The adjustment of social security accounts is therefore not for tomorrow. How many exercises will it take to climb the slope? It's a time bomb transmitted to future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u97	That's very disturbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u98	Social finance is the priority for the recovery of all public accounts, as social spending accounts for almost half of public expenditure. Yet, no course is set. Communication should not be used as a strategy. Of course, we are not against the organization of care, but the issues of the financial side cannot be minimized. It is structural reforms that need to be tackled. Let us be realistic: how will you finance the fifth branch for autonomy? You have already given up the bill on the old age and autonomy that you have made us look forward to – "historical," you said. The PLFSS for 2021 provided for 2.5 billion euros of new expenditure. In fact, this is a hijacking of the fraction of the CSG so far allocated to the CADES: 0.15% of the CSG has been reassigned to the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government. It's just financial piping. In addition, the funding of pension schemes has deteriorated, and the reform has gone unnoticed. And what about family politics? You forget: you have punctured some of the revenues of the National Fund of Family Allowances (CNAF) for the benefit of the sickness branch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u99	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u100	It is essential to regain control of the debt and to renounce the deadly poison of perpetual debt. Between 2019 and 2021, the additional debt borne by CADES increased by 51 billion euros. The aim was to bring the social debt down to zero in 2024. The objective has now been pushed back. The August 2020 Social Debt and Autonomy Act, which we voted on, extended the life of the CADES from 2024 to 2033. It provided for the amortisation of €136 billion in debts. The counterpart is the ten-year extension of the social debt repayment contribution (SDR), a regressive tax that was to disappear in 2023. The Court of Auditors estimates that the EUR 92 billion ceiling for the CADES deficit recovery authorisation for the financial years 2020 to 2023 will almost certainly be exceeded by 2023. When will we legislate again? It will have to be done, either with you or with another government. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We treat on credit, we make cheques without provision. But how many future generations will bear the debt? It is imperative to react, because it is about the future of social security. Unsurprisingly, the group The Republicans will not be able to vote as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u101	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u102	[[At 11.05 a.m., Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Mr. Hugues Renson in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u103	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u104	This bill on the financing of social security is special in many respects. Of course, I will never, like Jean-Pierre Door, have the honour and the chance to examine twenty PLFSS – I participated in only fourteen PLFs. It is both the last PLFSS of the legislature and the one that accompanies the exit from the health and economic crisis. As Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and Valérie Six have pointed out, his discussion takes place under quite special conditions. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, when 60 % of the amendments tabled come to a standstill, we have to ask ourselves about the reality of the right of amendment – I am all the more saddened by the fact that the situation is getting worse over time. We need to think about it, because we will not be able to continue working this way. I would add that we have seen a first: the ministers' hearing took place after the amendments were tabled for consideration in committee. It is an invention of first ropes – one can always try. I like to have some light on a text before proposing amendments; But it is the hearing of the ministers that provides it. Let us beware that in the future we will be able to build stronger, trust-based working relationships together. Experience has shown that the latest budget texts of a legislature, which precede the presidential election, have few ambitions and are often limited to dispatching routine business. This is not the case for this PLFSS for 2022, which contains important new measures and contributes to the fulfilment of commitments made in previous years. The pandemic is not over, as the figures released this morning point out, and uncertainty remains; Yesterday, we were able to give ourselves wisely the keys to fighting the pandemic. In this context, it is necessary to highlight the positive elements of the text, while drawing the Government's attention to certain aspects that we consider to be important but insufficiently taken into account. From a purely financial point of view, Olivier Dussopt said very well, this PLFSS continues the trajectory begun last year following the conclusion of the agreements of the Ségur de la santé, with 2 billion euros allocated to the upgrading of the health professions. This recognition is historic, as we had never seen before – everyone has to clean up in front of their door. This is particularly the case in the area of autonomy – Madam Deputy Minister, I know that this is a fight that you have been fighting for many years. The medical and social sector, which had legitimately expressed its disappointment that it had been partially forgotten last year, is being repaired, thanks to an envelope of EUR 770 million. ONDAM for 2022 increased by 2.6%, or 3.8%, according to the criteria. The comparison with those we knew between 2012 and 2017 – Jean-Pierre Door knows this by heart – shows that a real effort has been made. In previous years, this objective was only used to adjust health spending to the margin, so that the health system was weakened. But the consequences of a weakened health system hit us in the middle of last year. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress that it is absolutely necessary to reform the budgetary control tools for social security, in particular the deployment of expenditure in the territories. The shortcomings of ONDAM have been identified and the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance has already made several proposals to improve it. We have to follow them. Despite an extremely unfavourable environment, our health care system has held, thanks to staff. They are the ones to be thanked, because they have always been present. The financial efforts undertaken are considerable; Nevertheless, the social accounts deficit reached 22 billion euros in 2022 – as the minister delegate said. It's a little less than expected, but it's now structural. We all know that resorving it will require courageous reforms in the coming years: it will be for the next quinquennium. The text contains some advances that should be emphasized: the full management of contraception for women under 25 years of age; the definition of a financial and legal framework for medical telesurveillance – forgotten the incipient telemedicine, it is now effective; Reimbursement of the consultations of liberal psychologists – there was a great need for a framework; enhancing access to visual care by increasing the skills of orthoptists – for once, there is at least one positive element in the area of access to care; the various simplification measures for the self-employed – you mentioned them. Population ageing is ahead of us: it represents a wealth, but also a considerable challenge, which must be met. The creation of a national floor rate of 22 euros per hour of home intervention is in the right direction. If the long-awaited law is not there, there is a beginning of a financial framework. I emphasize this because I have known bills that draw an empty framework; It defines expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u106	Jean-Pierre Door explained where the new resources came from, but the framework is there. The better remuneration of home help workers is a very important issue. We know they're very poorly paid. It will only be necessary to ensure – as you said, Madam Deputy Minister – that the agent association is not the only beneficiary of the measure and that the employee sees the translation of the measure on her pay sheet, at the bottom right. The State and departments must act together to make public policy of autonomy a success; the needs are still growing and there are jobs that we need so much, that we can't move away. Therefore, the Government's amendment to establish a supplementary allocation for contracting between departments and home-based services is a step in the right direction, as the scheme will adapt to the specific needs of the territories. Of course, we will support you on this path. This PLFSS is probably not the best legislative vehicle for structural reforms. I guess we'll be discussing pensions next year. However, I regret that some issues are not covered. This is particularly true of access to care and the fight against medical desertification, with the exception of the visual sector. I deeply regret it. Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, is not here, but I affirm that it is necessary to relax the path of care. Those who claim that we will train tens of thousands of doctors in the next five years tell you stories. The only way is to increase the skills of professionals, as we have done for midwives, orthoptists and physiotherapists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u107	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u108	Otherwise we will not succeed: the number of medical hours available is lower than 40 years ago, because there are 15 million more people and more needs. The rapporteur-general knows this perfectly well: on these issues there are few disagreements between us. Only care must always be taken to ensure the coordination of care – it is also a point of agreement between us. Unfortunately, the increasingly strict admissibility rules have hindered our proposals. So we can't do anything, we can't say anything, and we're waiting. It is not possible, however, that action must be taken. Stéphanie Rist had made interesting proposals, which were half undressed, that's a shame. Thus, if the rules on the practice of practitioners with a diploma outside the European Union (PADHUE), which required three years of public service practice, had been relaxed by the reduction of this requirement to two years, it would have been sufficient to rely on the validation of experience acquired (VAE) to recognise the competences of PADHUE and their ability to practice in the private sector; From there, they could be projected into the territories, with agreements at the key. Why don't we? Because parliamentarians cannot table amendments! When we see this, our fellow citizens must wonder what we serve! On the other hand, while the regulations on the labelling of community hospitals were published last spring, the local decline is difficult to translate into reality, while the labelling of community hospitals with identified services is the means of sustainable funding. Madam Deputy Minister, you have come to Châteaudun, you have seen what are the local hospitals; you have seen the mobilization of the medical community and how high expectations are. Between the Paris decision and the local application, there is this path that needs to be taken as quickly as possible. At the end of last month, the fifth national plan for palliative care was launched. Its goal is to provide all territories with palliative care services by 2024. If funding of EUR 170 million has been announced to achieve this, I regret that no ad hoc article in the text aims to achieve this ambition. Commitments were made last year, providing opportunities for the 27 departments that do not have a fixed team.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u109	Ah, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u110	That's the case with me! When one is confronted with this situation, it is no longer surprising that some want to go further on the end of life. Let's find a solution. There is a financial response; A territorial response is needed, formalised and finalized. Ambulance workers were also very solicited during the health crisis. We know their claim to change categories. The subject of their training needs to be addressed. Emergency reform will be fully effective on 1 January 2022. It has a real difficulty: differential pricing according to the age of the patients. Between a 4-year-old patient and a 50-year-old patient, the fee difference can be as high as 50% for medical procedures and 40% for biology. Some paediatric emergency services will be in difficulty. It is not too late to review the copy, as you know, since requests to do so have been addressed to the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Dear Thomas Mesnier, you are an emergency worker and are familiar with these issues: Pediatric emergencies are a problem. For many years, the drug policy, together with the public hospital, has been the adjustment variable of the PLFSS. Every year, we were looking for a little money and we were taking here and there 1 billion or 500 million – it was easy. But the result is that, after a while, the pharmaceutical industry turned out to be totally dependent on abroad for active ingredients, as shown by the examples of curares and the many medicines in rupture – more than 2500. We need to reverse the logic and rearm the pharmaceutical tool. Of course, the PLFSS has made very important progress and the President of the Republic has mentioned €4 billion to support this sector in future investments. However, article 38 on the industrial footprint leaves me dubious. Perhaps the minister will be able to explain to us the meaning of this expression. I am not convinced that this is enough for a real relocation. We must no longer find ourselves in the situation that was ours when the President of the Republic came to my department in Eure-et-Loir to launch the Pfizer vaccine plant: we must not only be conditioners, we must also be manufacturers. In France there is innovation, research and higher education: our country is able to radiate in the world as it has always done. We are also wondering about the safeguard clause for medicinal products. The amount fixed at EUR 24.5 billion seems too low in relation to what can be seen for the year 2021. I understand that at this time we have already spent the envelope. In addition, there has been a significant gap between the amounts voted by Parliament and actual expenditure over the past ten years. Would it not be appropriate to allow a reassessment of this clause, once the amounts of the discounts and payments under the previous year's safeguard clause have been known? In an ultra-competitive global context, where the French market is distinguished by a low growth in pharmaceutical turnover, we need to think about these data. Everyone agrees that it is essential to rearm the French pharmaceutical industry and to make it attractive again to secure – I insist on the word – the needs of our health care system. Deputy Minister, can you explain to us how the safeguard clause was designed, knowing that the amount planned for 2021 is already exceeded? As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats emphasises the strong advances of the PLFSS, the ONDAM which is at the key and the sanctuarisation of the financing of all staff; But there are also holes in the snowshoe. We will therefore carry a demanding message, because it is our responsibility as parliamentarians and leaders to ensure that answers are provided to the questions before us. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] According to a study published by the FIFG last week, the policy of access to care is the second priority of the French after purchasing power; Let's all keep this in mind. I regret that there are not enough answers and I hope that the parliamentary debate will correct some shortcomings. In any case, our group will support you; He will be vigilant and attentive, waiting, of course, for you to take his proposals into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u111	Loyal and demanding, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u112	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u113	The draft law on the financing of social security for 2022, submitted to the Council of Ministers on 6 October, is, in many respects, a technical text without great ambition. It does not provide a solution to the difficulties of the public hospital and to the loss of autonomy in the short, medium and long term. However, these are the two major challenges facing social security. While the covid-19 epidemic severely tested the resistance of the social security system, we were entitled to expect the Government to be more proactive on health and autonomy issues. The health crisis we are still facing must question us. She's forcing us. We need a stronger public hospital, with increased supervision ratios, for better patient care and better quality of work for professionals. A strong public hospital is also a policy of zero bed closure, from now on; it is an ONDAM of more than 2.5 points above the level of inflation, to allow hospitals to equip themselves; It is also a greater attractiveness of the trades, with wage increases going beyond the mere catch-up by the Ségur de la santé. The damage to covid-19 in the EHPADs and among the elderly living at home must also challenge the Government on the means allocated to the fight against loss of autonomy and against dependency. Older persons deserve to be better cared for and that the welfare of older persons is one of the Government's priorities. These are major challenges that are missing from the PLFSS by 2022. Of course, it is not all to be thrown into the text and we will support a number of measures advocated by the Government. We regret, however, that these are categoryal advances of limited scope, which respond only in an imperfect way to the ills of the social security system. Thus, we will support the free use of contraception up to 25 years of age, although we wished to extend it beyond the age of 25. We will also support the simplification of access to complementary health care for beneficiaries of the RSA and the minimum old age. However, since the AHR is not open to young people between the ages of 18 and 25, we ask that the health supplement be opened to them. The allocation of the RSA is not automatic for eligible persons: this means that the supplement will not cover all the persons concerned, which implies a lack of care for the most vulnerable persons. You cannot remain silent about this. With regard to medico-social services, we will support the introduction of a floor price equal to EUR 22 per hour, which will be binding on all departments in the area of home care services. Nevertheless, several votes were cast to request a floor rate of 24 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u114	On what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u115	That's the department's assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u116	Why didn't you accept this legitimate request? We will also support improved maintenance recovery. However, the widespread use of financial intermediation of maintenance may lead to effects on the market. The spouse to whom alimony will be paid risks seeing the social benefits to which he is entitled decrease and, with them, his power to live; It would be counterproductive for families. This PLFSS and the previous one have taken over the debt covid by social security, now plunged into a long-term deficit, although it would have been natural and healthy if it had been borne by the State budget and gradually reimbursed by tax. Choosing to attach covid debt to social security, as you do, is to exclude many taxpayers from its repayment, including multinational corporations, shareholders or banks. When you know that income from capital accounts for only 4% of the financing of social security, this raises questions about your policy of always asking the same people to consent to the efforts. The response to health emergencies is the responsibility of the State and the national solidarity attached to it; It is not a prerogative of social security. By choosing to base the covid debt on social security, the Government called on professional solidarity to replace the State and de facto excluded many contributors to the war effort, dear to President Macron. With this decision, you assume to say that it is only for the workers and pensioners to repay the covid debt, which has allowed the companies not to put the key under the door. The debt has also led to an unprecedented economic recovery, which you also welcome. Do you not find it illogical and unfair to have indebted the country – and therefore, future generations – in order to save the economy, while at the same time renouncing to ask the economic actors to participate in the repayment of the debt that saved them from bankruptcy? The Autonomy Act, which is a great forgotten feature of the quinquennium, is also one of the dead ends of the Government's policy. Last year, you created the fifth branch of social security – almost by chance – without ever providing it with sustainable financial resources. In addition, the branch will be financed by the CSG at 90%, i.e. by employees and pensioners. Employers' contributions, through the CNSA, represent only 6% of the industry's revenue. This shows a decline in professional solidarity and a harmful taxing of social security. Whether it is the Libault report, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) report or the Fiat-Iborra parliamentary report, recruitment needs are estimated at an additional 200,000 jobs to reach the ratio of one caregiver per resident. You propose 10,000 job creations in five years; At this rate, it would take a hundred years – a century! – to provide the country with the necessary professionals. Frankly, it's not serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u117	I hope you don't believe that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u118	With regard to the family branch, which has been recovering from surpluses since 2021, we wonder about your aspirations regarding family policy, given the needs of the sector and the absence of notorious measures in the PLFSS. The national target for health insurance expenditure is expected to increase by 3.8% by 2022, once the exceptional costs related to co-vid have been neutralized. However, with inflation at 1.5%, the ONDAM for 2022 fell by 0.3% compared to the credits consumed in 2021; It will therefore not lead to an ambitious policy for the health system. This is all the more true for the hospital ONDAM, since it will increase by only 0.5%, which is less than the evolution necessary to maintain strictly the existing in hospitals. Again, the Government is not at the meeting. Health care professionals express their dissatisfaction, and you comfort them in their anger. Midwives, nurses, doctors, ophthalmologists: the list of dissatisfied is long, and the text will not provide the necessary solutions. Disaffection for the care professions – called care – is a reality that needs to be addressed if we are to meet the health needs of the population. The issue of medical desertification is totally hidden in the PLFSS, while it is a reality of life for our fellow citizens. Once again, the Socialist and Related Group will propose amendments to deal with this dramatic situation for more and more French people. The budget you are presenting will not allow the reopening of beds in hospitals, where you have closed about 13300 since 2017, resulting in a reduction in the care of the sick and a loss of luck for our weakest citizens. The magnitude of the financing needs related to the health crisis and its lasting effects must lead to a reduction in the financing of social security, with substantive work on the issue of revenue. Exemptions and reductions in social contributions must be seriously questioned, as they undermine the finances of social accounts. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] It is urgent, Madam and Mr Ministers, to give social security the means to get out of the lasting deficits in which the crisis of the covid and the political choices of the Government led it. It is time to provide the country with a modern, robust and ambitious social protection system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u119	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u120	We are starting this morning to consider the last bill to fund social security in the legislature. Unfortunately, it still bears the stigma of the health crisis that we have been going through since March 2020. The social security deficit is expected to reach 21.6 billion by 2022 and remain at around 15 billion in the long term. It is therefore not, Mr.Minister, a return to balance text. The social deficit which we have to approve is, of course, justified by the scale and longevity of the amortization mechanisms deployed to combat the health, economic and social consequences of the crisis of the Covid-19. Between 2020 and 2022, the country will have spent nearly $40 billion on tests, vaccines and support for health facilities. At the same time, income from social security has been reduced as a result of the decline in activity. Two thirds of the deficit in 2020 is thus attributable to the fall in contributions ; a sudden and very marked scissors effect, which reflects the importance of the country's countercyclical effort to withstand the health shock. There are, however, grounds for hope and belief in light at the end of the tunnel. The first of these is the return of growth. The dynamism of the revival of economic activity benefits the social security accounts, which improved significantly in 2022, with a reduction of 13 billion in the projected deficit compared to 2021. Here we foil all prognosis and confuse the prophets of evil who predicted the apocalypse. With an expected growth of 6.3% in 2021 – the strongest in the whole euro area – we are clearly demonstrating that the strategy of the Government and the majority was the right one. Because it is first and foremost growth that will make it possible to regain balance in the accounts, we have the proof that the "whatever it costs" was not a spending madness, but a necessity and the best of things to do to preserve the economic tool and prepare for the rebound. The second reason for hope lies in improving the epidemic situation. Even if the experience invites us to the utmost caution in health forecasting, we approach the examination of the nation's social accounts in a context of epidemic decline that the success of the vaccination campaign makes it possible to apprehend with more serenity than in the past. While the additional cost of covid-19 was $15 billion in 2021, a $5 billion provision was included in ONDAM 2022 to finance the exceptional expenses associated with the epidemic. As you said, Minister, apart from the expenditure related to the health crisis, ONDAM will continue to grow strongly in 2022: more than 2.7% excluding measures from the Secur de la santé. The bill marks a break with the past. For the first time, no savings will be requested from the public hospital. We regret, however, that this moratorium does not apply to the price of the drug. For several years now, the pharmaceutical sector has been facing declines of about EUR 1 billion, which are weakening it, as the crisis has shown and as my colleague Philippe Vigier has pointed out. If the stimulus package allowed the pharmaceutical industry to invest massively, a moratorium on lower drug prices might have allowed it to become the leader it has been and thus to walk on both its legs. Because everything comes to the point of the one who knows how to wait, the group Action Together welcomes the re-emergence of biosimilar medicines in the PLFSS, for the first time since 2014. However, they are responsible for only 6 million savings, while the Court of Auditors estimates their potential for reducing health insurance expenditure to almost 700 million. Why not go faster in this area? The PLFSS for 2022 also pursues commitments to raise the wages of caregivers and to improve the health care system made in the framework of the Ségur de la santé in July 2020. A total of 12 billion will be spent on this project, including an additional 2 billion for the rise of Ségur in the hospital, for the upgrading of the medical and social sector resulting from the Laforcade agreements and for further revalorisations for the most modest employees. We have to say this again and thank them again: for many months, it is all the caregivers who have been put to the test and who have stood up in front of the virus. The crisis has highlighted the weakness of their remuneration. The Ségur has provided an immediate response to recognize the commitment of those who carry our health care system at arm's length. On this point, however, let me make a point. Let us make sure that we do not create new "forgotten" in the medical and social sector. I am thinking in particular of the health workers in the homes of life, who depend on the departments, or the educators in the field of disability. They are now excluded from the famous indexary supplement of 183 euros net, because the structure that employs them does not correspond to the criteria of Segur. This differentiated revalorisation is misunderstood by staff. It is also a source of difficulty in recruiting these institutions, which are struggling to attract nurses or caregivers because of a lack of attractiveness. The Laforcade agreements have extended Ségur to the field of medical and social care and have responded to the frustration experienced by many caregivers in this sector. Our group welcomes this, but believes that it is imperative to correct the last shortcomings of these agreements and to embark on a path of revalorisation that leaves no one on the side. The Ségur de la santé has been a success in every respect for our health care system and in particular for the hospital, which has been abandoned for far too long by our public policies. We are proud to belong to a majority who made this historic investment of €9 billion to recognise and upgrade the skills of those who care, and €19 billion to modernise and transform our health care system. This PLFSS is the translation. It will make it possible to invest 2 billion euros in hospitals and EHPADs by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u121	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u122	The committee has also unanimously adopted an amendment to remove the wage share of over-contributions from the fire premium of professional firefighters. This represents a monthly gain of about 55 euros net per agent. Our group hopes that the discussions will lead to the same unanimity in the sitting. We will make an amendment to that effect. The bill has another aspect that is absolutely vital to the future of our society: that of autonomy. It is an implacable demographic reality, we are ageing, France is aging. First of all, it is a great opportunity, but it is also a major challenge, which questions the sustainability of our pension system, the relevance of our mechanisms of intergenerational solidarity and the way we look at older age. We enter a society of longevity. The challenge is considerable: just because of demographics, between 150,000 and 200,000 full-time equivalents would have to be created in the sector by 2030. Five years after the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing, it was therefore urgent to invest massively in this sector of the future in order to strengthen the attractiveness of the professions of autonomy. That's what we did through Segur. This is also what we have been working on with the creation of the fifth branch devoted to autonomy, in the latest law on the financing of social security. Many promised, we did. While the group, like many of you here, deeply regrets the absence of a "old age" law, the chapter dedicated to the autonomy of this PLFSS marks a new important step that should nevertheless be welcomed: 400 million euros of new measures will be committed in 2022, and this effort will gradually rise to 1.3 billion in 2025. Because the residential shift is first and foremost an aspiration of the elderly themselves and because it is fully part of the solution to the challenge of autonomy, we welcome the introduction of a floor rate of 22 euros per hour for home care services. Thank you, Minister, for continuing the fight that many of us have been fighting here for several years. This will reduce disparities between departments and improve the quality of service for accompanied persons as well as for home help workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u124	Because the cost of one hour of home intervention is usually around 24 euros, our group will defend, together with the other two groups of the majority and the Government, an amendment aimed at creating an additional quality allocation of 3 euros, which will be added to the base price of 22 euros, in order to value the enhanced accompaniment offers, for example, evenings or weekends, but also to finance actions in favour of staff. The additional cost of this measure for the departments will be fully covered by the autonomy branch, through a specific assistance provided by CNSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u125	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u126	More than EUR 100 million will also be directed towards EHPADs, to guarantee at least two days of weekly attendance of the coordinating physician and to generalize the time limits for night nurses. These are concrete advances that will immediately improve the care of people in EHPADs and at their homes. The PLFSS rightly assigns a new mission to the EHPADs, who are forced to become open institutions, able to intervene "outside the walls" to accompany the dependents to their home. Minister, could other structures assume this role as a platform in geographic areas without EHPAD? Public action has probably failed to make the home a real issue: how can we move forward on the subject of the adaptability of housing? Without being exhaustive, I come to the measures of this PLFSS that will ensure better access to care for all. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the real progress made by this text in this area. The generalisation of medical telesurveillance will thus improve the follow-up of patients with chronic diseases while their prevalence is increasing in France. The enlargement of the list in addition, with an additional EUR 300 million, is good news as it will help democratise access to the most innovative treatments. The full reimbursement of contraception for women up to the age of 25 is a major public health measure, while the pill is becoming less and less popular among young women. Considering that men are equally concerned with the subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u128	... our group will support an amendment to promote the sharing of the contraceptive burden within the couple. An amendment by our colleague Annie Chapelier, aimed at experimenting with direct access to midwives in the context of applications for sterilization, was also adopted in committee. We will support its resumption in the meeting. [[Applause on a few benches of the Action ens and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, our group, faithful to its constructive approach, is approaching the examination of this PLFSS in a spirit of openness. We will fully support the strong measures it implements, particularly in terms of autonomy, because the horizon is emerging, but also in terms of access to care. We will be able to propose to improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u129	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u130	Before I speak on the substance, I would like to express, on behalf of the entire UDI-I Group, our dismay at the conditions for examining this text: 70% of our amendments have been declared inadmissible. Should we get used to three-quarters of the amendments tabled now being declared inadmissible? That we only give 24 hours to our debates in committee? For the President of the Republic, the answer seems unequivocal. Indeed, he reiterated his intention to restrict the right of amendment of parliamentarians in the general states of justice. Yet it is a legitimate right. The method does not respect the work of national representation. Let us turn to the bottom line: we note with concern that the social security accounts remain at a level never before reached, 34 billion euros, while the social debt peaks at 166 billion euros. The social accounts therefore remain very marked by the health crisis, but it is not currently envisaged to make any budgetary choices or structural reforms in order to return to balance in the long run. Today's public policies cannot reasonably be based on debt. Without structural reform, you leave it to future generations to pay for today's expenses. This is also the position of the Court of Auditors in its report on the application of social security financing laws: "The return of social accounts to balance is essential so that today's social benefits cease to be partly financed by borrowing, and therefore by future generations". This is all the more paradoxical because the President of the Republic said a few years ago that "debt is tax squared". The same applies to Édouard Philippe a few days ago, who is now advocating the restoration of order in public finances. Our group has constantly offered you ways of saving money to find the way to balance social accounts. The first is the fight against fraud in social benefits. A whole chapter of the text is devoted to it, but it contains only one article. We invite you to refer to the proposals of the excellent report which my colleagues Pascal Brindeau and Patrick Hetzel have published following a committee of inquiry. How can we not be alarmed when we see that the difference between the number of active Vital Cards and the number of people eligible for these rights would be in millions? How not to be questioned when we read various facts showing that fraud networks are organized on a recurring basis – two Romanian families have thus formed several hundred false self-entrepreneurs' files in order to unduly collect compensation, diverting 1.7 million euros of benefits! According to the report, it is several tens of billions of euros that could go to those who really need it. Finally, let us remember that you rejected the bill by our colleague Patrick Hetzel on the establishment of a biometric vital card when it took only three months to establish the QR code of the sanitary pass. Secondly, a more prevention-oriented public health policy would make it possible to emerge from an exclusively curative logic, less advantageous from both a medical and an economic point of view. We intended to propose a series of amendments to develop the use of screening, but we will not be able to talk about it because they are also inadmissible. Thirdly, we must succeed in the residential turn. To receive care at home rather than in institutions, to focus on autonomy as much as possible and for as long as possible, is what our fellow citizens aspire to. In addition to promoting the quality of care and ensuring the serenity of the patient's home, this solution provides tremendous savings for health insurance. To modernize our health care system, we need to re-examine ONDAM as we have been proposing for several years now. Our group is campaigning for the establishment of a ORDAM – the regional objective of health insurance expenditure – in the form of a decentralised ONDAM with the regions. The Government would be responsible for establishing guidelines to ensure equal access to health care for all our fellow citizens, and then for the regions to adapt health policies on a territory-by-territory basis. Our health care system cannot be articulated indistinctly, whether in Occitanie or in the Hauts-de-France! Trust in the territories: they are responsible and know the local issues. Our group calls for the multi-annuality of ONDAM for greater medium-term visibility of health policies. This is what the Court of Auditors refers to in its report on the application of social security financing laws, and that is what all the associations, all the trade unions and all the bodies we have been able to meet demand. Health actors need greater visibility. Let us plan for the future in a sustainable way! Our group also calls for a more focused focus on the relevance of care and quality of care rather than on the growth of ONDAM alone. We do not consider that the continuing increase in health system spending is the only indicator of public health improvement. Recent OECD graphs show that "in French hospitals, 405,600 people work in tasks other than medical tasks, 54% more than in Germany, although the population is almost 25% higher than in France". Let us restore medical time to physicians by promoting direct access and considerably simplifying their administrative tasks. All the health actors we met told us how much they had gained in flexibility during the health crisis and the fear that they would feel again the weight of administration on their shoulders. Such a reflection on the health system must be defined around high priorities, and one of them is certainly the access of all citizens to care, no matter where they live: it is the fight against medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u132	It is not acceptable for certain territories in our country to be completely devoid of health professionals. These shortages fuel the non-use of care. To combat the desertification of our territories, the numerus clausus was opened in order to train more doctors. This was necessary because it is recognized that, in view of the changing working conditions, 1.8 doctors are now needed to replace a retiring doctor. But this will only produce effects in several years. What are we doing today? There is a need for a fair distribution of the provision of care throughout the national territory. That is why our group has proposed amendments to this effect, which have unfortunately been declared inadmissible: internships in under-density areas, incentives for installation, advance notice for doctors leaving the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u134	With regard to palliative care, we took note of the national plan presented by the Minister of Health last September. Nevertheless, we regret that no measures for the development of palliative care are included in this PLFSS, as the rapporteur-general undertook. It should be noted that several departments do not have palliative care units. With regard to reforms relating to follow-up care, rehabilitation and psychiatry, no simulation is ready and no decree is issued today. They are therefore like a big leap in the void, greatly tainting the acceptability of these reforms. The professionals concerned do not know what to expect. With regard to the provisions of the law resulting from our colleague Stéphanie Rist's proposal to limit the use of acting in hospital services, many hospitals draw our attention to the possible closure of whole services. Let's make sure the cure isn't worse than evil. If we share the objective of fighting overbidding hospitals, we believe that they may need to be given more time by suspending this provision or finding an alternative. True to the constructive approach that characterizes us, we welcome the few good measures in this text. I am thinking in particular of the reimbursement of female contraception up to the age of 25 years, the reimbursement of psychological counselling by health insurance, the introduction of a floor rate for home helpers and the adoption of an amendment in committee to abolish the wage share of over-contribution on fire pay for firefighters. With regard to the enlargement of the wage recovery of the Ségur de la santé, we are obviously very favourable, but regret that other staff remain excluded. The crisis revealed the considerable gap between professional engagement and low remuneration. This situation is causing great frustration among excluded professionals and leads to departures and recruitment difficulties in institutions that are not eligible for upgrading. How can it be justified that two professionals performing the same work are not treated in the same way for the simple reason that one is employed in an establishment that depends on one community and the other in a state institution? It is necessary to go beyond the status issues and grant the salary revalorisation of Ségur to all professionals. Many institutions have also drawn our attention to the undesirable effects of this salary increase – I am thinking in particular of the impact on the so-called Fillon reduction or on the wage tax. We invite you to act from this PLFSS, because it should not be given by the Government with one hand, it takes it from the other. Fostering home care is also about safeguarding the SOS Médecins model. These doctors intervene every day, even during weekends and public holidays, to provide care for people who cannot travel. They are part of the solution to the congestion of hospitals and problems of access to the care of people far from any medical office in the under-density areas. Let's try to value these jobs because without them, we further distance the patient from the doctor. The role of wholesalers-partitioners is also fundamental. The health crisis has revealed to the public the importance of these men and women in the drug chain. However, it has been an activity under stress for years, and if we want to maintain this know-how, an efficient distribution and the 15,000 jobs in the sector, we must give ourselves the means to support these professionals. Measures have been incorporated into this PLFSS, but, while there was a particular modulation of the cold product tax, it does not appear to be included in the text. How do you intend to proceed, Minister? I also regret that our amendments to strengthen the right to forget about borrower insurance have once again been declared inadmissible. Today, people with cancer or chronic disease have to wait ten years to resume their lives and project themselves into the future. We wanted to reduce this deadline to five years. On autonomy, you finally abound the fifth branch, recently created and which, since its creation, had had no new funding. In particular, EUR 400 million will finance the floor price for home helpers and the recruitment of an additional 10000 health care workers in EHPAD within five years. We are far from the 8000 additional posts advocated by the Libault report. At this rate, we will only reach the 80000 positions in 2066! By following this path, how will we manage to meet the demographic challenge ahead? To meet this challenge, we will have to rely on a sustained birth rate, which is only declining from year to year. Family policy is clearly not your priority, since you are transferring a share of the income from the family branch to finance the branches of sickness and old age! We will introduce an amendment to correct this trajectory. Our group believes that we must accompany families with an ambitious family policy. Nothing is foreseen in this PLFSS to facilitate the lives of parents, while the birth rate has fallen free since 2015: while 800,000 babies were born in 2015, there were only 753,000 in 2019 and 736000 in 2020. These numbers must alert us! Not all young parents have access to maternity close to their home, they find it difficult to find a place in a crèche and they have to bear the high cost of the care that the infant demands, because the family allowances are conditioned by the household's resources. Family policy, however, is not a social minima policy: it is aimed at all French people, it invites everyone to start a family and accompanies them in this process. Our entire social protection system is based on a birth rate of more than two children per woman. In a system of national solidarity where the healthy contribute to the sick, where young people contribute to the elderly, where the active contribute to the unemployed and pensioners, how can you satisfy yourself with a country without births and therefore without assets? [[Thierry Benoit and Sylvia Pinel applaud]] In reality, our social model is currently financed by debt. How can we imagine that the sustainability of this model is based on the hope of low interest rates and on future generations? Can we go on like this? Our group believes that this is not a responsible management of public accounts and that it is time to initiate structural reforms for the sustainability of our social model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u135	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u136	Overseas countries, including Réunion, are experiencing an accelerated ageing of their populations. This is the opposite effect of the baby boom of the 1960s. Thus, in 2020, 19% of Reunions were over 60 years old, which is ten points more than 20 years ago. By 2050, a quarter of the population will be 60 years of age and over, and the number of people over the age of 75 will increase fourfold. Another finding is that dependency in overseas countries is early, and the dependency rate is three times higher than in metropolitan France. While this early dependency is multi-factorial – unemployment, poverty, alcoholism, the cost of life, inadequate housing – and known to all, the Government is dragging its feet in the fight against exclusions. However, you will agree that this is a public health issue. On the basis of this finding, social and professional responses must be provided, because it is a time bomb, and the challenges to be met are immense. To deal with this, in the coming years, we will need more professionals specialized in helping people, such as home helpers or family caregivers. Your government is showing very little consideration and recognition for these professions, which must become real public service trades, with a status that gives them regulatory working time and income that is commensurate with their work. Some of the persons concerned have only one hour per day to carry out household and food tasks, while others have to cumulate the number of beneficiaries. Every day, these people dedicate themselves to our elders and people with disabilities; Every day, they take care of difficult situations, especially when beneficiaries have behavioural disorders or a severe disability. Home help is a sector of the future and a pool of jobs in Réunion, due to the acceleration of population ageing and the early dependence of individuals. This sector of activity is becoming more important, as the needs are there; Unfortunately, it is unattractive. You need to improve the working conditions of the professionals concerned, because it is not only about their well-being at work but also about the quality of the care of the vulnerable publics they care for. You have also forgotten the nurses in our hospitals, who have been fighting for two years against the covid epidemic and thus saving lives. However, because of your fault, many of them were suspended from their duties because they refused to comply with the vaccination obligation. In La Réunion, this has been the case for seventy caregivers and two EHPAD staff, for whom your authoritarian decisions have had serious consequences. Do you have a minimum of recognition and respect for these people? I don't think so. As if the situation was not deplorable enough, you even choose to battling them in front of their workplace, as everyone could see in Martinique. The day you get out of your bubble and put yourself in the place of these people, maybe things can start to change! In addition to medical personnel, hospitals are also affected. Why don't you want to revalue La Réunion's geographical coefficient? You know as well as I do, the coefficient in force does not allow hospitals to cope with the burdens of remoteness, insularity, natural hazards and local social factors. The geographical coefficient is therefore no longer adapted to the reality of local costs. Nor does it take into account, for example, the movement of drugs and medical devices. The upgrading that we are asking for is a necessary condition for the establishments of La Réunion to settle permanently in the French hospital landscape as poles of excellence. It would allow the CHU – university hospital centre – of La Réunion to have the means adapted to the health of the families of the reunitees, but also to give more positive perspectives to the sick, the suffering, and the caregivers, who are suffering from difficult working conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Reunion and overseas in general are part of France. Yesterday, when examining the text on health vigilance, Minister Veran declared, with his hand on his heart, that he was on the side of the overseas countries. He's at his ease at the hypocrite ball, a ball where I won't be seen dancing! Overseas countries are still waiting for a social justice policy and see no lasting response in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u137	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u138	The last five-year social security financing law bears the stigma of decades of disorganisation and underfunding of our health system, which a health crisis of unprecedented intensity has worsened. Today, to say it in a few words, our health care system is like our caregivers: out of breath. We were ill prepared to go through a crisis like that of the covid -19 epidemic, but we held on. We have held through the dedication and self-denial of health personnel. I would like once again to express my deep gratitude to all the caregivers. We have also held through our social protection system, which is emerging from this crisis. So now we have to go to his bedside. This year, its deficit will reach more than 30 billion euros – and the trajectory anticipates a stagnant deficit of around 15 billion euros until 2025! These abyssal deficits call into question the sustainability of our social protection system. In addition to these concerns, there is uncertainty about a possible epidemic recovery. This hypothesis must not be ruled out, we would be wrong to think that the health crisis is the last of us. Also, our first question about this bill is about the extraordinary expenses associated with Covid. You only provide EUR 4.9 billion for 2022, compared to EUR 18 billion in 2020 and EUR 14 billion in 2021. This raises the following question, which applies to the entire PLFSS: are we ready? Whether it is access to care, support for autonomy and, more broadly, our solidarity policies, are we armed, equipped to face the challenges facing us? Nothing's less sure. First of all, access to care is becoming more difficult. The public hospital is at a breaking point. You are pleased to present us the "first PLFSS since 2007 without savings, even hidden, for the hospital". This is indeed to be welcomed, but it says a lot, after so many years of budgetary restrictions, which do not honor us. I also remember that last year, in the midst of a health crisis, 4 billion euros of savings were voted in the framework of the review of the PLFSS. So not to add this year was the minimum. In this context, measures of health safety were necessary, and we have said so. Unfortunately, they are still insufficient to boost the attractiveness of hospital occupations. They were also incomplete, and it was essential to correct the shot. I am of course thinking of the midwives, great forgotten of Segur. As of January, those practising in the hospital will receive a premium of 100 euros and a salary increase of about 100 euros gross per month. This falls short of their claims, which are legitimate in terms of the missions they carry out. Above all, this does not address issues related to their status in the hospital public service, which is experienced as a form of contempt for their qualifications and skills. It is no surprise, therefore, that there has been an increasing number of departures to the liberal sector and a lasting disaffection for the profession. I am also thinking of the forgotten agents and employees in the social and medico-social sectors. Again, too many professionals in the disability, home help and child protection sectors remain excluded. A response must be given, in conjunction with the departments. Moreover, I note that delays in the implementation of the revalorisations have been detrimental. Differences in treatment have led to distortions, between sectors or between institutions, depending on whether they are public or private, lucrative or not. To such an extent that departures have taken place, at the discretion of the negotiations, to the institutions concerned by the revalorisations. As a result, the recruitment crisis has never been so strong. At the public hospital, the shock of attraction expected after Segur did not occur. While the announcements have given rise to much hope, the daily lives of staff have unfortunately not really changed: practitioners and nurses continue to miss; beds and services continue to close; The operating rooms are running in slow motion. Large hospitals, which are usually attractive, also face shortages of staff. No less than 820 nursing positions are still in power for the AP-HP alone. In France, 30% of medical positions are vacant – yes, 30%! The situation is more than critical, and it is likely to worsen as out-of-school nursing school promotions are less important than previous ones. We are in the middle of a vicious circle: as a result of these departures, restructuring continues, as are savings and bed closures. As a result, the workload of staff increases, the ratio of nurses to patients deteriorates, leading to new departures. At this moment, pediatric emergencies are saturated, as we enter a period of bronchiolite epidemic. Children are then transferred to inadequate services due to a lack of places. We cannot accept a situation in which staff spend their time looking for beds for too many patients in understaffed services. In this context, a question arises as concerns rise from the ground: are you going to postpone the application of the decree governing the use of the medical interim, which is to come into force on October 27th? Unfortunately, we will not be able to defend the amendments by which we proposed that we guarantee a minimum number of caregivers per patient or a minimum number of beds corresponding to the needs of the territories: they were deemed inadmissible. Such ratios would, however, ensure patient safety and quality of care. I also want to stress the need to be vigilant about investment projects made possible by the resumption of hospital debt voted last year. These structuring projects must be aimed at improving the quality and proximity of care. Our group will defend amendments to this effect. This seems self-evident, but there are concerns on the ground. For example, in the Tarn-et-Garonne, the project to restructure the Montauban hospital centre, which is absolutely necessary, must not undermine the investment capacities and needs of the Castelsarrasin-Moissac intercommunal hospital centre, CHICM, nor, in the long run, its sustainability. We must ensure that hospital reorganisations do not lead citizens away from health care, forcing them to travel miles to treat themselves. More broadly, it is the issue of medical desertification that is concerned, and the answers provided are not sufficient. Unfortunately, in Occitanie, we know this phenomenon too well in rural areas, but also now in the city. Appointment times for generalists and specialists continue to grow longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u140	From this point of view, while the text includes welcome measures in favour of access to care, such as taking care of contraception up to 25 years of age or facilitating access to complementary health care, they provide only minimal responses to the phenomenon of medical desertification. The text's shortcomings are ultimately more numerous than its contributions. Thus, there are no new measures for psychiatry, while 30 per cent of the positions of practitioners are vacant. Today, psychiatry no longer attracts students, given the level of wages and deteriorating working conditions. Since 2020, the needs have been immense. We will not have an ambitious mental health plan by the end of the quinquennium, and we regret it. Nor can we be satisfied with the announcements by the President of the Republic concerning the reimbursement of psychologist consultations, which will be the subject of amendments by the Government on this text. These short-circuit the ongoing negotiations, without taking into account the expectations and concerns of the professionals. The routes proposed, putting the generalist at the heart of the device, are too heavy and inadequate for the needs of patients. The fees for consultations are too low to attract psychologists into the scheme. The experiments carried out so far have not convinced the professionals: only 5% of the eligible professionals participated. We are concerned that the proposed device is poorly calibrated and misses the goal of making psychology accessible to all. The other major challenge facing us, and on which the bill provides only some satisfactory answers, is support for self-reliance. The fifth branch remains an empty shell. In the absence of sufficient funding, it is already in deficit. We cannot base the financing of this branch on the CSG alone: this amounts to making employees and pensioners contribute mainly, which runs counter to the spirit of social security. We need new funding to deal with this risk of dependency, which will increase exponentially in the years to come. Our group will therefore again propose the introduction of a contribution on donations and estates over EUR 150000. But we already regret the legislative vehicle chosen. Devoting a few measures to it in a LFSS, instead of a large, dedicated law, reveals a financial logic to the detriment of an overall vision and a global policy of autonomy. Such a policy requires recognition of the trades: we have never lacked so many staff and the risk of breaking up accompaniment and care has never been greater. More than ever, we must pay attention to these connected trades, to those personnel who accompany the most vulnerable in their daily lives and whose dedication breaks the spiral of loneliness. How can we accept for a longer time this paradox, which consists of so ill-paying and so ill-recognizing jobs which are essential to the survival of our society, invisible, unconsidered and yet essential professions? Unfortunately, I fear that the measures contained in this bill are insufficient in relation to actual needs. Thus, you are announcing 10000 recruitments in five years, while the requirements are estimated at 200000, especially since no recruitment will be funded in 2022. You want to create a floor price of 22 euros for home help services: of which act, but it is lower than the cost, which is of the order of 25 euros, and this announcement will not suffice to revive the attractiveness of the profession. In this regard, we regret that the proposal for a "quality" supplement is made through amendments and we will propose that this floor tariff be re-aligned annually. Finally, you propose to increase to at least two days the time of presence of the coordinating physician in each EHPAD, whereas the texts already provide for this for all EHPADs of at least 45 places, the vast majority. Finally, I want to say a word about the positive measures contained in this text. We welcome the widespread use of the maintenance collection service, as well as the creation of a single information service at national level for the management of the personalised autonomy allowance. This is a first step in the fight against territorial inequalities. Our group welcomes the adoption by the committee of our amendment to include disability compensation, and we hope that this vote will be confirmed at the sitting. We also welcome the measures relating to the self-employed, but we will propose adjustments so that the status of working spouse can be retained beyond five years if it is subject to more secure contribution rules. Strong announcements were also needed in the field of medicines. Supply tensions and stock shortages have increased in recent years. The measures contained in the bill are in the right direction – I am thinking, for example, of taking into account the industrial footprint in the pricing of health products, which aims to encourage the relocation of their production to Europe. For our part, we will propose that the limit of stocks of medicinal products of major therapeutic interest should not be less than four months of coverage of needs, in order to limit loss of chances and interruptions of treatment. Madam and Deputy Ministers, I cannot deny the budgetary efforts made in this bill, given the limited room for manoeuvre that we have after two years of health and economic crisis. Nevertheless, it seems to us that at this stage the PLFSS for 2022 is more a project of renewal than a project of rupture, up to the expectations and challenges. We will make proposals to improve access to care, the funding of the public hospital and for a real policy of autonomy, but, as it stands, the Libertés et territoires group will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u141	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u142	"Take care of yourself! is an expression in vogue, a mark of attention and affection that concludes many encounters and exchanges for the past two years. But the care is not just an individual case, for which it would suffice to refer each and every one to his own responsibility: care is a political choice. No one can do without the care. Care, from birth, is vital to us. "The care," writes psychoanalyst Marie-José Del Volgo, "is everyone's business, it belongs to our democratic culture, that of living together, of solidarity, of the attention given to the most vulnerable among us. Care is also all that comes before, all attention, respect, the right environment creating the best conditions of physical, mental and social well-being. But without being at the heart of social life, is care really at the heart of our health care system? Our system is organized to produce acts, not to provide care. It is the production of acts that are valued and searched for. The care, which is difficult to quantify, comes too often to the background and this greatly contributes to the loss of sense felt by healthcare and accompaniment professionals. On the occasion of the inauguration of the associative cinema of my city of Martigues, I was able to see in preview the film La Fracture, by Catherine Corsini, which will be released in a few days. It allows us to spend an hour and a half in emergencies, in a situation of tension which, beyond the springs of dramatic comedy, makes us touch this reality. One discovers Kim, a nurse mobilized for her sixth night on duty, leaving aside her own problems to run from one patient to another, to wipe their anger, to take the time of a few gestures of attention in the midst of a great whirlwind. History does not say what it will do, but it is likely that it will be her last night in the emergency room, because she has not committed herself to it and that heroism is not a profession that can be accepted to practice every day. Do you hear the stories of these nurses, of these caregivers, of these auxiliaries of social life who tell of the obsession with the thoroughness of the actions to be done, of the codification of acts, of the protocolization of the care of patients, of the evaluation of efficiency, leaving so little room for the human relationship, without which the care vanishes? "To talk about invisible, repressed care, and those who practice it, is to make it sound what society loses not to recognize them at their fair value," wrote Marie-José Del Volgo. How can we not question the world of care as it results from the technical injunction and digital tracing, where depersonalisation is gaining ground as staff are lacking and their time is counted and counted? You have requested more than €4 billion in savings from the hospital since 2017. After you deny it, you admit it yourself, when you acknowledge that next year will be the first year without savings. But it is not by releasing a little pressure in this election year that you will have repaired the damage. The hospital is in crisis, a deep crisis, and the pandemic has come to further widen the gaps, pump the energies, erect the teams. You added to this a form of ill-treatment of staff, sent to coal without means at critical times, before finally being pointed with a comminatory finger to push them to vaccination, controlled even in their sickness stops and, for some, suspended, suggesting that they could very well be dispensed with their work without damage. For having visited a number of hospitals in the country in recent times, I can tell you that this has been an additional source of anger, regardless of the opinions on vaccination. He reminds me that last year you had been boasting of unprecedented efforts, combining the extra costs of pandemic management with the measures of Segur, while the trend of compression remained the rule. This year you will boast of a historic effort, the biggest of all time, of the whole world, of the whole universe, visible and invisible! The truth is, you have no choice, because we have gone beyond the breaking point, because anger is present on a daily basis. It would take much more than that to give the hospital a new impetus, for example, to enable it to cope with the right to palliative care. At this stage, it is no longer a matter of saving appearances: we must restore the urge of the hospital, re-energize the staff, and the staff in power, to the young people who are attracted to these professions. This starts with stopping the closures of beds, services and even hospitals. It is still 5700 beds that were closed in 2020, bringing the total majority to 13300 bed closures since 2017. This is in addition to the deterioration in the territorial supply of community hospitals. [[MM. Sébastien Jumel and Boris Vallaud applaud]] We have to stop this. The training and recruitment of hundreds of thousands of people for care and accompaniment occupations must be undertaken in the coming years; We have to open up places in the university. The abandonment of the numerus clausus, if it is replaced by the epic management of Parcoursup, does not solve the problems, making the numerus apertus a nullus numerus. I would particularly like to draw your attention to the psychiatry and child psychiatry sector, which is particularly affected, even though the psychiatric state of the country is aggravated by the health crisis and, again, there is a need for care, which the professionals in distress say they are prevented from practicing on a daily basis. Outrender protocolization, down from the necessary personalization of the care, supported by a simplistic and mechanistic recourse to neurosciences, and under the pressure of safe approaches, does not help the case. So what's the plan for psychiatry? You have chosen, with an unusually long delay of ignition, to extend the measures of Ségur to some of the forgotten, especially in the medical-social sector. Here, on several occasions, I had asked you that it was not tenable, that you should come and come there. Again, the choices you made have injured and sometimes caused harmful departures. But there are still forgotten ones, for example in institutions financed by the departments and not by social security, or on the part of psychologists, speech therapists, psychomotricians, educators, and staff of medical-psycho-pedagogical centres. I would add that these measures do not catch up with everything that has been lost and therefore do not account for it. This is what the midwives tell you in particular, who, irreplaceable, are requisitioned in turn. They are mobilized and call for the immediate opening of negotiations – and we with them. I could also talk about nurses and anaesthetists, who also ask for recognition of their qualifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u143	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u144	You don't end up being caught up in the real, and you hit it, as it is said, Lacan; You don't learn from it. Indeed, the sickness branch's revenues remain below their 2018 level, as it faces an explosion in its spending. There is a shortage of EUR 21 billion to cover health expenditure, the equivalent of the CICE, which consists of a reduction in employers' health insurance contributions. You insist on maintaining a system of massive exemptions, which has become the rule, and you refuse to consider new revenues to finance a response to the needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u145	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u146	Social security is facing a financing crisis. Exemptions amounted to €68 billion in 2021, i.e. 13% of social security revenues. They have doubled in five years, for a more than questionable economic result, while income inequality is increasing and tax havens are flourishing. That is why we proposed the introduction of an ONDEC – national contribution exemption expenditure target. Don't touch friends! Finally, you seem to consider all this to be life. The money that flows through tax havens, as the Pandora Papers have shown recently, is in the order of things, and the exemption from contributions is the pear for thirst.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u147	Don't touch the affluent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u148	Yet it was the time or never the time to involve the great owners, the finance and the most wealthy, who know nothing but to make their money. You could have misled your policy to deal with the crisis. That's nenni! You want to stay in the direction of the slope, you want to assume to the end, with Emmanuel Macron, this label of president of the rich. Thus, efforts always focus on expenditure alone. You know, however, that economic recovery will not be enough to cover the delta. You are presenting us with a budgetary imbalance which will probably be used in the future to impose further dark cuts in social protection. You are probably preparing the return of the tired and tiring ghost of the pension reform, which seems to haunt the corridors of power – and which you mentioned earlier, Minister Delegate. But you're not seriously planning the future. I want proof of this the renunciation of the great reform of autonomy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u149	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u150	... announced in 2017, then in 2018, then in 2019, then in 2020, then in 2021, then... nothing more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u151	We put ours in it, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u152	The few measures included in the budget are far from the needs identified in the Libault report. The 6% increase will be largely absorbed by the segur's revalorisations. The 10000 additional people in EHPAD are to be reported to the number of establishments: 7500. You present us with a trailer but we are not sure if you plan a feature film afterwards, especially since the branch will be 90% financed by the CSG – i.e. by employees and pensioners, employers contributing only 6%, through the contribution solidarity autonomy (CSA). This is evidence of a growing fiscalization of social security, as you reject our funding proposals. Finally, where is the great public service of the autonomy we need? The situation is critical for many people, their caregivers and their families. So, in our view, there is no reason to sing like a bird on the fifth branch. You are planning some measures for medicine. The period has informed us, if necessary, about the behaviour of big pharma and on the commodification of health which is spreading in this sector, with sometimes far-fetched profits and partly sponsored by social security. We can't leave this alone. Encouraging hospitals to produce drugs when they can in their pharmacies, provided they are truly empowered, is a good thing. The public focus of the drug we imagine is based on their capabilities. But we need to go further in this direction and we do not see this ambition poised, even as the large laboratories outsource while extending their grip. I would like to take this opportunity to mention the possibility of developing innovative biological drugs, such as CAR-Ts, by academic actors at much more reasonable costs than in laboratories. I would add that there is a need for a strong commitment to another vision of patents. The choice – finally! – to introduce a criterion for the location of production in price fixing is a measure of common sense, which we have defended, together with others, for a long time. Here again, the palette should be supplemented and more action taken in the face of shortages. By the way, the decree on transparency concerning public aid to laboratories is very inadequate. Finally, I hope that you will agree to tax short liners that are placed on specific segments to achieve margins. We have to say our own questions about decisions concerning the use of orthoptists, a subject on which consultations have not been successful; the risk of two-speed medical expertise cannot be established. We also see the proliferation of dental or optical centres which have an industrial practice of medical procedures, far from any logic of care, care, follow-up. In a word, they slaughter for profit. Madam Chair of the Committee, you yourself have seen not only useless but mutilating acts in some of these centres; They play a role in the vulnerability of some patients and in the overhang that can sometimes be imparted by medical knowledge. As the public reaction is not there, you have tabled an amendment to remedy it. These abuses stem from the commodification of health and, while collective practice – particularly that of health centres – must be supported, financial logics are simply to be banished. On the one hand, appropriate regulatory and control tools must be developed, and on the other hand, the real health centres linked to municipalities, the mutual movement and the public hospital service should be better encouraged. Finally, I would like to refer to the situation of many services and hospitals which are being implemented to combat the abuse of medical intervention. Is it useful to point out that we do not very much like this expensive system, which leads to wage inequalities that cannot be defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u153	We have to find a solution anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u154	But returns from the ground are worrying because many services find a flight from the interim which sometimes forces them to close their doors due to lack of staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u156	While the crisis is still there and its effects on staff are overwhelming, was this measure really absorbable today, as it is? A few months ago, we discussed the forms and alerted them to the difficulties that could result. For example, the public cap on penalties does not apply to the private sector. For example, obligations do not take into account the state of tension and deficiency, even though health requires an obligation of means. For example, the activity of temporary workers in this area is not regulated. I had tabled three amendments to discuss this serious problem which we must take action against, and which is well within the framework of the PLFSS: they were declared inadmissible. However, we must take advantage of this discussion to try to measure the state of affairs and deal with the situation. By regretting the conditions that led to a narrow debate, we will naturally support the positive measures while regretting that there are no more, given the seriousness of the situation – I am thinking in particular of medical deserts. Among these measures, I want to mention the extension of free contraception up to 25 years, the creation of pension rights for self-employed persons during periods when the co-vid has affected their activity, or easier access to complementary health care. But the relative broadness of the election period is not enough to drive the necessary changes in direction, nor to make up for the damage already caused by your policy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on several SOC benches]] Madam Minister Delegate, Minister Delegate, all the more so since the project you are presenting to us does not do as it should, I will end by saying to you simply: take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u157	Bravo! How good it is, this Pierre Dharréville...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u158	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u159	We are here today to review the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the PLFSS of the commitments made! The commitment, first of all, to support the health system and the hospital, with a dynamic ONDAM: if it increased by 6.7% in 2021, excluding expenditure related to the health crisis, it will increase further by 3.8% in 2022, with in particular an increase of 4.1% for the hospital – the largest increase in more than 10 years. This increase strengthens financial support for health care institutions to prepare for the future. New funding for the hospital will be €3.7 billion in 2022. This choice is in line with a strong commitment by the Government to provide financial support to health facilities in the aftermath of the crisis, in addition to the $19 billion planned for 10 years of hospital investment. This PLFSS is also the commitment made to continue the work of the Ségur, with 2 billion euros dedicated to the revalorisation of wages. It is still a commitment to improve access to care – including visual care, which is currently suffering from significant disparities. As such, it is proposed that orthoptists be able to perform visual checks without prior medical prescription, and to prescribe appropriate visual aids. We safeguard patient safety with the adoption of an amendment by the rapporteur-general in committee, providing that consultation with an ophthalmologist will be necessary within five years. We are also improving access to care through amendments that I have defended and which have been adopted in committee, aimed at experimenting with direct access to massage therapists and speech therapists in the context of coordinated care. This will help to avoid delays in care and free up medical time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u160	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u161	This PLFSS is also a commitment to prevention. It provides for the generalization of proven experiments, such as the "Find Your Cape" mission, entrusted to health centres and homes to accompany overweight children and thus fight obesity, or the experiment "In the lab without an ordo", which allows patients to perform HIV testing in a non-prescription laboratory, the test being fully covered by the health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u162	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u163	It is still a matter of prevention, when the PLFSS provides for the full management of contraception for women up to 25 years of age. The period from 18 to 25 years corresponds to a transition to working life, during which the economic situation is often more fragile and coverage by a poorer health supplement. This is why the PLFSS extends the free use of contraception, which so far only concerned minors. This will enable 3 million women to benefit from this care. Together with the La République group on the move, we will defend the extension of the comprehensive care of the long-term "sexual health" consultation for boys, up to the age of 25. Finally, this PLFSS reinforces the commitments of the President of the Republic in the framework of the Strategic Council of Health Industries. By better financing and making them more accessible throughout the country, it will help to develop therapeutic innovations. Industry will benefit from an additional EUR 1 billion in investment to foster innovation and encourage the relocation of pharmaceutical production. For its part, the working Republic Group will propose to better evaluate the effectiveness of these innovations by making greater use of real-life data; It will also propose a stronger sanction for shortline wholesalers, i.e. those who do not comply with their public service obligations, in order to discourage and eliminate these practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u164	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u165	We will also support, together with the Government and other majority groups, the social security coverage of the psychologist's sessions, announced by the President of the Republic on the basis of mental health and psychiatry. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM Group, as well as on the panels of the commissions]] Ladies and gentlemen, this ambitious, forward-looking PLFSS will therefore continue to reform our health system by focusing on innovation, prevention and improved access to care: it will be the budget for the commitments made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u166	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u167	After four disappointing social security financing laws, the yellow vest crisis – the shadow of which continues to hover with rising energy and fuel prices – the regular demonstrations of caregivers and an unprecedented health crisis, the last five-year social security budget offered the opportunity to catch up with all past shortcomings: we hoped for it at least. However, it is not up to our expectations, even if a number of measures are in the right direction. Let's look at the numbers first. While the social security deficit this year will be less severe than expected, thanks to the combined effects of the exit from the health crisis and the economic recovery, however, it remains abyssal; No solid funding plan is planned to address it. This can only mean one thing: over and over again, we generate debt, which will weigh on future generations. Thus, by postponing from 2024 to 2033 the extinction of the CADES, financed by the CSG and the CRDS, you increase the taxes of the French for another nine years! Jean-Pierre Door spoke very well on this subject of time bomb, of non-financing of measures and, finally, of credit care. Beyond these legitimate accounting considerations, this budget does not provide for the structural reforms we expected. While the health crisis has highlighted the importance of supporting the most vulnerable, the financial measures remain far from the big bang desired by the players in the sector. After many reports on the issue, after the appointment of a deputy minister responsible for autonomy, here, and of which I welcome the will, the addiction law promised for three years now will never be presented; You never stopped reporting her, despite her urgency. Helping our elders to live in dignity, rethinking their autonomy, must be a major concern in the social pact. It is not 10000 additional caregivers for 7500 EHPAD, or a third more time per institution per year, who will provide support in the dignity of elderly people who are losing their autonomy. It is essential to promote a new vision of ageing. We need to strengthen prevention throughout life, encourage home care, invent intermediate housing solutions so that the medical facility becomes the last resort, support the personal services sector, make its many non-relocable jobs more attractive; In short, to adapt society as a whole, in a positive way, to the ageing of the population. That's what we're waiting for! With regard to the medico-social sector, neither the extension to midwives and caregivers of the Ségur de la Santé agreements nor the upgrading of home support can substitute for genuine substantive reforms. The financial means certainly have the merit of existence, but they do not solve everything: the caregivers demand more consideration, career prospects, better working conditions. Deputy Minister, Minister Delegate, I am convinced that you are hearing the demands of associations faced with an unprecedented shortage of professionals, with serious consequences for the support of people with disabilities, whether in institutions or at home. Working conditions are deteriorating, in particular because of the lack of recognition and upgrading of the jobs concerned, so that resignations increase in general indifference. Among the shortcomings of the bill is also the absence of measures concerning pensions: a reform that is further relegated to the programme of the future candidate for the presidency of the Republic. I would also like to address the fate of families, who are the losers of this budget. The disruption of our family policy continues. As the number of births has collapsed since 2014, you have reduced the early childhood care benefit (YECP) by 8.5% and unindexed family benefits, without restoring the universality of benefits. The measures taken with regard to maintenance and the recent extension of paternity leave are not sufficient. We need to raise the ceiling of the family quotient to 3000 euros, raise benefits to the level of inflation every year, extend the tax credit for childcare expenses until the child's 12th birthday, reform parental leave. Family policy is an investment for the future; We must offer stronger answers! With regard to the organization of our health care system, we measure the extent of the needs, and how much each territory needs to be taken into account. Shouldn't a regional health insurance expenditure target, the ORDAM, be introduced in order to set out the broad guidelines laid down by the State? Should we not have a new act of decentralization of our health policy, with a view to giving priority to proximity to regions and other communities promoted to the rank of true partners, which would make it possible to adapt our responses? The Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, for example, would be ready to work with you, Minister Delegate, as part of a co-governance with the regional health agency (ARS), whose effectiveness I welcome in passing. Isn't it our goal that everyone finds the right care close to home and at the right time? In conclusion, this budget is unfortunately based, like the previous one, on new debts and random estimates. As far as progress is concerned, do they really have nothing to do with certain political perspectives? I am aware, Madam Minister Delegate, Minister Delegate, that you are not responsible for everything, that the health crisis is certainly not your fault: that is why I expect a lot of consideration of the text at the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u168	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u169	I heard earlier that this PLFSS was "looking for the future": as far as I'm concerned, I'll just look at the present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u171	What the present teaches us is that health inequalities persist. The preventable mortality rate of men is twice as high in the Hauts-de-France and Brittany as in Île-de-France; The life expectancy of the most affluent 5 per cent exceeds that of the poorest 5 per cent by 13 years. The gaps are even greater between Hexagon and the ultramarine territories, in particular La Réunion, which experienced even before the covid serious health crises: chikungunya, Zika virus, chlordecone, regular dengue offensives. The Pittet report of 18 May 2021, the result of an independent national mission on the assessment of the management of the covid-19 crisis and the anticipation of pandemic risks, made proposals in this regard, starting with the revision of the "pandemic" plan. In the island environment, the issue of stockpile management is of paramount importance. At the height of the epidemic – as you know, Madam Deputy Minister – we have created great concerns about the supply of oxygen to our hospitals. Medical presence is also a problem overseas, where it can be difficult, if not impossible, to access a professional: there are incentives to take. Doctors, nurses, social workers are needed in national education, prevention, protection! The well-being of schooled youth is necessary for learning. We are in 2021, and the question of the geographical coefficient remains outstanding: I greet Olivier Serva and David Lorion, whose report – he is not the only one – has demonstrated the need to revalue it. Moreover, asking for this revalorisation is not asking for alms, since this coefficient is simply used to compensate for the extra costs incurred by ultramarine hospitals. Thus, before the crisis, the cubic metre of oxygen cost 0.50 euros to a CHU of Hexagon, compared to 3.16 euros to Réunion. We are still waiting for you to comply with the provisions of the Social Security Financing Act for 2020, which required the Government to submit a report to Parliament on this matter. Our health systems remain fragile: you know that very well. According to a 2019 survey, one in ten Reunions rated themselves in poor or very poor health. Recently, the application of the so-called Lurel law of 3 June 2013, concerning the sugar content of foods sold in ultramarine territories, has come back in the news. If French overseasers absorb more sugar and salt than others, it is not by cultural tradition: the major agri-food manufacturers, more concerned with their profits than with the health of consumers, continue to inundate our businesses with products harmful to health. The consequences: overweight, obesity, with all that this implies on a daily basis. There is twice as much diabetes in Réunion as in metropolitan France. Because of the lack of prevention and promotion of health measures, many families are faced with heavy treatment, which unfortunately does not always prevent amputations or dangerous comorbidities, for example during the covid epidemic. On the other hand, in these and many other territories, mental health has for too long remained the poor parent of public health. In this regard, I welcome the efforts resulting from the foundations of mental health and psychiatry: they respond in part – I say in part – to the demands we have been making for years. We also continue to face difficulties in establishing death certificates. Unfortunately, it is not a surprise: we have made a proposal other than the one you have retained. The hours, the days of cruel waiting for the families of the deceased, forced to make repeated calls on the local radios, continue. On the other hand, we welcome the free availability of female contraception for adults under 25 years of age, which will reduce the number of early pregnancies – on average less than 2 per cent of births at the national level, almost 6 per cent in Réunion, 10 per cent in Guyana or Mayotte. Moreover, this measure will not be sufficient: we must amplify the means of prevention, as the réunionnais Vue-Belle high school does. The PLFSS is also for the ultramarine territories the transformation of the economic aid granted in 2019. The deputies of the Socialist and related group – but not only – want to integrate the building and public works into the law of 27 May 2009 for the economic development of overseas, known as LODEOM. It is about strengthening a sector whose situation in 2019 was already the worst it has experienced in a decade. Even if temporary, this tool would favour businesses and thus local jobs, infrastructure, especially the rehabilitation and construction of housing. Moreover, the plans for the discharge of tax and social debts provide for an too short period of time: 36 months. Given the difficulties already identified at the end of 2019, it should be extended, both for our businesses and our jobs in territories with a much higher unemployment rate than in metropolitan France – half of the Réunions between the ages of 18 and 25 are neither employed nor in training, the same situation as ten years ago – as for social organizations and the State. In the interest of all, we hope that you will be in favour of this measure. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We have therefore tabled a number of amendments, most of the time without much hope, but with determination, in order to make the voice of oceanic France heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u172	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u173	Of course, the covid and the health crisis worsened the situation, but our hospitals and our health system had not waited for this particular context to give the alert. You planted a few trees – you must recognize it –, probably hoping that they would hide the forest from a policy of austerity that continues, even as it led us to the present disaster. In March 2020, the President of the Republic served us his famous "health has no price": it must be noted that there is no world after, that you continued on your path by closing in 2020, at the height of the pandemic, 5700 beds in hospitals. In total, the quinquennium will result in the removal of 14,000 beds, a reasonable contribution to the 100,000 bed closures over the past 20 years. You promised us a spectacular ONDAM: it is programmed around 2.4% a year, while the annual evolution of care expenses is naturally around 4%. In the autonomy sector, only a quarter of the estimated minimum needs are funded. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] The few measures announced can only disappoint, especially after the abandonment – which we regret – of the text devoted to the old age. Nor have you learned any lessons from the crisis in the area of health sovereignty: in the absence of a profound transformation of the drug industry, nothing should stop the dynamics of shortages. We cannot endure any longer to see the health system deteriorate, despite the remarkable self-denial of its staff. No, social security is not just a deficit to be controlled in order to meet the requirements of the European Commission! In so far as this is the last PLFSS of the quinquennium, it is necessary not only to take stock of it, but also to denounce the austere prospects for the next. Despite an apparent increase in resources due to a decline in covid -19 expenditures, the health care system remains breathless and the austere logic continues. Segur's agreements are far from sufficient to compensate for decades of organized breakdowns in the public hospital: the salary increases awarded do not even compensate for ten years of freezing the index point. We've announced 15,000 recruitments, but it's actually just 7,500 new jobs. The remuneration of nurses remains 10% lower than the European average, as is that of caregivers still ranked eighteenth among OECD countries. You are announcing 19 billion euros of investments in the Ségur de la santé, of which 3.2 billion in 2022 but, once again, the devil is hiding in the details: these 19 billions integrate the 13 billion already announced in November 2019. The Segur will, in fact, have added only 6 billion. Above all, this investment is planned for a period of ten years. By comparison, the hospital plan for the period 2007-2012 and 2012-2017 had about 10 billion each, or 20 billion over 10 years. Thus, in reality, there is a decrease from the commitments made before 2017. These 19 billion include restructuring projects that go in the direction of breaking the public hospital, with its batch of bed closures. There is a chronic shortage of caregivers in the country: 100,000 positions are reportedly vacant in public and private hospitals, and 26 per cent of the positions of hospital practitioners are not filled. The Government is preparing for austerity in the coming years. The growth of ONDAM, in particular, is expected, excluding covid-19, to fall sharply, from 6.6% to 3.8% – a decrease of 42% in 2022 – and to 2.4% in 2023, as a result of the end of the Segur-related measures. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and a few benches of the GDR group]] On the other hand, the common future we are calling for is to rebuild the health system, to launch a multi-year plan for the recruitment of doctors, nurses, caregivers and administrative staff; It aims to abolish the national health insurance expenditure target, raise wages and improve the working conditions of all staff, fill the medical deserts and end the bed cuts that continued at the heart of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u174	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u175	We are looking at the last bill for the financing of social security in the legislature, after a health crisis of unprecedented intensity. Social security has taken its full part in the crisis, fully assuming its role as a social shock absorber, which has protected the country from both economic disruption and social catastrophe. The measures taken were necessary and indispensable. This situation explains that today we are facing a sustainable fiscal trajectory. If, in 2021, the social security balance is lower than expected, thanks in particular to a smaller fall in the private sector's wage bill, and if the forecast deficit for 2022 is EUR 21.6 billion – down one third from the previous year – a lasting deficit of EUR 15 billion will affect the accounts in the coming years. If the autonomy branch, with this PLFSS anchoring more, suffers a slight deficit over the first two years, the projections at this stage indicate a forecast surplus from 2024, which will allow it to keep its promises: those to meet personal needs, to initiate the transformation of the model and to ensure that the risk of loss of autonomy is managed, provided, however, that the years ahead lay the foundation for the legislation necessary for this policy and that the commitment to support the autonomy that we have begun continues and expands. In this context, we propose a responsible budget text that draws lessons from the crisis, pursues our commitments and defends measures that meet the expectations of the field. I will quote just a few to illustrate this bill. We are continuing the unification of the networks for the collection of contributions and social contributions, which has structured actions since 2017, with the integration of the former social system of the self-employed, by transferring to the USSRAF this year the recovery of the contributions of the Inter-Professional Fund of Provident and Health Insurance, which concerns liberal professionals. In order to eliminate household cash advances, we also introduce the immediate collection of social and tax aid from 2022 for personal services, with an extension in 2023 to the beneficiaries of the APA and the PCH, then, in 2024, for child care activities. In order to improve the cash flow of self-employed workers, we introduce real-time calculation of social contributions and contributions and remove the increase for underestimation of income. In addition, we open the right to co-workers' status and propose the redemption of retirement quarters under certain conditions. These are new social rights that mostly affect women. In addition, by way of an amendment, the Group of the Republic on the move will suggest extending some of these measures to non-employed agricultural workers. In the case of non-employed agricultural workers and family workers, we will propose the same flat-rate daily allowance for maternity or paternity leave as for heads of farms. This is a measure of social equity. We will also defend the abolition of the wage share of the fire pay for firefighters, an amendment widely supported in committee on all benches. Thus, through our last two social security financing laws, the latter will see their remuneration increase by 150 euros net per month. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I welcome the support for autonomy clearly stated in this text, particularly in favour of home care. Allow me, however, to share here a few concerns which, I know, you are sensitive about the employees of individual employers: those 280,000 assistants and life assistants, so present before, during and after the crisis, which we need so much but which we are not talking about. I very much hope that the examination of this text will enable them to be given the opportunity, if not an immediate legislative existence, at least a commitment to take account of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u176	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u177	No less than 21.6 billion: this is the amount of the projected social security deficit for the year 2022. A deficit adopted in the Council of Ministers on 7 October, which does not seem to be worrying to the Government, since it welcomed in committee, through the voice of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the presentation of a budget to overcome the health crisis. You're posting this deficit as good news, as it falls from 2021 and 2020. But we would like to know how you intend to finance it. In just three fiscal years, social debt is growing by almost 100 billion euros! While some expenditure directly related to the health crisis should logically fall in 2022 – mainly on vaccines and tests – we are entitled to worry about the increase in ordinary expenditure and structural debt, further deepened by the Segur. Of course, the exercise is difficult: how can we combine, with a few months of the presidential election, the guarantees to be given to the health actors, without however falling into an electoral clientelism that is too obvious? What lessons can be learned from this fildefériste exercise? First, that structural reforms, which are supposed to change the substance of our health system, are not there. Yet, after having been tested by more than 18 months of health crisis, three confinements and a breathless health system, the French were entitled to expect a little more. And this small plus is not just a raise in wages, even if, for midwives in particular, the gesture was necessary pending urgent revision of the status of their profession, as I propose in one of my amendments. So where are the bold and structural measures needed to thoroughly reform the health system and make it able to withstand new epidemics or other health phenomena that are still unknown? It should be remembered that in 2020, in the middle of the covid period -19, 5700 hospital beds were abolished, while at the same time we were told that we had to open another 12,000 in resuscitation to deal with the crisis. According to DREES, 25 public and private institutions closed last year, as a result of reorganizations and restructurings. But that is not all: the phenomenon of shortage of caregivers reaches a cataclysmic dimension in some hospitals. Between ras-le-bol and exhaustion of the teams, this bottom blade affects with full whip nurses and caregivers, beating heart of our health system. I'm not even talking about medical deserts for which we still haven't found a solution. I do not resist the desire to remind you of the response of the Minister of Health when, in 2017 already, I asked for the deletion of the numerus clausus to compensate for the shortage of doctors in France: "Mme Ménard, you say nonsense! Two years later, you became clear and finally embarked on this reform, which will unfortunately take ten years before its first effects can be achieved. How not to regret also the blindness of the Government – your blindness – to the issue of social fraud. The alarm bell has already been fired, whether thanks to the work of magistrate Charles Prats, Senator Nathalie Goulet or, in the National Assembly, of MP Pascal Brindeau. I have tabled amendments which could lead to savings, aimed at proposing concrete measures and putting an end to this massive fraud: the ball is on your side! While your Government announced – it was time! – a national plan for the development of palliative care and end-of-life support, amounting to EUR 171 million...,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u178	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u179	...only 5 million will be committed in 2021. However, this is a sensitive but compelling issue, which required an immediate and committed response. It is regrettable to have to wait again: this was the moment or never! As for the fifth branch of social security, the autonomy branch, we do not know how it will be financed: it is even apparently already in deficit. In addition, you gave up the old-age and self-governing bill. The election of the next President of the Republic is likely to take place once again in order to tackle this burning issue. In short, you're presenting us with an end-of-term, camouflage budget. Moreover, you do not take any account of the opposition's proposals. The figures speak for themselves: about 60% of our amendments have been declared inadmissible! Another missed budget date. Yet, can we afford it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u180	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u181	My speech was written: I was going to speak to you with tenderness and emotion, as a feminist humanist, of Annie, Sylvie, Fatima, Martine and Isabelle, auxiliaries of life in Picardie, Normandy and Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u182	You do it every time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u183	I was going to tell you about their love of the profession, their pride in being, for the elderly, a ray of sunshine, a link to life until the last moments. I was going to talk to you, too, about their frustration at sometimes doing their job wrong, their feeling of mistreating, their eye riveted on the clock. I'm thinking of that pee that Annie was feeding with a spoon, and that wanted to talk to her between two bites; But time was pressing and Annie looked at her watch, until the wrong road that sent a sip into the lungs rather than into the stomach: "What am I doing, what am I doing? ", asked Annie. I was going to tell you about the extended schedules of these living aids, from early in the morning, to open Daniel's shutters, get him out of bed, wash him and serve him breakfast, until late in the evening, to return to the same Daniel's house, close his shutters and put him in bed. I was going to tell you about false part-time work, but real part-time wages: 682 euros on average, according to the ministry responsible for labour. These living aids are poor workers: most – almost all – are below the SMIC and below the poverty line. I was going to tell you about our willingness, together with Bruno Bonnell and other Members of Parliament from all sides, to give them access to an organization on tour, as the home care workers practice, with a team in the morning, from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., a team in the afternoon, from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m., and, if necessary, a night shift. Thus, they would move from false part-time work – but with real part-time wages – to full-time work with full wages, paid at least at the minimum wage. I was going to talk to you, of course, about Emmanuel Macron's statements at the heart of the covid crisis: "We must also remind ourselves that our country, today, is holding on to women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. » I was going to tell you about the political stake: to respond to the crisis of the covid, of course, to reward those who held the country standing, but also to respond to the crisis of the yellow vests: who was found, in the feminine, on the roundabouts? Kindergarten assistants, maintenance workers, specialized territorial officers in kindergartens (ATSEM), but also a very large number of auxiliaries of life. I was going to tell you about the obvious demographic issue: millions of baby boomers become papy boomers. If you want to keep the elderly at home, as you say, it will take hundreds of thousands of Annie, Sylvie and Martine, everywhere, in our villages and in our cities. I was going to talk to you about a company project: tomorrow, where will the progress come from? Will it still come from technology, large infrastructure and the 5G phone connected to the smart fridge, which warns Carrefour Market when there are no more olives? Is progress not now dependent on the quality of the bonds, relationships and care we devote to our children, our patients and our elders? I was going to talk to you about all this, but this speech, I erased it when I saw that you were coming to this gallery with 240 million euros and your airs satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u184	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u185	Two hundred and forty million, in this draft budget: how dare you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u186	How dare you say that, Mr. Ruffin?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u187	How dare you? Twenty-eight euros per living aid per month, and 240 million! Last week, the President of the Republic announced 30 billion for the France 2030 plan – 30 billion for nuclear power, 30 billion for robotics, 30 billion for start-ups, 30 billion for technology. There you find them, the billions! Every year, you find tens of billions for the CICE, the ISF – the solidarity tax on wealth – and the flat tax! But for the human, for these women, all of whom, here – I am sure – we will declare, with their hands on their hearts, that they are essential and indispensable, that they are doing a great job, for their wages of misery and their lives of pain, you are proposing only millions – the crumbs of the feast of which your friends repaint themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u188	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u189	For them, this is the end of the great law on autonomy, announced five times, postponed five times, and now cancelled until the end of the mandate. For them, you're just doing some DIY, some refitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u190	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u191	Yet it is also here, France of 2030. "Social distinctions can only be based on common utility," promised Emmanuel Macron in full confinement. In view of the usefulness of Annie, Martine and Sylvie, and in view of our usefulness to us here, it is you, Madam Deputy Minister, and it is we, ladies and gentlemen, who should live on 682 euros a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u192	I know what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u193	So, I am convinced, things would change quickly: you would immediately pass big laws and launch big plans of tens of billions. It would rain billions, if it were you, Madam Deputy Minister, if it were me, or if it were our fellow Members who had to live on 682 euros a month!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u194	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u195	The PLFSS for 2022 bears much of the stigma of the health crisis that we have experienced, and that we are still suffering. After last year's creation of a fifth branch dedicated to autonomy, it initiates a change in the model of support for older people, long awaited by professionals in the sector and by elected officials, but also, and above all, by citizens – societal reform if it is. The PLFSS chapter on autonomy includes flagship measures to take the home turn, with France being the most backward European country in this area. It provides for the restructuring of home support services and guarantees their best financing throughout the country. By introducing a basic tariff for aid and support services – 22 euros per hour of intervention – and a supplementary quality allocation of 3 euros, this PLFSS finally takes note of what has been demanded by all for years – we can be happy about that. Since the policy of accompanying older persons is a decentralized competence of the departmental councils, it is marked, for various reasons, by great territorial inequalities, which we cannot be satisfied with. In the PLFSS for 2021 and in the PLFSS for 2022, the State takes responsibility for accompanying the departments, by providing them with substantial funding, aimed at reducing the disparities in treatment between home services and between the elderly themselves. As far as EHPADs are concerned, the text provides for the creation of a new territorial resource centre mission: it is not in any case a question of establishing any hierarchy between institutions and services at home, on the contrary; EHPAD must open up, and professionals must work together, for the benefit of the elderly. The health crisis has demonstrated this: only the dismantling of health and medical-social actors will create a true path of health and life for people who are growing in age. On behalf of the La République on the move, I tabled several amendments in the Committee on Social Affairs, all aimed at greater territorial equality and greater collaboration among all professionals in the geriatric sector, in the interest of the elderly and their families. In this sense, I will defend an experiment, which will allow the directors of the regional health agency to create, in each department, a platform to support medical and social institutions and services for the elderly as well as liberal health professionals, in order to help them organise a quality health path for the elderly. In addition, we will collectively support an amendment on the quality allocation of 3 euros, which is an essential additional financing for the 22 euros of the floor price for home services. As for my colleague Mireille Robert, she will propose to extend the experiment devoted to the respite of caregivers. Finally, our group will support the amendment which provides for the testing of the professional card for home helpers. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, also applauds]] The PLFSS is, of course, a budget text, but it has the merit of introducing important and much-anticipated measures. For my part, I regret the lack of measures – and beyond, a genuine policy – to prevent the loss of autonomy; I wanted to integrate this essential mission into the actions financed by the quality allocation, without success at the moment. I have no doubt that France's considerable delay in this matter will be caught up in the near future, as it is one of the major concerns of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u196	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-21-O1023.u197	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022. The meeting is adjourned.
