ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020 (No. 4090, 4195).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u3	From the past year 2020, which we are looking at today's implementation of the budget, we draw three lessons and inherit a challenge. First education: faced with a historical crisis, the state is able to respond massively and urgently. It has also adapted its support to changing needs. Second education: State aid has been effective in supporting households, businesses and local communities. The third lesson: the serious management of the Government, the orientations of the majority and the efforts undertaken since 2017 made it possible to respond to the crisis. Our challenge now is to preserve the growth of the economy while ensuring the sustainability of our public finances. The economic shock we experienced – a 7.9% decline in gross domestic product (GDP) – is historic. Above all, it is the direct consequence of the measures we have taken together to protect the French from the virus. As early as 18 March 2020, the Government presented you with a first draft of an emergency amending finance bill (PLFR). PLFR 1 was promulgated only five days after it was tabled, demonstrating particularly tight deadlines for Parliament's consideration. It is an opportunity for me to recall the spirit of harmony and responsibility that has collectively animated and brought us together at the time of this brutal ordeal. The first amending finance law was an opportunity to create three support schemes now well known to our compatriots, which have been gradually adapted and supplemented by three other amending finance laws and numerous laws or regulations. Thanks in particular to the vigilance of parliamentarians and the action of the State services, the support provided has been improved to take account of sectoral, regulatory or geographical specificities. Let's start with the partial activity device. Taking into account the lessons of past crises – notably that of 2009 – we have chosen to propose to Parliament a very generous system of compensation, capable of preserving in companies the skills necessary for the resumption of activity. Thus, since the beginning of the crisis, partial activity has amounted to a total of almost 35 billion euros, of which 26.3 billion euros in 2020. Of this amount, $17.8 billion has been disbursed since the State budget, and the rest since UNEDIC. At the height of the crisis, in April 2020, 1 million companies made use of the partial activity scheme for more than 8 million employees. The second mechanism, as well known, is the Solidarity Fund. First of all, short-term safety nets for very small businesses, we turned them into massive support for all companies affected by the health crisis. Since its inception, the fund has already contributed €30.5 billion in response to more than 9.6 million requests from 2.2 million companies, including €11.8 billion and €6.3 million in 2020. In the vast majority of cases, the deadline for payment of aid was three days. I thank the administrations of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery – the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP), in particular – which have shown exceptional responsiveness and unwavering commitment to establish, drive and adapt the fund, of which there were no fewer than eleven versions in 2020, not to mention cousin schemes such as stock subsidies or the taking over of fixed costs. Third main scheme: State-guaranteed loans (GLP). You have agreed to give companies the opportunity to borrow by benefiting from repayment conditions that have been gradually relaxed. More than half of the companies in the most affected sectors used it. A third of the companies contracted an EMP, for a total of 137 billion euros at the end of May 2021. Many other forms of state support have complemented the aid portfolio, such as tax and social carry-overs, exemptions from social contributions, payment aid and the exceptional strengthening of the State's financial participation. If at any time we have no money to finance these devices, it is because we have shown foresight. In view of the extreme uncertainty in which we found ourselves, we have proposed that you should allocate sufficient funds to deal with a possible worsening of the health crisis. The level of appropriations carried over from 2020 to 2021 has legitimately raised questions for several Members, but also for the Court of Auditors. Our objective was to ensure the financing of emergency measures while informing Parliament with sincerity: I say it forcefully, it has been achieved, and that is what is essential. We never took the risk of running out of cash at a time when we had to support businesses and the French. The crisis has severely affected the economy, but it can be seen that the aid provided by the State during 2020 and since the beginning of 2021 has been effective. Effective for the purchasing power of the French, first of all, which increased by 0.4% in 2020, while the production of wealth collapsed. We also note that income subject to withholding tax – mainly wages and pensions – was 3.5% higher in 2020 than in 2019, and this increase has accelerated since the beginning of 2021. Effective, too, to save businesses: while since 2017, we have counted between 50,000 and 55,000 bankruptcies per year, there are less than 30,000 bankruptcies in the last 12 months. However, we continue to follow closely the evolution of the number of defects. Effective, finally, to preserve local and regional authorities. The need for local government funding is only €1.2 billion at the end of 2020, when it is €137 billion for the state and social security. In short, these aids have been effective in preparing for the rebound which the French economy is clearly capable of. It is because we have re-established fiscal space since 2017 that we have been able to introduce it: I would remind you that in 2019, the public deficit, which amounted to 2.2% of GDP, given the impact of the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE) was the lowest we had seen since 2001. And, for the first time since 2007, the public debt ratio had declined in 2018. At the same time, the Government has fulfilled its commitments by proposing tax cuts to the French parliament: the rate of compulsory levies fell by 1.3 percentage points between 2017 and 2019. Without the fiscal seriousness we collectively demonstrated before the start of the crisis, we would not have been able to react during the crisis as strongly and effectively as we did – I stress this point. That is why – and I will end with that – we are facing a challenge today: the state budget in 2020, which the government is proposing to approve today, has a budget deficit of 178.2 billion euros, far from the 93.1 billion euros deficit that you had planned in the initial finance law for 2020. This difference is explained, for €44.1 billion – more than half – by expenditure from the general state budget, mainly to finance emergency measures. It is also due to the drop of EUR 37.1 billion in our tax revenues. The phenomenon is well known to all: less activity is less profits for companies, which therefore pay less taxes; it is less consumption of households, and therefore less VAT; These are lower income, and therefore less income taxes – even though we saw that revenue had been better than we anticipated. The fall in activity has had a severe impact on VAT, the product of which is EUR 12.2 billion less than what you voted in the original finance law for 2020. It also led to a reduction of EUR 11.9 billion in corporate income and EUR 5.7 billion in the domestic consumption tax on energy products (ICTPE). In total, in 2020, tax revenues amounted to EUR 256 billion. However, as we were able to learn from the first confinement, the activity was maintained at the end of 2020 at a lower level than we feared, and this was felt on the tax revenues, which are finally EUR 6.7 billion higher than the last forecast we had proposed to you during the examination of the fourth amending finance law. The return on corporate tax, in particular, is EUR 3.6 billion higher than the PLFR 4 figures; VAT of 1.7 billion; the income tax of 800 million euros – which reflects the good maintenance of the purchasing power of the French, thanks in particular to the partial activity. Finally, the performance of the ICTPE has been improved by EUR 500 million. Nevertheless, beyond the State budget alone, the situation of public finances as a whole must now improve. This is not the subject we are debating today, since we are proposing to adopt the accounts for the year 2020, but the amending finance bill that you passed on first reading last Friday provides, it must be recalled, for an even greater level of deficit in 2021 than in 2020. As the Government begins preparations for the 2022 Finance Bill, I am convinced that we must stick to clear principles. First of all, we need to strengthen our growth to regain our level of pre-crisis wealth. This requires the most effective implementation of the recovery plan – which, as you know, provides funding of EUR 100 billion – but also the absence of an increase in taxes. We are committed to this commitment because we consider that their reduction – 50 billion between 2018 and 2023 – was necessary. Secondly, we must move out of the emergency arrangements, gradually but resolutely. While it is obviously necessary to accompany the recovery, particularly in certain sectors in great difficulty, there is a danger, in terms of support for the economy, of favouring a vicious circle of aid habituation. Apart from the massive stimulus and emergency measures, there is no reason not to control what is described as ordinary expenditure; We must continue to be serious. Finally, we need new tools to improve governance of public finances. I trust the rapporteurs-general of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Social Affairs, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Finance, to assist us in the examination of the draft organic legislation which they have tabled and which has been before your House. The control of our public finances is a weapon against adversity – the crisis that we are going through has strongly recalled it. At the European level, it ensures our credibility, our ability to weigh on the international stage and to influence the course of events. Finally, it is a condition of long-term sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 financial year is over, and I believe that we can be satisfied with all the measures taken since March 2020 to help French and businesses cope with the crisis. We must now work together to meet these great challenges in a spirit of responsibility: to ensure and support the rebound of our economy, to master the epidemic crisis – of course –, to emerge from emergency measures as we emerge from the health crisis, to ensure the proper implementation of the recovery plan and to return to a more sustainable level of public expenditure in terms of ordinary expenditure and the control of the nation's accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u4	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u5	And a candidate for the regionals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u6	It's a lot for one man!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u7	The Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill for the year 2020 that we are looking at is both out of order and unsurprising. Apart from the norms by the observation that it makes of a massive deterioration of our public finances in 2020, due, of course, to the public response, just as massive, to the health, economic and social crisis that we have been experiencing since March 2020: it is the "whatever it costs". Unsurprisingly, moreover, because everyone knows in Parliament and in the country how little the financial photograph of fiscal year 2020 has to do with the initial finance law for 2020, and everything to do with the four amending financial laws that made it possible to provide this public response. The latter has received very broad approval on many benches of the two parliamentary assemblies, as evidenced by the agreements reached in the Senate and the National Assembly in the same terms. The preparation and adoption of amending finance laws has been a real balancing exercise between the need for sufficient appropriations and the need to respect the principle of sincerity, which, in terms of financial laws, requires that the most realistic forecasts be made. Good, therefore, if those of the fourth amending finance law for 2020 – whether it is revenue, deficit or debt – appear pessimistic: it is the debt issues made on the basis of this law that allow today to finance the additional deficit associated with the draft amending finance law for 2021 that we passed last Friday. For a little more than a year, the urgency still requires, and it is preferable, in the current health context, to prepare for the worst in order to know good surprises when clearing the accounts. In 2020, the general government general government deficit stood at €211.5 billion, compared to €74.7 billion in 2019. It thus accounts for 9.2% of GDP, compared with 3.1% – and even 2.2% taking into account the one-off of the CICE – in 2019. The government deficit reached 178.1 billion; It was $92.7 billion in 2019. Contrary to what happened in 2019, it is lower than that of all public administrations, which reveals the major consequences of the health crisis on social finances. On the other hand, the balance of local governments has been poorly affected: this is good news for our communities and a sign of the effectiveness of all the safety nets created by the state – measures that we have adopted here. Expenditures in the general budget, net of refunds and rebates, amounted to $389.7 billion, up from $336.1 billion in 2019. This represents the $41.8 billion disbursed throughout 2020 as part of the Budget Mission's Emergency Plan to Address the Health Crisis. Moreover, not all of the crisis-related expenditure has been linked to the crisis. The exceptional aid to households and the most modest, the most vulnerable, 2.4 billion, was financed by the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission; the mission Economy allowed the purchase of masks for 395 million and helped to support the industries producing these masks, but also zoos and equestrian centers, to the tune of 45 million. It also financed measures in the recovery plan for the automotive and aeronautics sectors, as well as projects to relocate or decarbonise the industry, for 250 million. Beyond the general budget, the special accounts have borne a decisive part of the public response. The State has disbursed $8.3 billion to strengthen strategic enterprises weakened by the crisis through a capital increase. Nearly 2 billion advances have been granted in order to deal with the difficulties encountered by airports and aerodromes, as well as the tariff losses suffered by the mobility organising authorities, which were taken into account in the third amending finance law. Nets designed to secure DMTO's revenues – transfer fees for consideration – from communities have also played their part: when there is under-consumption, it is because the needs are less important than expected. Finally, let us not forget the EMPs, which are heavily used to support the cash flow of companies. This does not affect the general government deficit of 2020 and 2021; This is normal because companies benefit fully from their second year of deferred repayment. On the other hand, their effects on the balance sheet of the State can be seen: 100 billion collateral commitments are recorded as liabilities. The exit of these EMPs will obviously have to be accompanied, in order not to weaken the beneficiaries, who have had to disburse the corresponding amounts. This will probably require an extension of their deadline, as well as simplified restructuring procedures, accompanied from a budgetary point of view, for companies with rebound prospects. In sum, the very sharp increase in spending has not prevented some budgetary control, as illustrated by the moderate evolution of staff spending – below the forecast of the original finance law – and the first decline in employment since 2015. On the other hand, in line with the two previous ones, implementation 2020 is marked by the absence of advance decrees and by the respect of reasonable rules for the reserve of credits – 2021 will be an exception in this respect. The government's net tax revenues also suffered the effects of the crisis: they amounted to 256 billion, compared to 281.3 billion in 2019, and while the original finance law provided for 293 billion. Taxes whose return depends on economic activity, such as VAT, ICTPE, corporate tax, of course, account for much of this loss. All general government debt at 31 December 2020 stands at 2000 billion, or 115.7% of GDP. As of December 31, 2019, it was 1823 billion, representing 97.6% of GDP. This is therefore a very strong increase in our debt, due to unprecedented financing needs – more than 300 billion – due to an unprecedented public deficit. This increase in the stock of debt, however, was accompanied in 2020 by a substantial decrease in the cost of the State's financial commitments, with a historically small amount of $35.8 billion, compared to $40.3 billion in 2019. The more we were in debt, the less we had to pay the debt service! The quality of France's signature, reinforced, enabled us to finance our public policies at the best cost in the markets. Of course, all this has been possible only with and thanks to the effective monetary policy of the European Central Bank (ECB), but also because of the soundness of our emergency and recovery policies, which are seen both as protecting jobs, businesses and as likely to contribute, in preparing for future growth, to a return on investment. From the solidarity fund to the free testing and vaccinations, to the Ségur de la santé and the partial activity schemes, we have been carrying out, for more than a year, a very great social policy. It is up to us today to see the cost, it will be up to us in the future to manage the consequences, but we can collectively withdraw the satisfaction of the service rendered to our compatriots. At the international level, our public policies have been validated, justified and even encouraged; The European Commission, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have clearly understood their interest in preserving income, employment and businesses while preparing for the rebound of our economy. Once we leave the emergency, the recovery plan must enable us to make up for lost time by finding, beyond the ECB's action, a factor in France's credibility in the financial markets and in investors' confidence in our signature. The crisis did not undermine the majority's desire for a serious budget. The earl of interest rates, temporarily relaxed by the ECB, will not fail to be felt again and to raise questions about the sustainability of our public finances. More than ever, we need structural reforms that will provide us with tools to better control public spending, to rebalance social accounts, to promote investment for the future. In due course, new budgetary programming must enable us to stabilize and then reduce public debt. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is up to Parliament to give the Government a discharge in respect of the fiscal year 2020. Of course, it would have been possible, as we discussed, to better adjust the appropriations allocated in 2020 and in 2021 for the emergency, in particular by moderating the amount of carry-overs, which necessarily weighs on the accuracy of Parliament's budgetary authority. However, at the time of the passage of the fourth amending finance bill, we will see how difficult it was to anticipate the needs in the face of the crisis. In this context, which encouraged prudence in forecasting new public policies, including window policies, it should be admitted that the implementation of 2020 reflects the four amending financial laws, which had been approved far beyond the parliamentary majority. It is therefore logical to hope that this bill will also be so, in the same spirit of national unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u8	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u9	The bill comes to us earlier and earlier – that was already the case last year – which is a good thing. It was presented to the Council of Ministers on 14 April, together with the stability programme for the European Commission. This is an important development, giving more depth to the examination. The coherent sequence between the tabling of the draft regulation and the presentation of the stability programme allows us to simultaneously evoke the retrospective and prospective dimensions of the trajectory of our public finances, as well as the intertwining of national financial procedures and our European commitments. In addition, we have the opportunity to better articulate the future settlement law and the Spring Assessment. The discussion and the vote on this text call for us to close an unusual year in our budgetary history. The health crisis which has become an economic crisis has led to a substantial revision, requiring four collective budgets, of the balance envisaged by the original finance law: it will have led to almost EUR 50 billion in additional expenditure – including EUR 41.8 billion under the new mission "Emergency plan for the health crisis", for which the rapporteur-general and I are rapporteurs – and the loss of 37 billion revenue, mainly tax revenue, to which almost 6 billion must be added the deterioration of the special accounts. The initial finance law provided for a budget deficit of more than 93 billion for the state in 2020, which is already a lot; It will finally reach 178 billion. The State's only debt was to reach 1845 billion; It will have reached the level of 2000 billion, a record level of 115 % or 116 % of GDP. While each of the budget collectives provided additional funding – 6.3 billion in March, 38 billion in April, 12 or 13 billion in July and 19 billion in November – these powerful enhancements were in fact well beyond our final consumption capacity. Almost $32 billion will not have been executed. This under-consumption gave the Government considerable room for manoeuvre: some 30 billion carry-overs from the 2021 budget allowed it to spend significant time before presenting for this year a first collective budget, which we adopted a few days ago. However, you remember that an advance decree was required by mid-May in order to reallocate more than 7 billion to the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis", which amounted to making maximum use of the faculties offered in this field by the LOLF, the Organic Law on Finance Laws. Such under-consumption, coupled with the importance of carry-overs of appropriations, aroused criticism by the Court of Auditors in its report on the results of the budgetary management of 2020: this is indeed a worrying breach of the principle of budgetary annuality. A second worrisome aspect of this very particular fiscal chronicle is the fact that the growth of spending is not exclusively due to the crisis – I have been saying this for several months. The increase in expenditure due to urgency and recovery must not mask the insidious and inexorable evolution of current expenditure. The Court of Auditors estimates the share of the increase in expenditure in 2020 in the state budget, which is not due to the crisis, at 6.7 billion. This figure indicates a steady pace of growth, well above what it was in the recent past: in 2018, it did not exceed $1.5 billion. Five missions in the general budget are thus experiencing an increase in "non-crisis" expenditure of more than 1 billion, the category most concerned being that of intervention expenditure, supported both by emergency measures and by the dynamism of the long-term aid schemes; For example, the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH) is more than 900 million more than expected. The more contained increase in staff costs is in the order of 1%, compared to 1.6% in 2019 and 3.4% in 2018. That's a good thing; However, 2020 will have been a year of net creation of public jobs – 2800 jobs, 2600 more than in the original finance law. Thus, the Government has clearly renounced any effort to reduce or even stabilize the number of these jobs, confirming an attitude that we had already denounced about the 2019 financial year. The Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 has set a standard for government-led expenditure. Within this narrower scope than the general budget as a whole, expenditure amounted to almost 286 billion; According to the standard, it is expected to be about 280 billion. The target of these pilotable expenditures, slightly under-executed in 2018, was slightly exceeded in 2019 and very strongly in 2020; their growth over the last three years, which is expected to be contained at 1% per year, is almost 11.4% for the whole period. Thus, wanting to define a scope for the control of expenditure seems to become a futile task, and this in two ways: on the one hand, such a perimeter does not allow to grasp the entire expenditure – and in this it already fails to contain the growth of public expenditure – on the other hand, even on a limited scope, corresponding to the standard of pilotable expenditure, the objective is not respected for a long time. Within the scope of all public administrations – known as "all APUs" – the growth in ordinary expenditure between 2019 and 2020 is estimated at EUR 19 billion, while EUR 75 billion was mobilised in emergency and recovery expenditure in 2020. The insufficiently controlled evolution of our spending is also expected to continue in 2021, with overall expenditure growth of around EUR 41 billion for ordinary expenditure and of EUR 25 billion for emergency and recovery expenditure. In short, in the space of two years, we will have taken a step of almost 170 billion euros in terms of the volume of public expenditure: we will obviously have to ensure that this march does not become a floor. One last point of concern concerns the development of our debt, with a deficit of all administrations reaching €212 billion in 2020, or 9.2% of GDP. We have further increased our debt, as our public debt all APU exceeds EUR 2650 billion by the end of 2020, with the immediate result of rising debt issues, both in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, our debt is up by €55 billion in 2020; In the long term, borrowings increased by EUR 260 billion, exceeding the State's net tax revenue for the same year. It can only be seen as a form of vulnerability to any increase, or even to any simmering of the rate curve – a phenomenon that seems to be beginning to manifest itself across the Atlantic before, perhaps, this is also the case in Europe. Of course, for the time being, we are experiencing a situation of low rates which allows us to be in debt without pain or, if I dare a medical comparison, debt under morphine, which exposes us to a euphoric risk which puts us away from reality. The interest burden of the state debt fell in 2020 by 4.8 billion euros compared to 2019, rising to "only" – I put this adverb in quotation marks – 34 billion euros, even though the debt had increased by more than 150 billion euros. An increase in the rate of debt financing would obviously have fundamental consequences, rather slow at the beginning – it is always 2 or 3 billion euros in the first year – before things accelerate as the borrowings renew, until they reach about 30 billion at the end of ten years. When the low rate morphine comes to be missed – which will be the case someday – our country will suffer if it did not act in time to avoid it. On this point, I note what the rapporteur-general said about the need for structural reforms, i.e. real reforms that change things, and that is in line with the message delivered yesterday by the Court of Auditors in a report. The health crisis will ultimately have been a reflection of our weakness and fiscal fragility, a situation in which we were already in the midst of the crisis because of our inability to sustain the efforts to control expenditure and reduce staff levels. The health crisis must therefore prompt us to reconsider our model of public spending. [[Mr. Christophe Jerretie applauds]] Laurent Saint-Martin and I have tabled a proposal for an organic law on the modernization of the management of public finances, which our assembly should consider in public session at the special session in July. If we propose a renovation of the LOLF, it is also to provide a more precise framework for the management, interpretation and control of our public spending. This will, of course, never change the political will behind public finance decisions, but it will provide a framework for reading whether or not we are up to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u10	In the general debate, Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u11	The settlement bill before us today closes the Spring of Evaluation, this period dedicated to Parliament's oversight of the implementation of budgets voted in finance law. I want to acknowledge the voluntarism and pugnacity of Eric Woerth, who is behind this essential parliamentary initiative to improve the effectiveness of public policies, which has now emerged in our debates. It is particularly difficult, however, to examine in a rational manner the accounts for the year 2020, which the epidemic and economic crisis have completely jammed. Indeed, the budget that we voted at the end of 2019 has nothing more to do with the year-end budget that we must adopt with this regulation act. In fact, it is quite normal, since it is precisely expected that a political leader will be able to adapt to the real and be responsive during a storm by abandoning his certainties. That is why the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans fully endorsed the logic of "whatever it takes" the time of the crisis and voted for all the emergency measures necessary to save French companies weakened by the pandemic and successive confinements and to support each other. We have also contributed, through our proposals and vigilance, to strengthening existing mechanisms and filling various gaps. Nevertheless, this year 2020 will remain like the worst recession of the 21st century, with a GDP contraction of more than eight points. On the other hand, with a deficit of 9.2% of GDP and a debt close to 120 % of GDP, we have unfortunately not finished paying for the consequences of this unprecedented slippage in our public finances. For 2020 alone, the cost of the crisis is estimated at EUR 93 billion and the government deficit has almost doubled to EUR 178 billion. It is also noted that France has suffered the crisis more severely than the rest of Europe, with a sharper contraction in growth than in the rest of the euro area. Above all, while we have always expressed our support for measures to support our economy, we deplore the much less understandable surge in expenditure unrelated to the crisis. According to the Court of Auditors, ordinary expenditure increased by EUR 6.7 billion in 2020. These are expenditure that is neither urgent nor recovery, which we cannot afford given our record level of debt, at a time when, moreover, rates are beginning to rise dangerously. For example, raising interest rates by only one point – an assumption that is quite possible at the present time – would result in an increase in the cost of the interest burden of €2.5 billion per year. I repeat, if our debt has reached a maximum level of alert, it is not so much because of the crisis itself, which has hit all of Europe, that your government has not been able to take advantage of the three years of growth that we have enjoyed before to reduce public spending and to reform the country. Be aware that in 2019, twenty-three of the twenty-eight countries in the European Union fell into debt, while France was one of the five countries that continued to increase their debt! Today we are paying the price for this lack of political courage. Even today, the comparison burdened us: with our current level of debt, it would take France sixty-seven years to regain its pre-crisis level of debt, when only seven years would be enough for Germany. But for the time being, our country's prospects for deleveraging remain very hypothetical. The Government is aiming for 2027 to stabilize the debt and bring the deficit back below 3 per cent, but the means it is providing to achieve this goal are extremely vague and limited. The Court of Auditors denounces the lack of realism of these budget forecasts, whose credibility is subject to doubt. Above all, your government is lurking with illusions by squandering on the only return of growth to clean up our finances. For example, we believe it is urgent to postpone the retirement age in order to save our system by distribution while taking into account the increase in life expectancy. As the post-crisis situation unfolds, our country's deleveraging will become a major issue. The Court of Auditors has understood this well, which advocates strong measures to reduce public expenditure after 2022. Minister, give us a clear and credible horizon for our country's deleveraging. Present us with a new law on public finance programming, the previous one being completely obsolete! In the meantime, Members of the Republican Group will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u12	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u13	In order to cut short the possible rumours, I would like to point out from the outset that the vote of the Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will be in favour of the settlement law. Don't worry, Minister Delegate: my speech will be structured and coherent, in the continuity of what we have heard so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u14	He wasn't worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u15	What a scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u16	First of all, I would like to point out that 2020 has been an exceptional year in terms of emergency solutions and support. It has been exceptional in form, through its progress, with the examination of four amending finance bills – which, to my knowledge, is a record for a fiscal year. It was also, and above all, exceptional in substance, thanks to the specific solutions and arrangements put in place: PGE, partial activity, solidarity funds, exemptions and carry-overs, not to mention, of course, the support of local and regional authorities. The year 2020 was also the year of all records – perhaps 2021 will dethrone it – by the amounts executed: a state-wide expenditure of 389 billion euros, compared to 336 billion euros in 2019, 37 billion euros of tax revenue less than anticipated in the financial law, a deficit on the state account of 178 billion euros and a general government deficit of 9.2% of GDP. All the figures we examined were dizzying! 2020 was the year of all the commitments and the true role of the State. With the help of its agents, the State has committed itself to running the public services. It has fully played its protective and stabilizing role to protect the French from the crisis and its economic and social consequences. It has also proved to be economically indispensable, for a company that disappears is a fabric of relationships, know-how, culture and community that we will not see again. Of course, some would say that we could have done better on several points, but by 2020, the goal was to act quickly and strongly. The year 2020 has also been a useful year of "overbudgeting" which, I believe, bears witness to our foresight. In retrospect, they may astonish the legislator that we are, but they were in fact not illogical, because they were based on estimates calculated from the cost of the first confinement, which led to substantial appropriations, particularly for the partial activity and the solidarity fund. It was better to predict more than not enough. The year 2020 also brought us a good surprise, consisting of the resilience of revenues. In particular, with regard to the level of activity and tax revenue, the results showed better budgetary execution, not in comparison with the original finance law, of course, but in relation to the very particular economic year that we experienced. This is, of course, due to the resilience of the French economy as a whole, but also and above all to the mechanisms for mitigating the economic effects of containment, reinforced by the will of the entire population to revive our country. 2020 was also the year of budgetary decisions taken at European level. Thanks to the action of the President of the Republic, we are finally on this path: this time, Europeans are determined to respond together to the crisis. It was necessary to accompany the European population in order to avoid at all costs the widening of the gap between the North and the South. It seems to me that the EUR 750 billion announced in 2020 and the revolutionary methods of intervention that have been decided – I am thinking in particular of common debt – are in a position to inform the future of the Union. Of course, this year 2020 will have left important stigmas on public finances, which raises the question of the sustainability of public debt in the medium term. First of all, the restoration of our finances requires a quick and successful exit of the "no matter what," Minister Delegate. Of course, the recovery plan is one of the keys to this exit, but it is not the only one, and I am already hearing some call for an increase in levies on the most affluent companies and households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u17	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u18	However, between 2010 and 2014 we learned that a deficit reduction policy is only effective if it tends to reduce spending rather than increase mandatory levies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u19	Ah! Is that the right one that blew it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u20	Doing the opposite can be devastating for growth because growth is the essential tool for the economic recovery and fiscal stability of our state. Beyond the 100 billion stimulus package, we cannot afford a real reflection on public spending – and the Democrats will take their full part, Minister. The 2020 financial year only exacerbated the historical imbalance between revenue and expenditure that we are suffering from. It fully confirms the need to modernise our country through structural reforms and to launch the financial and fiscal regeneration of the State in order to anticipate a possible crisis in future years. Please be aware, Minister Delegate, that the Movement Démocrate (MODEM) and Related Democrats are standing by your side to support this ambition. (Applause on the benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups. – Ms. Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u21	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u22	I must say that I still enjoy speaking in the gallery on matters that cannot be changed much. But since I have to say something about what is already happening in this bill, I will take the opportunity to make a few remarks about your sometimes unorthodox budgetary practices. Your accounts are not characterized by clarity. It is not I who say this, but the Court of Auditors in its budget implementation analysis note on the emergency plan mission in the face of the health crisis. The budgetary resources available varied by month between EUR 25 billion and EUR 37 billion, excuse me, and as of 31 December 2020, unconsumed appropriations amounted to EUR 17.1 billion, i.e. the amount of appropriations allocated in PLFR 4 a month earlier. In other words, as the Court of Auditors points out, this fourth PLFR was not necessarily useful: it helped above all to make the public accounts illegible. This is proof of the massive carry-overs of credits that had to be made between 2020 and 2021 to take account of unconsumed credits: they amount to more than 43 billion euros, never seen. It should be noted that in order to see this, we have had to go through almost seventy decrees of carry-overs of appropriations, which is still quite impractical, you will agree. The difficulty of obtaining a readable budget complicates the work of Parliament and the Court of Auditors. Monitoring the work of the Government is our role and the Government is to some extent obstructing the exercise of this mission, which is not entirely normal. I wonder about another point: the deployment of the emergency plan and the recovery plan. Here too, I find that there is a lack of readability. In April, when we asked you, Minister Delegate, why the disbursements of funds from the stimulus plan identified in the Chorus application were at a rate four times slower than expected, we were given a somewhat evasive response. Since then, we have finally been able to obtain an explanation that is on the way, not thanks to you but to the services of the Assembly, which I would like to thank. Within the "Emergency Plan" mission, all appropriations, except those under the Solidarity Fund, are spent by operators such as the Service and Payment Agency (ASP) or the USSRAF Caisse Nationale, the former ACOSS, and the same applies to the appropriations under the Recovery Plan. The process is as follows: these agencies draw first from their cash flow, then once it is emptied, turn to the state to restore it, which explains the fact that the disbursements of credits appear in a staggered way in Chorus. While we can understand these operational reasons, we are still disarmed to analyse and monitor the implementation of the emergency plan and the recovery plan in 2021. Perhaps you will tell us in November that you are surprised that some aid has not been consumed and tell us that you find this a pity. But at that time, Parliament will not be able to do anything, apart from deploring itself to be so put before the fait accompli. That's not acceptable. There is, however, a way to remedy this. On the occasion of the PLFR, and thank you for that, you provided us with a consumption table for appropriations 2021, programme by programme, including for missions Emergency Plan and Recovery Plan. We ask you to present us with an equivalent, each month, by going into the details of each action. I come to another factor in the lack of legibility of budgetary implementation. The fact that appropriations under the Recovery Plan were allocated in the framework of the traditional missions in 2020 and subsequently transferred to a new mission dedicated to the Recovery Plan, which was opened only from 2021 onwards, has made it substantially difficult to monitor the multiannual budget of the measures, to the point that even the Court of Auditors seems to have abandoned the consolidation exercise. The Court therefore asks you for a table detailing the original programmes of appropriations for the year 2020 and I would be grateful if you could think of copying our group's reply. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, I note that the last few months have been marked by announcements of aid and premiums and that you seem to want to wait for the 2022 budget to incorporate them, in practice, into the support scheme. In 2020, as in 2021, we never stopped calling on you to unlock resources. I find it curious that you were planning to do it so late. I guess you're aiming for an electoral goal: you make these announcements before the departmental and regional elections and the money will come out in the middle of the presidential campaign. But what a happy coincidence, Minister! I regret that you have made your political strategy more important than supporting the most vulnerable and our young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u23	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u24	The review of this bill provides us with an opportunity to look back on the emergency economic policy that was carried out last year and its impact on our public finances. This is, of course, an exceptional bill, given the violence and the scale of the crisis, but also the immense effort of national solidarity made by the State. The economic crisis is not the result of a financial crisis, the explosion of a speculative bubble or hyperinflation, but rather of a global epidemic that has affected all of our social and economic interactions. France has therefore made a strong choice: the State has replaced employers to pay wages, customers to compensate traders and restorers forced to close their establishments, and guarantors to offer important possibilities for low-rate loans. This strategy was necessary but its impact on our public finances must ask us for the future. The government deficit reached €211 billion, raising the general government debt to 115% of GDP. The budget deficit, for its part, reached 7.9% of GDP, which was increased by €85 billion compared to the initial financial law forecast for 2020. This sharp deterioration is due to lower tax revenues, a decrease of EUR 37 billion, as well as to the very high emergency expenditure which had to be incurred in order to abound the now well-known mechanisms of solidarity fund, partial unemployment or exemption from contributions. A total of EUR 41 billion of additional expenditure was made available under the "Emergency plan for the health crisis". A cross-reading of the 2021 amending finance bill, which we examined at first reading last Friday, shows that the deterioration of public finances will be equivalent in 2021, or even a little stronger, one has to be aware of this. And if we leave the budget focal point for a few moments, we can see that the state's heritage situation is hardly more reassuring. The net balance stood at – 1536 billion in 2020, an increase of 165 billion compared to the level recorded at the end of 2019. However, not all of these indicators should lead us to a catastrophe or blind austerity that would prevent any hope of a vigorous economic recovery. However, we believe that two warnings can be issued. First of all, the level of public expenditure is not sustainable in the medium term, so it is necessary to get out of the "whatever it costs" with method and pragmatism, and that is what the minister delegate does. Secondly, such a level of public debt can be dangerous, because we do not control all the parameters, particularly the interest rates we borrow on the markets. [[Applause on the benches of the groups Actir ens and Dem and on a few benches of the group LaREM]] This will not, however, prevent the Action Together group from voting on the bill, because it reflects an approach that we have supported: the massive support provided by the state, from the beginning of the crisis, to all the actors it has affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u25	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u26	Our country's 2020 budget has significantly changed the trajectory of our public finances, with a public debt that now stands at 117.2% of GDP. There is no magic money: while the "no matter what" has been on the rise for almost a year at the top of the state, the question of debt repayment becomes urgent as the hope of a crisis exit approaches. In September 2020, the stock of public debt exceeded 2600 billion, while after the 2009 crisis it had barely reached 1250 billion, twice as much. In the face of covid-19, the state has mobilized unprecedented means to prevent any collapse of our economic and social fabric – and we support the emergency arrangements that have been applied – but as we move towards an exit from the crisis, it is time to think about the addition. In addition to the billions of euros that the pandemic has cost our economy, the French legitimately worry about the burden on future generations of debt that continues to grow. We are witnessing a worrying deterioration in our public finances and we are convinced that the issue of debt will be one of the major challenges we will face in the coming years, if not in the coming months. We are constantly repeating this, and we are wondering about the debt reduction strategy proposed by the Government, beyond the establishment of the Arthuis commission on the future of public finances. Can the promise of a non-increase in taxes be kept? When will a real strategic plan for reducing public spending be finally presented, through a hunting for waste and bureaucracy? Our group is convinced that the issue of debt will be a major issue in the next presidential election, and believes it is a lie to say that there will be no tax increases to pay for the covid crisis. I repeat, we are asking the Government for a plan to reduce public expenditure. Nevertheless, our group supported the extension until the summer of 2021 of the accompanying arrangements by voting on the four budget collectives for 2020 and the new PLFR for 2021. It is indeed a vital step in stimulating and rehabilitating activity in a country that is now in recession. It is precisely because we have voted on these emergency measures that we will be voting on the bill as a matter of responsibility. Finally, France's financial situation will require that necessary arbitrations be made to ensure that a recovery path is maintained. A fundamental debate will be on the efficiency of public spending, on the relationship between its cost and its ability to achieve the objectives set. My grandmother, a simple textile worker, with only 783 euros of retirement per month, always told me: "Managing is not complicated: just spend less than you earn". I am sincerely convinced that we can empower ourselves to achieve these goals, including by accelerating decentralization to simplify our administrative machinery. For the time being, what solutions remain? That of optimising the functioning of the state? What about today, Minister, the construction site of the Public Action Committee 2022 (CAP 22) opened at the beginning of the quinquennium? It seems to be encountering the difficulty of drawing the contours of a new organisation of public services capable of reducing public expenditure. But let us be optimistic and see in this difficulty an opportunity to launch structural reforms that can not only compensate for the losses caused by the health crisis, but also make our public policies more efficient in the years to come. This will allow us to anticipate the challenges of ecological transition, digital, research, education and vocational training. Let us go beyond and undertake real structural reforms to increase budgetary visibility by always thinking about future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u27	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u28	You all remember the figure of Diogene, with its stick and lantern lit in broad daylight, repeating: "I am looking for a man". Parliamentarians are also looking for someone who will be able to steer our public finances and straighten them out. I regret to tell you, Minister Delegate, that this person will not be you. I will make four remarks in connection with the consideration of this bill. First point: in 2020, your policy of opening up the budget helped to abolish all the limits, it led to quite exceptional results. You broke all the records: the public debt stood at 115.7% of GDP at the end of 2020 – 120%, in fact, I will come back – and the deficit reached 9.2% of GDP. I am not critical of your choice to support businesses and households in the face of the pandemic. The four successive budget collectives have been voted on by Parliament and we have joined them for some of them. However, once we have crossed the line there are no limits. And your government has abandoned any idea of savings. After the presentation of the first budget collective of 2021, I look forward to the next finance bill for 2022, which, I have the impression, will remain in line with previous financial texts. I look forward to knowing whether the "no matter what" will continue to apply until the presidential election. Bruno Le Maire says it must end but, as we can see, the country continues to sink financially. The second criticism is that the health crisis cannot be used as a pretext for anything. It must be noted, in fact, that ordinary expenditure continues to grow strongly in 2020. But the expenditure related to the crisis is one thing, the explosion of non-covid spending -19 is another. You cannot, Minister Delegate, invoke the pandemic to justify all your choices. Apart from the exceptional measures related to covid, the Court of Auditors is raising 6.7 billion additional ordinary expenditure – an increase of 2 %. The problem is not recent, and I repeat it every year in this House: the ills resulting from the failure to control public expenditure have been repeatedly diagnosed by the Committee on Finance, but because of the lack of effective medication and a clear willingness to heal, they continue to penalize us. Mr. Deputy Minister, is there a vaccine against this expensive disease? My third observation concerns the state's balance sheet, which, too often neglected and almost always unnoticed, reveals a real bankruptcy. This subject is not of great interest, and it is rarely discussed or even commented on. A Prime Minister had declared in 2012 to be the head of a bankrupt state: what would he say today? The state's net position is increasingly negative: it is – €1,536 billion at the end of 2020, an increase of 165 billion compared to 2019. This figure hides another: the total liability exceeds 2705 billion, which amounts to 90000 euros for each of the 30 million French families, compared to 2450 billion in 2019. Technically speaking, it is a bankruptcy: no company could bear such a situation, which would have taken it to the commercial court for a long time. The problem is that the rate of progression of the State's liabilities is much higher than that of the assets; the situation worsens each year the amount of the deficit. However, this deterioration corresponds to massive operating expenditure and not to capital expenditure. In addition, it should be noted that the amount of the State's debt is, in fact, much more serious than posted, as it is reduced by the order of 90 billion at the end of 2020 thanks to the accumulation of the premiums recorded by Agence France Trésor (AFT). These net discount premiums have reached astronomical amounts – 30.7 billion in 2020 – and the stock exceeds 90 billion since to date it has reached even 105 billion, i.e. 4% of GDP. In Maastrichtian accounting, the level of debt is artificially reduced thanks to these premiums; We would have to put an end to this accounting illusion in order to know the true level of indebtedness when the bill was passed. My fourth and final comment repeats several anomalies raised in particular by the Court of Auditors. First of all, the carry-overs of appropriations to the financial year 2020 represent more than EUR 30 billion – an unprecedented amount to date. Does parliamentary authorisation still make sense? The LOLF, however, provides for a ceiling of 3% of the appropriations entered in a programme for carry-overs – but you have preferred to lift this limit and increase the derogations. The proper application of this rule should be strengthened, as called for by the Court of Auditors. Let us not be mistaken, in fact, that these carry-overs have only one objective: to give the illusion of a lower forecast deficit in 2021. Second, the remaining payments are constantly growing: they increased from 118.9 billion in 2018 to 133.3 billion at the end of 2020, a significant increase. Finally, my last point concerns the funds without legal personality, a recurring problem also raised by the Court of Auditors: these financial entities, which proliferate over the years, constitute an additional debuddling unacceptable to our public finances and contrary to Parliament's rights. It would be time to put an end to it as soon as the 2022 finance bill came to an end. In conclusion, Minister Delegate, this bill reflects an unsustainable management of public finances that we cannot accept. For all these reasons, the Libertés et Territoires Group will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u29	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u30	The Rules of Procedure of this House forbid me to say too harshly what this 2020 exercise really inspires me. But believe that words and figures are not lacking to say the injustice, insufficiency and insanity of the Government's budgetary choices, which the majority has been diligently approving. When we read the bill, we'd think that the crisis was just a health walk! You refer to unprecedented mobilization, financial resources and massive and unprecedented efforts that, in your view, would have limited the economic and social consequences of the crisis. I give it to you, to a certain extent, it was unprecedented. Yet, by the end of 2020, food banks had registered 2 million applicants, half of them for a year or less; One in six young people had to drop out of their studies, according to the report of our colleague Marie-George Buffet; and a low estimate of the Federation of Solidarity Actors had an additional 1 million poor people, even before December. All the studies are formal: the poorest of our fellow citizens, the youngest, the least educated, the most precarious, the women – as usual – who have suffered the most. When, locked in a certain logic, public policies ignore inequalities, they are condemned to reoccur. On the other side of the cord, if I may say so, the picture is idyllic. Thanks to your unprecedented effort, the fortune of French billionaires has increased by 40% in one year, or 170 billion euros. With such a sum, we could fill the famous social security hole, extend the RSA to young people under 25 years of age and create 2 million paid jobs at the average wage for a year. But, faithful to yourself, you have refused to tax the profitors of the crisis, in the name of bankal economic reasonings that sometimes misrepresent your allegiances. However, the last of the economic students knows that in times of crisis, the revival of activity requires support for popular consumption and not the policy of supply. Despite the unconditional aid granted to companies, despite some 30 billion old CICE and the 80 billion often polluting and opaque tax expenditure, private investment contracted by almost 10% in 2020. It was up to the public authorities to take over. With historically low rates, you could have financed the reorientation of the economy towards a more socially and environmentally sustainable mode of production, reindustrializing, bringing places of life closer to places of employment, thus favouring short circuits and small enterprises. Today's investments are tomorrow's wealth and the best bulwarks in the face of future crises. But, unable to draw lessons from previous crises, more royalistic than the king when it comes to implementing the evil treaties of the European Union, you have tried to contain the deficit. Your unprecedented financial means thus represent some 7.5 points of GDP, when those released in the United States rise to 42 points of GDP, almost six times more! Of course, they have an independent currency. Under your control, the state has not been up to the level and you have tried, to the end, to make us believe the opposite: from the announcement effects in announcements not followed by effect, you have staggered more than 45 billion euros provided for in the law of amending finances, especially on the contingency plan. What is, again, unprecedented is the under-execution of your budget and its manifest insinuity, even if it is disguised as prudence! That you plastron after such a gabegie – even if you make up the numbers – while our fellow citizens get poorer gives me the turn personally. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, since you seem unable to question your logic, suffer that the opposition will do it in your place and vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u31	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u32	Finally, objective support!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u33	[[Smile]] First of all, to cut short the noises that might flow, be assured that we will not vote on this bill. More seriously, as every year, we have to examine and decide on the settlement of the budget and the approval of the accounts. Last Friday, we concluded our consideration of the amending finance bill, yesterday we were participating in a debate on the Spring Assessment and, immediately after the vote on this bill, we will debate the stimulus measures. The month of June is therefore a period of reflection during which we discuss finance and take a critical look at the various actions that may or may not have been carried out. Today, we are verifying the implementation of a budget voted before the crisis of the covid-19 and whose ins and outs were completely disconnected from reality, which required the examination of four PLFRs. Did we, however, hear and understand what the French expected of us? Have you been up to it? On Friday evening, my colleague Stéphane Peu drew up a portrait of the good and bad measures taken during the various PLFs and PLFRs. Essentially, business aid schemes have proven their value and usefulness: they have enabled millions of French people to retain their jobs, even during the various administrative closures; and compensation for partial unemployment. However, the weakness or even absence of the conditions for the payment of aid to large companies and the lack of firmness shown are more than shocking. What's the result? In a time of crisis, billionaire wealth takes off and the CAC40 allows itself a record distribution of dividends of 51 billion euros! At the same time, poverty is exploding and the most precarious suffer the double penalty, especially with the reform of unemployment that you have insisted on maintaining at all costs. Most recently, you have also opposed common-sense measures such as deconjugation of the AAH, which aims to give financial autonomy to people with disabilities – we will have the final answer on this subject tomorrow. With this PLF, you have refused to tax dividends, to remove tax niches from large companies and to condition the aid. It is because of all these gifts, which the French will have to pay the cost at one time or another, in one way or another, that the most fortunate have continued to enrich themselves. Why not finally put the richest to use? Since the beginning of the crisis, the question of their fair participation and the restoration of a tax on wealth has arisen, over and over again. This is not a revanchard logic, as I could hear it say here or there, nor confiscate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u34	Although...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u35	...but to be fair and to redistribute the wealth produced as accurately as possible. In the same vein, flat tax is a serious mistake and a great injustice; we will continue to fight for its suppression. I would also like to take this opportunity to focus on the departments and their fiscal autonomy. I have already asked you about this, but I would like to speak about it again today: the abolition of the tax on land built for the benefit of the municipalities, offset by a fraction of VAT, removes all financial autonomy from the departments, which represent the first stage of solidarity. In the current period, it would be essential to empower them and to provide them with the capacity to invest. Ladies and gentlemen, if we seem to see the end of the tunnel and the exit from the health crisis, the already ravaging social crisis does not seem to be calming down. You who show your strength to keep businesses out of the water – and that's so much the better – show the same verva to defend the most fragile, the poorest, the students and all those who suffered the most from the health crisis. Choose ambitious social measures instead of imposing harsh reforms, such as unemployment or pensions. The French are already making a lot of efforts when, at the same time, the most wealthy, the banks and the insurance companies took advantage of the crisis. It's unbearable and it's high time to change logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u36	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u37	The year 2020 was unprecedented in budgetary terms, due to the scale of the health crisis and the confinement introduced to protect French and French people. The State has been at the meeting and at the height of the stakes – I would like once again to welcome the action taken by the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority in the face of an unknown pandemic until now. Whatever the cost, real budgetary resources have been allocated to support the economy and businesses, and to save jobs. It is therefore an unprecedented budget settlement act that we are considering today, on the understanding that the state budget was reviewed four times in 2020, in the context of amending finance bills, in order to adapt the response to the pandemic. Solidarity Fund, partial activity, compensation for contribution relief: € 41.8 billion of expenditure was committed under the emergency plan. As a result of the large-scale measures taken, economic performance has been less degraded than expected, even if historically low: growth and GDP have declined respectively by 8.2 per cent and 9.2 per cent, compared with the – 11 per cent and – 11.3 per cent anticipated in the fourth amending budget of the State. The economic recovery has been strong: it is the result of all the efforts of the Government and the majority. We have also been present to our fellow citizens who are in precarious situation: unemployment rights have been maintained, a minimum income guarantee of 900 euros has been guaranteed, a bonus has been granted to students eligible for personalized housing assistance (APL), a meal at 1 euro, noon and evening, has been introduced... and I am passing! With EUR 300 billion initially earmarked for state-guaranteed loans, EUR 52 billion for the postponement of payment deadlines for certain compulsory levies, EUR 14 billion for the early repayment of tax credits, and EUR 79 billion for loans to support the economic fabric, we have been at the meeting to save our businesses and jobs – and when we save jobs, we save people. It is true that all these measures, coupled with a fall in tax revenues due to the crisis, give rise to a very high budget deficit of EUR 178 billion, double the amount voted in the initial budget for 2020. But it was worth it, not to our detractors who always blame us for doing too much or not enough. The returns that come from the ground – from restaurateurs, artists, artisans, traders, business leaders, liberal professionals, farmers, local authorities, and I forget about them – are positive. In comparison with our European neighbours, we do not have to be ashamed of our action. Contrary to what we hear on some opposition benches, it is not by increasing taxes that we will repay the debt! Since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have done the opposite: abolition of certain contributions on the salary sheets, abolition of the housing tax, with tax relief for the first and second instalments, reduction of the corporate tax, reduction of the business property tax (CFE) and of the value added tax (CVAE)... here too, I pass! We will remain faithful to our commitment to reduce compulsory levies, while the OECD's growth forecast, at 5.8%, suggests a good recovery and therefore additional revenue. However, we must maintain our vigilance to avoid a social crisis – because, as we know, the health crisis has affected the morale of the French and has also created, despite everything, a little more precarious. We hear this France in difficulty, and we respond to it with all the support measures voted in the 2021 recovery plan, whether they are aimed at young people – with the plan "1 young, 1 solution" – the purchasing power of modest households, production or farmers, who must receive a fair remuneration. The hiring bonus led to a 7% increase in CDI or CDD recruitment for young people aged 22 to 25, or 60,000 jobs, in mid-May 2021. As for the apprenticeship bonus, it has accelerated the integration of young people into different companies: in 2020, more than 500,000 people were enrolled in an apprenticeship training centre (CFA) or in a comparable institution. So we can be proud of the work we have done. Nevertheless, the battle for business, employment, cohesion and social justice must continue, and many other measures remain to be taken. After "holding together", we offer you the "continue together"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u38	I'd say "let's try something else!"
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u39	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, Members of the Republic Group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u40	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u41	I thank all speakers for their comments and suggestions; I would particularly like to thank President Eric Woerth for pointing out that this bill was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 14 April and then immediately made available to the Assembly. As Mr Woerth pointed out, it is our intention that a debate be held, during the same period, on the retrospective and forward-looking aspects. After putting forward the draft by-law to the Council of Ministers for fifteen days last year, we moved it forward for another fifteen days: Parliament gains a month of review, in addition to the Spring Assessment and the review of the stability program. I will come back to three points to respond to the various interventions, starting with the carry-overs of appropriations related to the under-consumption of emergency measures in 2020, in which some of you see a lack of respect for parliamentary authorisation. The rapporteur-general stressed this: when we proposed to Parliament that emergency appropriations should be adopted to respond to the crisis, it was always in a particularly uncertain context as regards health forecasts and their economic consequences; Every time, we wanted never to run out of funds to finance emergency measures for businesses and the French. I would point out that when we examined PLFR 4, when we proposed that appropriations for the solidarity fund, for partial activity and other emergency measures should be included, we did so on the basis of a macroeconomic scenario with the worst-case scenario, i.e. confinement in November and December – we did not want this forecast to happen, but we were ready. We estimated that the loss of business would reach 20% in November and December. Knowing that confinement took place only in November – which was already a lot – and that the loss of activity was limited to 11 per cent in November and then to 7 or 8 per cent in December, as a result of curfew and restrictive measures, economic activity remained at a much higher level than anticipated – or rather feared. This has made it possible, on the one hand, not to request emergency measures as strongly as we feared, and, on the other hand, to obtain higher than expected revenues. This is why not all credits were consumed in 2020. If we carried over appropriations, it was to deal with the consequences of the health crisis at the beginning of 2021 – let us remember that we had not included any appropriations anticipating a third confinement in the PLF for 2021, while a confinement occurred in April: the carry-overs allowed us to deal with it. I do not claim – that would be dishonest – that a carry-over of EUR 28.9 billion between two financial years is the panacea for compliance with parliamentary authorisation. I simply explain that we have been very cautious, even though we have seen under-consumption – this seems preferable to the opposite situation. It was thanks to this great prudence that we were able to dispose of funds and that you were asked to regularise the situation at the first PLFR. Many of you have pointed the difference to the original spending standard. Ms Louwagie stressed in particular that between the pilotable expenditure standard of the beginning of 2020 and the execution, the gap reached 6.4 billion, does not correspond to measures of the mission Emergency plan in response to the health crisis, nor to measures of the mission Recovery plan opened later in the year. In fact, these 6.4 billion are broken down as follows. First, $2.1 billion is due to the increase in the LPA amount due to the deterioration of revenues in April and May. It can be seen as neither an emergency measure nor a stimulus, but we see it as a fairly direct consequence of the crisis. Second, $2.1 billion was spent on the payment of the two premiums allocated to the most disadvantaged households in the spring and November. For reasons relating to the nomenclature and the nature of the expenditure concerned, we were unable to include them in the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis"; They are included in the standard of pilotable expenditure, but if there had been no crisis, such ad hoc aid would not have existed. In addition, $800 million was spent on the purchase of masks and medical devices for the State and its services; 600 million financed specific measures to support the press during confinements, which could not be included in the recovery or emergency measures – we discussed this with INSEE and the European Commission; 500 million is due to changes in the trend in the allowance for disabled adults and the guarantee of resources for disabled workers (GRTH); Finally, 400 million were earmarked for the conversion premium, which was granted in a reinforced way as early as spring, even before the appropriations needed to finance it for the recovery were voted on. In summary, while the difference from the expenditure standard is 6.4 billion, it is largely due to measures that would not have been taken without the crisis – this demonstrates the sincerity of our approach. Mr. Naegelen and other speakers referred to the stocktaking of Public Action 2022: I propose to refer it to another debate, but know that much has already been done – you would be surprised at the level of implementation of the recommendations of the report. As for the program bonuses, Mr. de Courson, I can assure you that they are not the result of a pilotage. I had the opportunity to explain to you that you were wrong – forgive me for saying so – when the debt was equal to 100 or 105% of GDP; the same is true with its current rate of 117%. We have the chance to benefit from extremely benevolent rates – certainly presenting a risk of upswing, to which we are watching; Issuance premiums promote liquidity, but the debt is already very liquid: there is therefore no steering in this area, nor is there any bounty effect caused by these premiums. Finally, production taxes will have fallen by 50 billion throughout the quinquennium. Companies benefit from 25 billion, of which 10 billion are production taxes. This means that before the recovery plan, the tax cut was equal to 40 billion for the duration of the five-year period, of which 15 billion for businesses and 25 billion for households. Of the 25 billion to which households benefit, the reduction in the housing tax – 80% of the French so far, and two thirds of the French remaining by the end of the year – and the reduction in the income tax – concentrated on the first and second tax brackets – represent more than 22 billion: these are the main factors. This is proof that the reduction in the household tax that we have made primarily benefits 80% of the French, and even more so those who pay income taxes on the first and second instalments – we are far from the most favoured households, contrary to what some say! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] Let me say a final word about fiscal sustainability and the return to a more traditional level of public expenditure. Since Mr. de Courson quoted Diogene, I can't resist answering him with a sentence from the same author: "The necessary things cost little, the superfluous things are expensive. » I suggest you follow this maxim when preparing the PLF for 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u43	I now call the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u44	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u45	It aims to update the structural balance assumptions for 2020: this would be down 0.4 percentage points from 0.9% to 1.3% of GDP; At the same time, the cyclical balance would improve by 0.4 percentage points, from 5.4% to 5% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u47	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u48	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u49	Since I will not be able to defend the following amendment, which will fall because of the majority vote just presented by the rapporteur-general, I would like to make a comment. Does the table that this amendment proposes to update still make sense? The Court of Auditors replied in the negative, if only because you have adopted a structural growth rate of 1.25%. In reality, the structural deficit continues to rise. I have therefore tabled an amendment not to include the results of implementation 2020 in that table, except for the actual balance. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to vote for an amendment that no longer makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u50	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u51	For several years, the Court of Auditors has criticized the Government's practice of deducting from gross tax revenues all refunds and discounts, including those applicable to local taxes. The State's assumption of local tax refunds and rebates should be regarded as an expense of the State. The amendment makes it possible to implement this recommendation of the Court of Auditors by isolating the amount of such local tax refunds and rebates – it is included in Article 4, paragraph 4, for EUR 22_928_799_087.15 – from the total of refunds and rebates which, I would remind you, amount to just over EUR 151 billion. As a result, net expenditures increased to $381.76 billion. Of course, the balance is unchanged, but the budget contraction you are operating is critical: a relief paid by the State and reimbursed to local authorities is an expenditure, not a revenue levy. This amendment is therefore intended to clarify the presentation of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u53	It is a debate that we have in every law of regulation and I ask myself the same questions as you. Indeed, the Court of Auditors has been saying this for several years, but the provision you are proposing would create a real break in the presentation of the figures. Rather, we should foresee something structuring. Perhaps the minister could tell us a word on this point. At this stage, I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u54	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u55	Disadvantaged, for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur-general. I would add that all the State's efforts in favour of the communities are presented in the annex Financial transfers from the State to the territorial authorities, and that in national accounts local tax reliefs are the smallest revenue of the State. Perhaps there is something to be done to translate the recommendations of the Court of Auditors into the budget documents, but the breakdown that your amendment would introduce into the chronicle of figures and the contradiction with the arguments I have just given lead us to give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u56	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u57	Mr Deputy Minister, between us, your accounting argument is weak – the rapporteur-general has been more open in his response. Would you at least agree to follow up on this recommendation made by the Court of Auditors for several years in the presentation of the 2022 finance bill. To include this considerable amount of expenditure would be in the interest of showing the communities how much local taxes the state pays.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u58	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u59	I support this common sense amendment, which makes the figures stick to the reality on the ground. You both seem to agree on the merits of the proposed provision, and the Court of Auditors points out that this presentation should be corrected. What is the point of tabling relevant amendments if we do not even adopt common sense proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u60	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 12 on the additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u61	This amendment makes it possible, in the absence of a definitive ban on the emission premiums registered by the AFT, to supplement the proper information to parliamentarians. It requests the Government to submit a report on the follow-up to these awards. This information is currently not included in the annual performance projects – PAP – and the annual performance reports – RAP – of Program 117 Debt burden and government cash flow. As a reminder, in 2020 an unprecedented volume of net discounts was recorded: €30.7 billion, which is huge; This is almost 10 billion more than in 2019, where these premiums already amounted to 21.2 billion. These premiums have a direct effect on the government's cash flow and vary greatly from year to year – over the last three years, they have exploded. They are accumulating to the point of being a very large stock. According to the figures given a month ago by the AFT, the figure would be 105.2 billion. However, taking these premiums into account in the Maastrichtian accounts makes it possible to show a smaller public debt. By an accounting illusion, the level of debt is artificially improved by 105 billion – four points of GDP. It should be noted that Parliament remains systematically kept away from the policy pursued by Agence France Trésor; the Finance Committee is still not informed of the premium forecasts for 2021. This amendment therefore provides for the submission to Parliament of a report containing two tables, the first showing the evolution over five years of the emission premiums and the second showing the volume of the accumulated stock and its evolution over the same period. This document has been provided to us by the AFT, but the latest figures are currently known only by the AFT, which still refuses to publish the official figures. I would add that French practice is quite specific. There are two countries in the European Union that practice emission premiums in turn, but there are some that practice them very little, if any. We're told it's a market demand: but no! The minister could tell the AFT that he no longer wants emission premiums; it could refuse to issue strains higher than the market rate. When you issue new debts at 4% while the 10-year rates, for example, are – 0.2%, – 0.3% or – 0.4%, you see that there are considerable sums of money. This amendment therefore calls for Parliament to be properly informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u63	I suggest that you look back on all these issues during the discussion of the proposed organic law that we are going to present with Eric Woerth, in which we propose to establish an annual debate on debt; On that occasion, the Government would submit a report, which could include precisely the information on the emission premiums you mention. Indeed, Parliament needs to be better informed about all aspects of debt service. For these reasons, request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u65	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u66	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u67	I withdraw the amendment in the light of the rapporteur-general's statements. We will come back to that when we look at the new organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u68	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u69	The amendment concerns the cancellation of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations not consumed in 2020 and not carried over from the Labour and Employment Mission. Very important topics are included in this mission, such as the financing of employment houses, etc. We ask the Government to submit a report to Parliament – as I know you are not in favour of the reports, I would like at least to give precise explanations, as we were promised in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u71	The under-consumption of commitment authorizations from the Labour and Employment Mission is problematic, but is due to the fact that each year we open up, on certain actions, for example for the financing of the competence investment plan, as many commitment authorisations as payment appropriations. As EAs have to cover several years, they are excessive and must subsequently be cancelled. It is a management steering concern: a report does not seem necessary to me, but optimisation of the management of EAs would be desirable for this mission. Ms. Verdier-Jouclas had mentioned this point in the Evaluation Spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u73	In line with its almost constant position, the Government is against all amendments to request reports. I will not repeat this for the following amendments. I agree with the rapporteur-general's comment on the authorisations for the work and employment mission. In response to Mr Bricout's explanatory memorandum, I make the following point: the cancellation of the EUR 2.5 billion of EI at the end of the 2020 financial year has no impact on the programmes drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, since this is for 2.180 billion commitment authorisations which had been opened for employment aid in TPEs and SMEs, aid which expired in 2017, and EUR 223 million of commitment authorisations which were provided for under the generation contracts, which were also agreed in 2017. The 2.5 billion we have removed are contributing to a better readability, clarity of presentation and in no way to a hindrance to the actions of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u74	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1 on the additional Rule after Rule 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u75	With this amendment, we call for a real assessment of the environmental impact of the state budget. The Government has submitted its report on the environmental impact of the State budget, known as the Green Budget, as an annex to the 2021 Finance Bill. But the sincerity of this document is largely questioned. It thus estimates expenditure with an impact on the environment at EUR 52.8 billion, out of a total budgetary and fiscal expenditure of EUR 574 billion. Of these, €38.1 billion of expenditure is considered to be environmentally friendly, €4.7 billion to be mixed and €10 billion to be unfavourable, including €5 billion in tax expenditure specifically on energy products and fuels. But this amount is largely undervalued! For 2019, by taking the exhaustive list of tax expenditures for fossil energy products, the total amount is between 15 and 18 billion euros – this is not at all 5 billion. The whole recovery plan was analysed using the same methodology: out of the €100 billion announced, €30 billion of expenditure is classified as environmentally friendly. These include precision agriculture, 5G and nuclear power. You will agree that this is a rather original way to talk about the environment! That is why we are asking, like the High Climate Council, for the Government to redraft a report that effectively evaluates the green budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u77	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. The Green budget is an initiative of this majority which we must welcome. Of course, we must continue to improve it year after year by changing the nomenclature, and that is what we are doing. You give me the opportunity to recall that for the first time we have introduced a green budget in the National Assembly: it allows us to distinguish clearly what is involved in financing measures for the ecological transition from what is not – I am thinking of the "brown niches", a subject on which we are moving.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u78	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u79	We too welcome this green budget; but the Government is here judge and party... You say you are committed to the participatory approach: we therefore request a report containing the opinions and observations of the High Council for Climate, the Citizen Climate Convention and the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. I am astonished once again that your Government is not doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u80	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u81	With this amendment, we are asking for an explanation of the under-execution of expenditure, amounting to EUR 31.6 billion, in relation to the provisions of the fourth amending finance law for 2020. I do not think we can satisfy ourselves with the pretext of prudence which has been put forward again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u83	I would point out that 93% of the under-expenditure falls under the "Emergency plan for the health crisis" mission: therefore, everyone must be convinced of the sincerity of the budget for 2020. It is the very special nature of the budget appropriations for this mission that explains this lag in implementation compared to normal: I do not think there is much more explanation to be given, if not what I have already said in the rostrum. Let us remember that before voting for the fourth PLFR, absolutely no one on these benches was able to say how long the last confinement would last and how much budget was going to be used.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u86	Disadvantaged, and since the argument of prudence is not enough to convince you, Mrs Rubin, I would add that of efficiency: that of the economic measures that have reduced the impact of the crisis on the level of wealth production, the efficiency of the State services that have implemented them and the efficiency of the companies that have responded to the crisis – the same companies that you are vilipting along with interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u87	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u88	The Court of Auditors itself stated that this over-budgeting was an announcement effect. While the funds for the contingency plan have been largely redeployed, they have been directed towards programmes that are completely different from those for which they were voted. On the other hand, the 30 billion could have financed the extension of the RSA to the under-25s.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u89	For example! Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u90	This would have been a good measure to reduce poverty, which could have been covered by this contingency plan; But you preferred to carry his credits over to other missions. That is why we would have liked more detailed explanations. Voting credits on behalf of the emergency, so as not to use them later, it smells like an announcement effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u91	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u92	With this amendment, we ask – as every year... – for real information to be made available to Parliament about the beneficiaries and the objectives of the various tax niches. While there are 222 such tax expenditures, the administration has no estimate of the number of their beneficiaries and does not know whether they are achieving their objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u93	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u94	Article 15 of the LOLF provides that payment appropriations available at the end of the year may be carried over up to 3% of the initial appropriations entered in the same programme; But this ceiling can be increased by a finance law. The level of carry-overs to 2021 is historic, as they exceed 30 billion, reflecting a substantial under-consumption of appropriations; This could have been avoided, despite the crisis, Minister Delegate: you could have tabled amendments to the Finance Act for 2021 to make adjustments, which has not been done. I note, moreover, that these postponements from 2020 to 2021 have been integral. The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to submit to Parliament a report detailing the evolution of the carry-overs of appropriations over the last five years, as well as the number of derogations from the 3 per cent ceiling for each financial year. Otherwise, parliamentary authorisation is emptied of its content, unless the rapporteur-general tells us that this will be put right in the context of the reform of the LOLF. We cannot continue, ladies and gentlemen, to accept such postponements, which completely distort the scope of the budgetary authorisation which is the sole responsibility of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u96	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr de Courson, for your amendment asking for a report on postponements, if I understand correctly! I agree with you because my report on the settlement law summarizes all the appropriations carried over since 2007, whether it be the general budget or the special accounts. You will see that between 2007 and 2019, the average level of carry-overs is about 8 billion euros. For 2020, we are very far away, of course, since we are at 43.8 billion, of which 30 billion euros for the mission "Emergency plan" and 4 billion, we often forget to say, for the recapitalisation of the SNCF – it is important to underline this. It is true that Parliament is voting for authorisations to exceed the ceiling a little blindly, but we know when we vote on the finance law in which programmes we allow these derogations, even if we obviously do not know their amounts: this is the very principle of what we vote each autumn. I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion since the information requested is contained in the existing reports, in particular mine, which at least partially satisfies your request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u97	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u98	The aim of this amendment is to start putting the funds in order without legal personality, the number and amount of which are still unknown. The Innovation and Industry Fund (IIF) is a good example of this and this amendment calls on the Government to submit a report on this fund. Created in 2018 to manage 250 million euros per year dedicated to breaking innovation, it is far from having achieved its spending targets and this failure was already visible before the crisis. Today, this target is unattainable, since, with $3.5 billion paid at 2.5%, this fund is assured of recurring revenues of only $87.5 million per year. In 2020, the State made a new allocation of the fund. This resulted in an expenditure under program 731 Capital transactions from the trust account State financial contributions of $1.9 billion. The Court of Auditors has requested for three years that the expenditure of the IIF be reinstated in the general budget of the State. This IIF constitutes an additional debudging which must be abolished; the corresponding expenditure must be included in the general budget of the State. This would not change the budgetary balance; It could even improve it if we only included in the budget the strictly necessary appropriations. This is the subject of this amendment, which is also a call for order in all these funds without legal personality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u100	The IIF was not a success over what we expected, I think we can agree on that. We have already requested a report from the Court on this matter. So it's a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u102	The opinion is unfavorable: the evolution of the economic situation, which will allow the fund to be stabilised, will solve the problems of operation that we have observed like you. In addition, as the IIF largely funds the Batteries Plan, we believe it is appropriate to keep this tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u103	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u104	When I hear the rapporteur-general, I would be prepared to withdraw my amendment, but the main question, Mr Delegate, is whether to maintain a fund without legal personality. I believe that it should be reinstated in the state budget, possibly within the framework of the original 2022 finance law – that would be to do with the rapporteur-general. The reform of the LOLF should also prohibit the creation of such funds without legal personality, which are real democratic monsters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u105	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u106	We have debated a great deal about the advisability of making the granting of aid to companies subject to certain conditions which may be social or ecological, and even more recently in the course of the consideration of the amending finance bill. However, this aid is enormous: 100 % of the CAC40 companies received massive public aid in the context of the covid-19 crisis. In 2020, France spent an additional EUR 155 billion on business support, in addition to the already existing aid of around EUR 150 billion, a record in Europe. We do not regret it, but these state aids are very little transparent: it is impossible to say how much each group has perceived exactly. Only six CAC40 groups show losses for 2020; ten have profits in excess of EUR 2 billion, some of which have been largely supported by the public authorities. Nevertheless, the CAC40 has announced 62,500 job cuts worldwide since the start of the health crisis, almost half of which in France, and others are to be feared. We are asking for this report to see a little more clearly and to know whether companies are truly virtuous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u108	The Coeuré Committee, together with the administration, has ensured a fairly precise follow-up of the number of companies that are assisted and their typology. We have the data you are asking for. Moreover, it must always be remembered that the companies which have been helped since the beginning of this crisis are in their vast majority of the TPEs and SMEs, which represent the bulk of the enterprises in our country, and which have all been accompanied. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u109	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u110	This amendment is dear to the heart of Valérie Rabault, the chairman of our group, who is also the rapporteur for the appropriations of the State's financial contribution trust account. The aim is for the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the heritage and financial situation of the Aéroports de Paris group in order to enable us to assess the evolution of this group in the light of the events that have taken place since the request for a referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u112	You are asking for a report on the group's assets and financial situation: all this information is public since ADP is a listed company. You will find all the legal and regulatory financial information that concerns them on their website. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u113	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u114	It is a request for a report on public expenditure dedicated to outsourcing and subcontracting in public services, which still amounts to 160 billion euros: 120 for public service delegations and 40 for service provision. We have seen that such a strategy lowers the quality of services while degrading public finances. It is therefore time to conduct an audit. That is what we are asking for in this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u116	The Bureau of the Finance Committee has already validated a fact-finding mission on outsourcing and all these subcontracts. I would like to join you in saying that we need to see more clearly: that is why we have launched this approach, which is the responsibility of Véronique Louwagie and Cendra Motin. We look forward to their conclusions with pleasure and impatience. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u118	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u119	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u120	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u121	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u122	The next item is the debate on recovery measures. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a series of questions and answers. Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u123	We are here today to discuss the recovery plan, or rather the choices it makes, because I think we all agree on its absolute necessity. Of the 100 billion that this stimulus plan represents, colossal by its amount and unprecedented by its ambition, 86 billion are borne by the state, in expenditure or in effort on revenues. The 100 billion of France's recovery plan, as stated by the Prime Minister on September 3rd in this same place, is the amount needed to regain our level of wealth from before the crisis in 2022. Before the crisis, let's talk about it: the situation in France at the time when it was struck by the crisis of the covid must strengthen us in the idea that recovery is not only possible, but that it is, above all, credible. To put it simply, at the beginning of 2020, the visionaries were green, unemployment was falling significantly and lastingly, and prospects were more than encouraging. The reforms initiated since 2017 had begun to bear fruit. In short, it was a strong country that was hit by the crisis. The recovery will be all the more successful. Let's be clear: no one claims we're out of this crisis. That is why we need to find a strategist state, a state that anticipates and anticipates future changes and challenges. This is the meaning of the massive effort towards the ecological transition and the green economy. The state cannot simply take out the cheque book. The question is less "How much? "For what? » Of course, I hear the remarks that too much money would be passed on to companies – as if healthy companies were something other than companies that hire! And then, of course, there is this little music according to which the Government and this majority, led by the President of the Republic, are the apostles of the most unbridled ultraliberalism. This denial of reality could make us smile if, in our country, it were confined to collective hallucination. Which ultraliberal country is investing €33 billion for ecology and energy transition? Which ultraliberal government spends €34 billion on competitiveness and the health of its economy? What majority at the service of unbridled and barrier-free globalisation is voting for a recovery plan that includes €36 billion for social cohesion? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen! Social cohesion is 36 billion euros. I would like to repeat this figure because it covers, very concretely, the safeguarding of employment, the accompaniment of persons with disabilities and the support of our youth, in particular by means of vocational training adapted to the reality of the world of work. It's also about supporting research, funding Segur's actions, and supporting our health care system, which is suffering and being severely tested by this crisis. The women and men who make it work deserve our full respect and attention. Social cohesion is also and above all solidarity – between the territories and towards the most fragile people. All these actions are costed and transparent, and so that everyone can measure the extent of the work done, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery publishes a scoreboard to monitor the progress of the main measures in the three strands of the recovery plan. One last figure to sum up France's choice and future: at the end of April 2021, 412280 contracts had been signed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is the ambition of this recovery plan, which we are debating today in this venerable forum, a place of debate where all opinions must be respected and all words heard. These are figures and, contrary to what is sometimes said, the figures do not lie and do not make a policy. Behind these figures are facts: ladies and gentlemen, let us respect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u124	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u125	Minister for Economy, Finance and Recovery, Minister for Public Accounts, we are here today to monitor your actions during the health crisis. After fifteen terrifying months marked by the covid-19 pandemic and its serious consequences for our society, we can finally consider recovering. The crisis has had a strong impact on our economy and the state has taken radical and unprecedented aid measures to support most businesses and ensure that our economy does not change. Today, we can finally hope for an end to the crisis, hoping that all our companies will recover at the end of this unprecedented period. Indeed, the State has provided aid: you have put in place a €100 billion recovery plan; But there are still many problems to be solved, and I have already alerted you on several occasions. Some entrepreneurs in my department have been hard hit – you know them, ministers – but the government has so far found no solution. These great forgotten of the solidarity fund and all the aid are numerous in France. This is all the more damaging as it has wiped out, or severely weakened, the economic development ambitions of a large number of project promoters. In particular, I am thinking of entrepreneurs who have had the bad luck or the audacity to invest on the eve of the crisis or during it. Unfortunately, as you know, these audacious people, who did not enter into any box that could trigger aid, found themselves without resources, with projects to be carried out but without being able to work because successive confinements and restrictions of opening prevented them from achieving turnover. This situation is all the more difficult for these entrepreneurs not only because they have been excluded from the solidarity fund but also because they have been forced to exhaust their cash and even their personal resources in order to meet the fixed costs associated with their facilities. Understand, gentlemen, the sense of abandonment and inequality that this situation brings to all these great forgotten people and their incomprehension with the famous "no matter what it costs." We must support all French people who have chosen to invest in our country's economic activity for the sake of its dynamism and our jobs. Another pitfall in the recovery plan, not least: many credits labeled "relaunch plan" had in fact already been announced and released – this is the case for many projects in my constituency. By helping to inflate the figures in the recovery plan, this process is part of a government communication strategy. However, these 100 billion would have to be truly new appropriations. Otherwise, you should tell us the amount of the appropriations actually created under the recovery plan so as not to mislead the French on its scale. Finally, I would like to alert you to the situation, which is insufficiently taken into account, of the assets that will have to undergo the lasting changes in our economy. Whole sectors, forced to reinvent themselves due to the evolution of our habits in the post-covid context, will not regain their pre-crisis level of activity. I am thinking in particular of the players in mobility and business services. The recovery plan does not offer enough solutions to these hundreds of thousands of assets that have invested for years in their field of activity because of the prospects then favourable and now called into question by the crisis. You must offer a horizon to all these French victims of serious injustice. It would be particularly interesting to provide for measures to accompany a transition from their work to adapt to the next world. There are still issues that need to be clarified and settled in the context of the revival of our economy to ensure that no one is left on the side. So, ministers, on all these issues, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u126	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u127	As the country enters a phase of re-opening, the French expect us to know that we will learn from the crisis the lessons that will not only restore our quality of life before the pandemic, but also go further, towards a society that has learned that it has an interest in promoting simply human proximity. Together, through general mobilization and solidarity, we have done useful work. I would like to say to you, Ministers, and to your administrations, my gratitude for the action you have taken. You have been able, at every moment, to take appropriate, sometimes stressful measures, such as confinements, curfews, travel restrictions and visits to our seniors in EHPADs. They have only been effective thanks to the constant, and still timely, commitment of our caregivers, life attendants, city doctors and the hospital, firefighters, law enforcement agencies and more generally all the care services involved. By controlling the epidemic situation through immunization and international cooperation, we can finally hope for a sustainable economic recovery. This is what the Institute's forecasts tell us, since growth is expected to reach about 6% in 2021, while growth in the European Union is expected to reach only 4.6%. We owe this resilience to the effectiveness of the emergency measures and the recovery plan we are discussing this afternoon. As part of the mission entrusted to me by the Government, I have seen that, on the ground, in all our regions, the recovery plan is having its full effect. Thus, in Morteau, Pequignet, the latest French watchmaking company, will be able to relocate the production of the microtechnical pieces that it previously had important. In Saint-Doulchard, near Vierzon, Michelin will be able to maintain the job on site, in its aircraft tire manufacturing plant; the support of France Recovery has convinced Michelin's headquarters to continue its investment projects. In Le Havre, the company Safran Nacelles, which is obviously experiencing a very marked decline in activity, is pleased to be able to rely on the long-term partial activity to maintain in the company skills that, if not, it would have so many difficulties to regain. In Bethune, the Atlantic Group, which specializes in boilers and heat pumps, has been supported by MaPrimeRénov', which allows it to offer fifty positions today to former employees of Bridgestone, a company which had signed an employment safeguard plan (PSE). Finally, in San-Nicolao, Haute-Corse, Corsica counter will launch, thanks to France's relaunch, a tool to transform damaged fruits, thus completing its range of products and services and continuing its development. These few examples show that a real transformation and development of our businesses are at work today in the country. The big question we were asking ourselves last September, when we started discussing the recovery plan, was the arbitrage between the speed of disbursement and the conditionality of aid. There was a need to design a stimulus plan that, on the one hand, is rapidly unfolding in our territories and businesses and, on the other, is driving our businesses and communities to transform by moving towards more sustainable production patterns. Today we can see that you have – and we have – placed the cursor in the right place. The calls for projects launched in the framework of France Recovery encourage companies and communities to engage in transformation projects in the direction of a more sustainable economy, more environmentally friendly production methods and job relocation. At the same time, speed is also at work, since 40% of the sums provided for in the recovery plan were disbursed, which was not earned in advance, the sums invested in the French economy being considerable. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is satisfied with the architecture of the recovery plan, with its implementation to date, and we will continue to ensure that it can benefit all our territories, all companies, large and small, so that each of them can embark on the necessary transformations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u128	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u129	More than a year ago, our country was making a leap into the unknown because of the health crisis. There was an urgent need to support all sectors affected. Many then rediscovered the virtues of the welfare state, of the interventionist state, especially those who denounced its inutility or even the obstacle it could constitute. We Socialists have always defended it and still defend it. Today the sinister must give way to recovery, fears of hope and uncertainty in forecasting. At a time when the world economy is rebuilding, our country cannot remain at the dock. This is a historic opportunity. Yet, despite figures that give rise to vertigo, a rigorous review of the measures announced and declined in favour of revival forces caution. Firstly, because, in addition to the amounts allocated and the arrangements put in place, we cannot make major public investments without defining the specific guidelines. On 13 April 2020, the President of the Republic referred to the need to build "a strategy where we could return to the long term, the possibility of planning". With the renewed legitimacy of the interventionist state, planning is certainly an idea for the future, especially to decarbonize our economy. It would make it possible to monitor investments and to ensure the sustainability of aid over time. Yet we fear that it is only a umpteenth gadget calling the nostalgia of the French for a theatrical but ineffective handle effect. After the ever-returned grievance books, this is the Office of the High Commissioner with no decision-making power. Moreover, if France compares itself, it desolates itself. We only allocate 4% of our national wealth to recovery, compared to 6% for Spain or 10% for the United States. Worse still, according to OFCE, the French Economic Observatory, the total amount of economic support measures committed between 2020 and 2022 is only 7.7% of GDP for France, compared with 8.8% for Germany and 23% for the United States. You may tell me, ministers, that quantity does not guarantee quality, but at the risk of stalling at a turning point. The same applies to the European Union, since the European recovery plan is estimated at EUR 750 billion when the one launched by the US President is equivalent to EUR 1550 billion, more than double the amount. At the time of a new triad formed by the United States, China and Europe, the effort undertaken by the latter must be at the level of its competitors. At the macro-economic level, therefore, the recovery effort seems insufficient, as evidenced by the fact that a second recovery plan does not appear to be totally excluded. It is in any case strongly requested by some economists, such as Jean Pisani-Ferry, who, on 6 May, called for his wishes "a second step" to "take over the lost ground completely". At the micro-economic level, the recovery effort is too weak. In fact, too few funds have been allocated. According to available data on Chorus, only 16 per cent of the funds allocated to the Recovery Plan mission were consumed. At this rate, only 57 per cent of the fiscal appropriations in the stimulus plan will have been spent by the end of the year. So the state does almost twice as much as it promised. There's an emergency, though. Successful recovery will also require the mobilization of carefully accumulated savings by some households in 2020, which amount to between 60 and 70 billion more than in a normal year. To that end, the Government encouraged the French to invest in national SMEs. This bet, interesting because it would make it possible to revive the latter, encounters two difficulties: first, these investments, which are particularly risky, need to be experienced in practice; Secondly, the range of investment offers has not been widened. Only existing funds have been labeled. Again, the means used do not meet the ambitions. Finally, at a time when industrial sovereignty is on all lips, too few resources have been allocated to science and technology, while the health crisis has demonstrated the link between innovation and health security. We regret that the stimulus plan did not provide funds for applied research projects in the field of biotechnology. However, led by public, private or partnership actors, the latter faces severe funding difficulties, particularly in the intermediate stages of maturity. The implementation of experimental phases, after proof of concept and initial but pre-market studies, which require heavy investments for a still high level of risk, is often difficult to finance. However, public, private and partnership projects at this level of development are numerous and promising. It is therefore essential to establish a financing instrument by Bpifrance. The Socialist and Related Group had proposed an amendment to this effect to the draft amending finance law for 2021; Unfortunately, it was rejected. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Does the Government intend to narrow the gap between the stated ambitions and the reality of the resources granted? More specifically, does it intend to carry out all the appropriations of the mission Recovery plan, mobilize savings more for SMEs and support strategic sectors, in particular biotechnology, to ensure our sovereignty?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u130	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u131	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues in the Republic Group for putting this issue on the agenda. The recovery plan, presented on 3 September, is indeed a massive investment by the State in the French economy and we share the Government's determined will to disburse as quickly as possible the EUR 100 billion earmarked: the more effective the disbursement will be, the more our country will have a chance of experiencing a powerful economic restart that will benefit all. The recovery plan, which is based on three pillars: ecology, competitiveness and cohesion, benefits both businesses, the most vulnerable audiences and local and regional authorities. With regard to enterprises, we should of course welcome the massive reduction in production taxes, of the order of EUR 10 billion in 2021, which benefits more than 600,000 companies, as well as the EUR 1 billion envelope for the relocation of industrial production to the territories. With regard to local and regional authorities, the challenge is twofold: on the one hand, they were more or less affected by the crisis because they had a scissor effect of less revenue and additional expenditure; On the other hand, they must be engines of recovery so that it becomes anchored in the territories, as close as possible to the needs of the ground. To this end, the France Recovery Plan foresees EUR 10.5 billion of aid to the communities, even if this sum actually includes emergency expenditure and recovery expenditure. I would particularly like to highlight the exceptional allocation of EUR 1 billion to support local investment, although the Agres Group regrets that it is contributing to the worsening of the remaining payments, which may seem questionable from an accounting point of view. Beyond the case of local and regional authorities, many of the measures in the recovery plan are very successful. I am not going to draw up a list here at the Prévert, but only to mention those which seem to me the most representative, starting with the success of MaPrimeRénov', 800,000 applications being expected by the end of the year when the target was 500,000. It is now necessary for the implementation to follow in order to enable the structure of the overall renovation sector to be structured. Another stimulus measure for which we see a real enthusiasm in our constituencies is support for the industry: calls for projects give rise to a strong appeal, as evidenced by their extension until September, as well as the flow of credits within the "Relaunch Plan" mission proposed in the amending finance bill that we have just adopted at first reading. The real success of these measures is that the information is clear and accessible to all. Our group is convinced that we can further improve the promotion of effective calls for projects and aid, which are now less well known, in order to make them accessible to all the public concerned: I am thinking in particular of the "off-the-shelf" funds, on which my colleague Benoit Potterie will have the opportunity to question the Government earlier. This is a great instrument to address a variety of issues, such as the fight against the artificialisation of the soil, the need for land for our businesses and the revitalization of the territories. We have a real challenge in further developing this fund and enabling it to be fully successful. Similarly, participatory loans do not appear to be successful. Of course, they are not the miracle solution to corporate debt, but they are quasi-equity that improves the balance sheet. Do you share on this point, Mr Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, the observation of a somewhat timid start-up of the scheme, and what solutions could be put in place to enhance the value of these loans? Finally, with regard to the fate of the rural world, we must speed up and facilitate the deployment of stimulus measures in rural areas, which are, let us not forget, the heart of our beautiful country and a source of creation of exceptional value. The recovery plan is a great opportunity to revive the French economy and enable it to respond to the challenges of tomorrow; The rapid disbursement testifies to its good calibration and, above all, to the involvement of all actors on the ground. It is therefore now necessary to continue the roll-out of the stimulus measures so that the growth, which we all need, is on track and gives us reason to hope again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u132	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u133	We have faced one of the biggest recessions since 1945. The recovery plan came in six months ago, in a context of urgency where the French economy was facing very great uncertainties – and our fears have unfortunately proved justified. This exceptional €100 billion plan is a continuation of the €470 billion already mobilised since March 2020 to finance emergency measures for companies and employees affected by the covid-19 health crisis. We must therefore ensure that its implementation is swift; We want this plan to be a structurally effective support tool, in line with its objectives. So I want to share with you, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, the questions many French people are asking today, starting with this one: where are we? On Monday 14 June, the Bank of France increased its growth forecast for the French economy this year to 5.75%; the governor bets on a strong rebound in the third and fourth quarters, considering that she will even have regained her pre-crisis level earlier than expected, from the beginning of 2022. We would, of course, welcome this rebound in our economy after a violent vacuum change in 2020. The IDU-I Group has approved the support arrangements for our economy and businesses. The challenge now is to ensure that all the appropriations provided for in this recovery plan will have an impact on the acceleration of potential growth. This requires, above all, that the plan be deployed as quickly as possible in our territories. But today, what is the situation on the ground? We observe that our fellow citizens are unable to find themselves in the face of administrative complexity; There is a real lack of pedagogy and simplicity on the part of our administration in the face of the proliferation of types of aid and the number of counters. It must be acknowledged that the practical implementation of the recovery plan seems somewhat arduous. Thus, you intend to deploy €70 billion by the end of the year out of the €100 billion announced until 2022 to drive the ecological transition, competitiveness, industrial recovery and cohesion of the territories. Of course we agree with these guidelines, but remember that at this stage only EUR 30 billion has been committed, of which only EUR 20 billion has been disbursed. However, thanks to the European Union, in July France will receive its first down payment of 5.2 billion out of the 40 billion it receives under the European Recovery Plan. It should be noted that this allows continental coordination, with shared orientations that will promote a more environmentally friendly and resilient economic model in order to avoid future crises. The road map for the economic, social and ecological reconstruction of the country you are presenting, Minister, unfortunately shows some limitations on the ground. The multiplication of the windows, I was talking about at the moment, and calls for all kinds of projects are the first great difficulty to solve, knowing that many SMEs or small municipalities do not have the human resources to respond to them. Companies are running under administrative procedures, they are not familiar with the circuits, they are not used to them. It is therefore necessary, Mr Minister, that the sub-prefects responsible for the revival in each department make a real effort of simplification and pedagogy. I am thinking, for example, of the wasteland processing fund, the clean-up part of which is administered by the Environmental Transition Agency, ADEME, while the development and revitalization of the city's cores is led by the regional prefects. The course of users of these calls for projects is sometimes a nightmare; They tell us: they get lost, which undermines the recovery that we all want. On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge the success of the calls for projects Resilience of industry and industry of the future, knowing that they are led by a single actor, which is a guarantee of efficiency: Bpifrance. Many projects were funded quickly, which is a real success factor for our young entrepreneurs and for our economic fabric. The 105 new projects selected, following calls for projects Resilience industry, now represent a potential of 6,700 job creations, which we welcome. Finally, I would like to stress that there can be no recovery without employment. We would therefore like the Government to tell Parliament, so that we can know where public money goes for businesses, what is the share of the money spent on safeguarding existing jobs and what is spent on creating new jobs, especially in the digital and environmental transition sectors. You are talking to us about a second phase of the recovery plan, but we would have hoped that instead of focusing on a revival of the existing one, or even contenting ourselves with it, this plan would be further oriented towards the transformation of our economy for a more resource-efficient transition, better distributed in the territories, helping to catch up with our digital lag and, above all, favouring industrial relocation in the strategic areas that make us independent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u134	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u135	In search of our lost growth... the Government is trying to bring us back to the happy times, to the restored time of recovery. The first point is that these stimulus measures are once again part of the policy of the open budget, in which we always fall a little further by giving up any effort on expenditure. The Government is doing an easy exercise, ministers, as it is always a pleasure to distribute money unilaterally, without any control. But, in the absence of any effort to save money, this leads to a single result: an uncontrolled increase in public spending. And I am not alone in saying this: the High Council for Public Finance already reports an increase of almost €66 billion in public expenditure since 2020. Second point: France's weight was artificially inflated to reach the symbolic level of 100 billion euros, a round figure in addition and, in reality, at the limit of propaganda. The Court of Auditors points out that the State's share is limited to 64 billion budget appropriations, far from 100 billion, especially since you have maintained some confusion between emergency measures, recovery measures and transitional measures. Mr Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, you told us that France Recovery was the most massive of European plans, but is that really the case? Germany's recovery plan is 130 billion, which, even if adjusted for differences in GDP, is even higher than ours. The third point is that the support or transition arrangements have been more or less successful. It is undeniable that some of the support measures deployed by the State have been useful: I am thinking in particular of the partial activity and the solidarity fund, the last budgetary collective still spending $9.8 billion on the mission that finances these arrangements. But again, haven't we gone too far? And then other schemes have had a smaller efficiency: I am thinking of the famous PGEs, these loans guaranteed by the state with a ceiling of 300 billion euros. This tool must be extended by the new amending finance bill, although it has not been targeted at those who really need it. The amount of EMPs identified by the banks at the beginning of 2021 to 134 billion, the problem being that we offer a security mattress to companies that did not need it, as shown by the huge increase in deposits on the bank accounts of companies – we are talking about 50 billion – while the first rule taught in a business school is that of zero cash. They use these loans to finance a security mattress and not at all to invest or meet specific working capital or other needs. In addition, all these support and stimulus schemes have generated, and will generate, windfall effects and fraud. In this respect, I look forward to the inquiry which the Court of Auditors will not fail to carry out and whose conclusions will be delivered to Parliament. Fourth point: the state of consumption of the mission's credits Recovery plan shows a particularly slow disbursement, while our economy needs an immediate response. The start-up was laborious in 2020, with only €4.3 billion disbursed, and this continues at the same rate in 2021. Of course, the appropriations allocated under the initial finance law for this mission amount to 36.1 billion in commitment appropriations and 21.8 billion in payment appropriations, distributed among the programmes Ecology, Competitiveness and Cohesion, and I note with satisfaction that this is essentially an intervention and investment expenditure of 78 % and 10 % respectively, and very little operating expenditure – only 11 % fortunately. But where are we, halfway? At the beginning of June, the state of consumption of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations remains weak. For example, on the Ecology programme, excluding Title 2, only $3.5 billion was consumed out of $17.9 billion, i.e. only 19% of total commitment authorities and 14% of payment appropriations, whereas we are already half a year away. The fifth and final point is that, down from the imperative of a short-term recovery, appropriations are part of long-term reforms, up to 2030. Apart from the slow pace I have mentioned, the real problem is that this plan mobilizes amounts primarily oriented towards a profound transformation of our economic fabric in a decade. The Government is neglecting the challenge of a short-term revival of our economy, as the bulk of the credits are in principle spread over 2022-2023, or even later. The measures you finance, such as energy renovation or the development of green hydrogen, cannot be improvised. On the other hand, I must point out that all the economists who have worked on the policies of recovery through investment have made the same observation: investment expenditure is slowly being realized. Many recovery plans have had counter-cyclical effects, as they often reach their peak at the time of a strong recovery, resulting in an overheating of the economy, and then they stop and risk creating a depression. This recovery plan therefore poses risks to efficiency, but it is a posteriori that we can really assess it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u136	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u137	You will not be surprised to hear me say this: I do not believe that the Government has really built a recovery plan. This is not one, since it provides 100 billion euros of intervention in the economy – which should remind some that the market is powerless without the state: yet we have lost 8 points of wealth produced. To compensate them, it would take $180 billion. Moreover, it would still take almost 200 billion more to be at the level of the commitments made under COP21: this naturally has nothing to do with the 100 billion we are talking about. Nor is the European Union on board: it is planning a plan of 750 billion, 380 of which are in the form of loans. At European level, however, the crisis has led to the loss of 950 billion euros of wealth. Even without doing anything, the simple restarting of activity will lead to quite admirable growth rates which, in reality, will not be so: it is enough to refer to the delay that it took, after 2008, to regain the level of pre-crisis production to get an idea. The Government's plan is thus a missed opportunity: we could have taken advantage of it to carry out the ecological bifurcation – already mentioned by several colleagues – which is necessary or, if we do not believe it, at least to reconstruct the industrial production lines that we need, and for which tools exist – I will say a word in a moment. The money given by the European Union will be more expensive than it will bring back, since we pay and we will pay back. In addition, it asks us in exchange for anti-social reforms – such as the return of pension reform, to which you yourself have subscribed, Minister. I invite you to reflect on the request of the President of the MEDEF, whom I very much echo in this rostrum. Above all, don't go into a dangerous class struggle at a time when we don't need it. If this reform were to be debated in the framework of the presidential election, the French would settle: it would be much more reasonable. If we compare the European Union's plan to what the United States is doing, the difference is clear. There, 4000 billion are mobilised – it is not in common with the 750 billion poor in Europe – including 2300 billion for infrastructure – it is true that they were below everything – and ecological investments, and 1800 billion for public services and popular consumption. In France, there is nothing in favour of popular consumption. Yet poverty reduction measures are one of the main drivers of consumption: the poor are naturally the first to use the means they are given to dress, feed, heat, shelter or move. But they won't get anything. The billions that will be given to companies will be unconditionally and without consideration. I want to dwell on this for a moment because it is absolutely immoral. Reports show that in the United States, bosses find it normal to comply with the conditions set by the state. Their reasoning is very simple: since he pays, he has the right to order. In France, we have the right to ask, as a minimum, that companies do not do, the year they are going to be beaten with money, carry back, without ceiling, on their results. We have the right to ask them, at a minimum, not to distribute more dividends than they have made, as we see this year. Above all, we have the right to ask companies that we are going to water against logic. I am thinking of Renault: we will give it 5 billion unconditionally, even though only one in seven cars purchased in France is produced by Renault in France. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this point: we are at least entitled to ask leading French industries, which have no difficulty as to the value of what they are able to produce, to honour their orders, which allow small businesses to be kept afloat. For example, a week ago I was at the MBF Aluminium foundry in Saint-Claude. Why relocate production to Spain? That Renault at least honour its orders, and no matter the reasons of the group that made the decision, that we do not allow this to happen if it receives public money. The same applies to the foundries of the Poitou in Vienna, the foundry of Brittany in Morbihan or the foundry of the Alvance Aluminium Wheels in Indre, whose employees were, two days ago, in front of the doors of the National Assembly. They're still holding their arms: they've made all the effort they've requested. What more can they do? They are subject to the employer's arbitrariness, which decides to relocate. Minister, when will you say "who pays, orders" and when we give money, we demand to be respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u138	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u139	We are not just here to comment on the recovery plan: the debate is more broadly about recovery measures. So I'm going to talk to you about the explicit shortcomings in support of household purchasing power. Already, in the emergency measures component, only 1.5 billion – including premiums – was targeted at households, even though 20 per cent of families were getting poorer and 1 million people were below the poverty line. Among the stimulus measures, the issue of wages is completely absent – as it has been since 2017. The Government bears a heavy responsibility for the difficulties that our fellow citizens have accumulated: you have systematically rejected any significant increase in SMIC, hijacking you on the subject by convening a conference on wages with the social partners. Even Segur is more unhappy than satisfied. The same applies to the social minima, whose upgrading is completely absent from your political calendar. In addition, the reform of unemployment insurance, the refusal of an autonomous allowance for young people between 18 and 25 years of age, and the postponement of a levelling of pensions from the bottom: all the famous structural reforms which will one day have to be deconstructed. From the outset, we can see that your stimulus measures are essentially geared towards re-establishing the profit margins of large companies and wealthy categories – Charles de Courson mentioned the reconstitution of mattresses. At the end of the day, the issue of public debt is in the background. Charles de Courson – whom I am constantly quoting, but it must be said that he spoke a lot this afternoon – told us that it represents 90,000 euros per household. That's what you're going to look for in the pockets of the French and in public spending budgets: that's what you're announcing. Of course, I see you already sighing or smiling at the caricature of government action that would be the work of the Communist deputies. Yet we see a complete break in the balance between those who succeed and those who sink into difficulties at the moment when you want to talk, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, about recovery. I went fast so I could ask you a question and comment on it. I will mention a number of measures, for you to find out who proposes them: the substantial revalorisation, in the very short term, of the minimum old age, the active solidarity income (FSA) and the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH), and the immediate revalorisation of the individualised housing assistance (APL) and the housing solidarity fund (FSL) with a State-department contract; the immediate opening of negotiations with digital operators to set up an unlimited package in crisis situations and the creation of social pricing, based on the model of the energy cheque; the introduction of a resource allocation for young people between 18 and 25 years of age; the return to a systematic human presence at all reception points in the public sector and therefore, it is implied, a hiring policy in the public service; the establishment of a school catch-up plan; Finally, the automaticity, for example, of complementary health care at no cost. Who can write all this? Communists? It would not be surprising if such proposals came from the benches of the left. However, these are proposals that can be found in the report of the National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Exclusion (CNLE), which is chaired by a member of the majority and which brings together some of the most prominent experts and community leaders. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] I will conclude by simply saying: Ministers, what are you waiting for to turn these proposals into action, in order to accompany the stimulus measures with a real social dimension? When one finds that the Government has not made an effort at the level of other European countries, what is lacking? That's the social aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u140	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u141	The effects of the health crisis will be sustained. But the crisis is not just health, it is also economic. On this point, our majority can welcome the Government's mobilization to save businesses and support private employees. Everyone knows the budgetary effort that has been made to enable traders, restaurants, theatres and cinemas to move on. Beyond that, I want to talk to you about what we want to build to enable France to face the challenges of the 21st century, namely ecological transition, cohesion and competitiveness. On 20 September, a €100 billion recovery plan was launched: €10 billion was committed in 2020 and already €16 billion has been committed since January. This is a considerable effort by our fellow citizens: 30 billion for ecology, 34 billion for competitiveness and 36 billion for cohesion. All of this contributes to the recovery of our country, with a vision that brings structural choices for the future that revolve around a coordinated response to environmental, economic and social challenges. The crisis we are facing is a crucial moment to restore the balance of the territories. I am going to tell you about rural France, the one which, for forty years, has experienced a form of economic abandonment in the name of the concentration of resources around the major urban centres. The recovery plan is aimed at it, because it feeds the means of relocating our industry, by innovation, by lowering production taxes and by helping to hire young people. The recovery plan is aimed at rural France, by accompanying the French in the ecological transition. The bonuses and bonuses for conversion to clean vehicles thus particularly affect rural areas, where imagine that you can do without individual cars is utopian. There, we must help the French: almost 180,000 bonuses and 156,000 bonuses have been awarded – this is a concrete ecology for our fellow citizens. Another key aspect is the relocation of the economy. The food chain is an example of this action that we have been taking since the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all (EGALIM): it is a matter of regaining our sovereignty. I will focus on the forest-wood sector, which is often ignored but concerns 440,000 jobs. As an elected member of the Aude, she particularly touches me. The upper Aude valley has been a strong place in this sector through the production of formica and laminate panels. In the early 2000s, this production was relocated, resulting in the loss of hundreds of jobs by leaving an industrial wasteland there. We will not go back to history, but we can build the future, perhaps by diversifying and investing, for example, in wood chemistry and more generally in bio-economy. With innovation, Aude has the opportunity to count again for the wood industry. Developed with the forest communes, the brand "Bois des Pyrénées" registers the wood economy in our territory. The processing industry must be able to follow. In this sense, the recovery plan allows for a virtuous movement between innovation and the circular economy. Julien Denormandie has committed strategic resources – 150 million euros – to improve the resilience of forests to climate change. As he rightly says, it is about helping "the ecological conversion of our economy and our productive fabric, safeguarding jobs and ensuring our sovereignty." Today's environmental resilience is the jobs of today and tomorrow. In our territory, a sawmill, it is the assurance of the preservation of added value and the development of know-how that sets jobs on the spot. In addition to EUR 150 million for forest renewal, the recovery plan provides EUR 15 million for the modernisation of sawmills. In addition, support for the competitiveness to which downstream forest entrepreneurs can claim, in the area of taxation, business financing, under the export support plan and technological sovereignty. A rural department like mine will be able to benefit from this effort to bring about the transformation of its economy, thanks to innovative SMEs and mid-cap companies and sustainable use of local resources. Our majority accelerates the effort for thermal renovation of buildings. For public buildings alone, 4214 projects were selected. Let us also consider the constructions of wood, wood and concrete or of wood and steel and the development of eco-materials: the wood and eco-materials bottom, managed by Bpifrance, benefits from an abundance of 5 million euros. Promoting local wood is possible without attacking our forests. Since we harvest just over half of the annual growth, we can increase the levies by guaranteeing their future. At the time of recovery, it is an asset for the circular economy. Rural areas, which have been cut off from the major centres of the economy, are becoming attractive again, not only because of the quality of life there, but also because they are the heart of the bio-based economy that our century must adopt in order to meet the challenges it faces. It is through such support of enterprise projects and such a structuring of the sectors that the EUR 100 billion of the recovery plan brings the concrete effects that the economy needs. The recovery plan allows for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u142	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u143	Before you mention the recovery plan and its disbursement, you will allow me to express my surprise at two points. If I have listened carefully to all of you, for criticism is always welcome, two misconceptions must be denounced. First of all, we would not have supported the most modest households, the demand, the smallest enterprises, those that faced the greatest difficulties during the crisis. That's not true. Mr Wulfranc, the beneficiaries of MaPrimeRénov', in the recovery plan, thus belong for two thirds to the most modest households. While France lost almost 8% of its business in 2020, it managed to maintain, or even increase, the purchasing power of all French people. Beyond the EUR 100 billion spent on recovery, we spent successively in 2020 and 2021, EUR 73 billion to protect employees and the most modest and to prevent the economic crisis from being accompanied by a social crisis. Secondly, I am astonished – even if, after all, at this time, nothing surprises – that France, by Mr Mélenchon's voice, is so fascinated by the United States of America. Let France submit to the United States and Washington: I had to wait until I was 52 years old to attend such a show. Listening to Mr Mélenchon, no one would do better than the United States of America, no one would be so binding on companies, no one would have spent more and had a better social safety net! I would simply remind Mr Mélenchon and France, before they kneel before the American model, that the European model provides for a social safety net, leads to spending billions of euros to protect employees and to commit state-guaranteed loans to avoid waves of bankruptcy. I prefer the European and French model to the American model and I prefer the way in which we resisted the crisis in 2020, rather than the approach chosen by the United States of America. This is the difference between La France insubmissive and this majority. I'm coming to the recovery plan. It was an absolutely considerable challenge, first because of the amount. How can 100 billion euros be committed in such a fast time? It was also a challenge in terms of efficiency: after the most serious crisis since 1929, how can the French economy be revived, the economic machine restarted to avoid bankruptcy and create jobs throughout the territories? Finally, it was a challenge in view of the very original financing arrangements of the plan, since I would like to point out that EUR 60 billion comes from the state budget and EUR 40 billion from European appropriations, some of which have been lifted by common debt. As you know, we owe this singularity and this act of major integration of the European Union and the European States to the agreement reached between Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron. Well, this challenge of the recovery plan, we are meeting it collectively: we are in the process of successfully reviving the French economy, after having succeeded together the protection of the French economy. Once again, beyond the criticisms and debate that are welcome because they allow us to do better, we should all be proud to see that France and the European Union managed to protect their economies, employees and businesses in 2020 and that France is succeeding in the economic recovery in 2021. We reach the most important goal for all, which seemed inaccessible a few months ago: jobs, work and activity for all French people. We found strong growth as early as 2021 and set off to regain the level of economic activity we had before the crisis in the first quarter of 2022, when it seemed out of reach. First of all, we owe it to the French, who have recovered to work and to consume, very quickly. We owe it to the French who used the stimulus package. They would have been useless if our fellow citizens had not changed their vehicles by making extensive use of the conversion premium and the bonuses for the purchase of electric vehicles. The recovery plan would have been useless if the French had not renovated their buildings and housing. They have done so massively: 325000 MaPrimeRenov' aids have been granted, since the launch of the scheme and its strengthening in the recovery plan. I would therefore like to thank our compatriots immensely: if the economy restarts in France, we owe it first to the French. We also owe it to the local elected representatives, whose commitment I welcome. I know that at the outset, the arrangements were complex, that they had to be simplified, set in motion, ensure that the sub-prefects for recovery were available for mayors and for the presidents of the communities of communes, and ensure that the prefects provided all the necessary details, particularly for the smaller communes. We heard the critics and corrected the shot. The result is that the local elected officials played the game a lot and I also want to thank them. Thanks to them, the renovation of public buildings, the renovation of schools is under way, which makes the construction and public works sector turn around, whose companies are faced not with a shortage, but with an excess of demands, so that the real problem today, as you all know, is first of all that of access to raw materials and their prices and that of recruitment. I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the State will not apply penalties in the event of delays in the execution of public contracts. I invite public authorities to do the same for construction and public works contractors. We also owe this success to the entrepreneurs, who immediately used the devices. We all knew that industrial SMEs were lagging behind in digitisation. We have therefore introduced a tax credit, which we have pushed them to use, with a provision of EUR 280 million. In the space of a few months, almost EUR 1 billion of applications were submitted by entrepreneurs to digitise their SMEs. I therefore extend a huge thank you to the entrepreneurs who have played the game of recovery and who allow us to record such results. Finally, we also owe this success to all the parliamentarians who have committed themselves to France's revival, who have beaten the campaign to explain the arrangements, and, like Jean-Noël Barrot, have carried out a remarkable effort of efficiency and rigour on the territorialisation of the recovery plan and on the access to the arrangements of the most remote territories. I would like to thank all of you very much. The result is here. It is collective: we owe it to the French, local elected representatives, entrepreneurs, consumers and parliamentarians. It is a model of what France must achieve in order to succeed: to work in solidarity and not in isolation, together and not against each other. As I speak to you, EUR 36 billion of the recovery plan has been disbursed. My goal is that, by the end of 2021, out of the 100 billion planned and voted, 70 billion euros will be committed, and a large part of this money will be disbursed by the end of 2021. The last reason why the plan is moving forward and working is that you voted early and it was implemented very quickly. I would point out that the "1 young person, 1 job" scheme was launched at the end of August 2020, because we anticipated a difficult return and we had to support the hiring of young people in CDI or in apprenticeships by companies. This is the anticipation which allows us to achieve such results and which authorizes the Banque de France to grant France one of the best estimates of growth in the euro area, of 5.75% by 2021, although, for my part, I maintain the government's growth forecast at 5%, taking into account possible health hazards. What's left for us to do? What's in front of us? Once again, we must ensure that we respond to the criticisms and requests for simplification and territorialisation – notably those of Jean-Noël Barrot – that you have made. With my teams, whom I thank in passing, and the Secretary-General of the recovery plan, we are constantly examining, at a weekly rate, where we are, which can be improved, the answers to the criticisms of the elected field officials you are. This is the first and most important emergency. The second is to ensure that all territories, without exception, take advantage of the credits from the recovery plan, use them to restart their economies and that this restart results in jobs. The priority of the French, which I share, is recovery and, behind the recovery, employment. Finally, we must reflect on the question that you have raised and which is perfectly legitimate: are additional investments needed to increase the growth potential of our country and that of the European Union, in the face of China's rise in power and American acceleration? This legitimate debate was initiated by the President of the Republic. As much as I do not believe that we need a second recovery plan, I think it is useful to think together about the complementary investments needed to increase France's growth potential and to open, for the first time in decades, new value chains in our country – in the sectors of hydrogen, electric batteries, semiconductors, whose strategic importance was seen during the crisis, quantum computing, cloud, space, launchers. We started to do it. Perhaps it will be necessary to add additional resources to finance these new value chains, which will accelerate industrial relocation in our country. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and I wish to provide answers in this debate in the coming weeks. Investment must concern not only the companies, factories and value chains that I have just mentioned, but also, perhaps more importantly, skills, because it seems to me that the biggest challenge for France is to invest in know-how, training and skills. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hear what was said about the foundries. They've been taking care of me for weeks and weeks. These are 15,000 direct jobs, employees who have not demerited, who have skills and know-how. They are often located in remote locations. Of course, the fate of the Saint-Claude foundry in the Jura affects me, of course, that I am very close to the question of the foundries of the Poitou or Brittany, but, behind it, there is a reality: the environmental transition leads to the slow disappearance of the thermal motors in favour of electric motors which occupy an increasingly important place. It is therefore necessary either to find new opportunities for these foundries or to requalify employees and give them new job opportunities. This is one of the essential work we have to do: investing in skills for activity and employment. It is a debate that I think is very beneficial and useful in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u144	We come to the second part on questions. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. President Ferrand wants us to abide by these rules: everyone will ensure that this is the case. Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u145	The recovery plan is an opportunity for our territories. It is massive and unprecedented. The many fields and sectors concerned bear witness to the will, ambition and vision of our country's future: digital, ecology, youth, employment, training, agriculture, industry. The numerous applications received by the various departments for calls for projects demonstrate its success. Opportunities are offered to individuals, associations, businesses, administrations and communities alike. To implement this recovery plan, sub-prefects have been appointed in some territories. This is the case in my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis. The territorial scoreboard shows the investments already made in my department: 50 million euros have been distributed as part of the local investment support allocation (DSIL), 70 companies will benefit from 7.5 million euros under the "industry of the future" window, 900000 euros have been allocated to seven anti-poverty associations. Most of this funding is based on calls for projects to be addressed by the actors concerned. However, it requires not only the mobilization of many resources, in engineering, human skills or infrastructure, but also the rich economic fabric. History, the evolution of our lifestyles and local policies have helped to create great disparities between territories. Until 2014 there was the interdepartmental delegation to spatial planning and regional attractiveness, the DATAR, the authority responsible for preparing the guidelines and implementing the national policy for the planning and development of the national territory. The recovery plan could be a unique opportunity to give new impetus to rebalance the attractiveness of our territories and new horizons for the inhabitants, relying in particular on relocations. How can the measures of the recovery plan, which are essentially based on a call for projects, have an impact on non-attractive areas where the human and economic resources needed to develop projects are insufficient? How can the sub-prefects of the revival appointed in these territories be the force of proposal and have the room for manoeuvre necessary for more proactive action by the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u146	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u147	The choice that has been made, I want to reassure you, is that of a deconcentrated commitment of appropriations: two thirds of the appropriations are treated at the deconcentrated level, because we believe that a prefect of a department or region is much better able to know what the most sensible investments are. I give you a typical example. On hydrogen, we invest more than 7 billion euros. The territory of Belfort has positioned itself to host a company that will produce electrolysers, the McPhy company. This project was educated at the prefect level with local actors and local companies: we finally met the demand of local elected officials and the prefect to support the establishment of the McPhy plant in Belfort, which represents nearly 400 jobs in the production of green hydrogen. We will continue with this approach: to ensure that local applications are processed by sticking to the field as closely as possible. It's the best method: it's the one that best responds to your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u148	[[Smile]] Mr Sylvain Templier, to whom I would like to remind you that the two-minute rule applies even to those who have a personal connection with Lucq-de-Béarn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u149	I'll try to respect her, Mr. President. Rural areas, such as Lucq-de-Béarn, are actors affected by all the transitions, be they technological, agricultural, demographic or economic. At the end of the confinements, they attract and seduce many Frenchmen, perhaps in an idealized way, of course, but the interest and promise of a more pleasant, calmer and greener environment are very real. Rural areas bring many benefits to the rest of the country. They must be energized, accompanied and valued. The recovery plan thus offers great opportunities. In Haute-Marne, where I am elected, 430 communes are in so-called rural revitalization zones (ZRR): this is one of the most affected departments. The objective of the ZRRs is to support the development of these territories through fiscal and social measures. The aid supports job-creating structures in these less populated areas, affected by demographic and economic decline. The first figures show that the ZRRs benefited from 22% of France's exceptional municipal allocation envelope; 5 billion of the recovery plan was allocated to rural areas and helped boost the rural agenda and the ecological transition of the territories. There are many levers affected: digital coverage, territorial food projects, revival of night trains or small railway lines, support for the agricultural transition. We can add the question of employment and I would like to welcome the plan "1 young person, 1 solution". More than 1,300 young people in Haut-Marnais benefited in 2020, including 542 apprenticeship contracts and 222 hiring bonuses. Minister, can you give us an initial assessment of all the recovery measures that are irrigating the ZRRs? Does the Government intend to extend some of them in order to support locally developed projects? Does it also consider meeting the aspirations of many of our fellow citizens to settle in these territories and thus contribute to their renewal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u150	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u151	Your question gives an initial assessment: €5 billion has been spent on rural development, in line with the commitments made by the Prime Minister at the Interministerial Committee on Rural Development (ICR) last November. We have ensured, both in our responsibilities as an exceptional DSIL and in the provision of equipment for rural territories (DETR) and in the allocation of the various projects, to accompany the most vulnerable territories, the ZRRs for rural areas, but also the priority districts of the city policy (QPV), and that the projects from which they can benefit represent more than their share of population, territory or wealth produced. We have also implemented engineering tools. I am thinking in particular of the intervention of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (ANCT) to accompany departments and other communities in the animation of territorial contracts for the revival and energy transition (CRTE). We carry out actions through the prefects and sub-prefects responsible for recovery. When there are none in a department, prefects must designate a member of the prefectural body to pilot the recovery plan on a departmental scale. We have implemented a system of territorial volunteers for administration, with financial support from the State over periods of 12 to 18 months, allowing local authorities to rely on engineering skills, usually young graduates, financed by the State: fifty posts have already been allocated and 250 mission cards are known and listed. We are, of course, ensuring that the rural areas, especially the most vulnerable, are covered by the recovery plan. This has led us to give and request that additional time be given for the filing of certain files on calls for projects in the field of thermal and energy renewal, as well as to ensure that the exceptional DSIL granted either last summer or as part of the thermal renovation is extended to the same criteria as the DETR, so as not to exclude any community from the benefit of these aids.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u152	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to put her first question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u153	The confidence of entrepreneurs is essential to the success of our country's economic recovery. In particular, I believe that it is very important to reassure companies that have used State-guaranteed loans (GLP) to try to overcome the crisis. Here we are talking about 680,000 French companies and 140 billion euros of PGE, including 1 billion for 6000 companies in the department of Maine-et-Loire. This is necessary to safeguard the economic players, but the bill will have to be paid sooner or later. Initially, you anticipated that the repayment of EMPs would start, in whole or in part, after a year. You then authorized the postponement of one year. Not only may this carry-over not be sufficient, but business leaders also need visibility. Many companies struggle to return to normal activity. For some, this only delays the deadline. They are kept alive by debt. The outstanding amount of company appropriations exceeds EUR 1100 billion. Over-indebtedness and defaults are and will unfortunately be inevitable. We have a real time bomb here: we all have to defuse it together. EMPs cannot be an adjustment variable or a means of spreading bankruptcies over time. The goal must be to save our businesses. The State must make strong commitments over time in order to continue to support and support French TPEs and SMEs. Minister, what measures are envisaged to give our businesses more flexibility in spreading the repayment of their debts? How will you accompany them very concretely to deal with this heavy threat of over-indebtedness?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u154	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u155	First of all, I want to reassure you about the over-indebtedness of companies. When we look at net debt and not gross debt, it is between €5 billion and €7 billion in additional net debt. In fact, many companies have subscribed to loans, including EMPs, but have not used them: they have built up cash reserves. We can therefore face this difficulty. As far as EMPs are concerned, I do not believe that it is a service to companies to extend the deadlines for repayment of debts on an ongoing basis. At some point, you have to pay back. We simply agreed, as you recalled, to postpone the start of the refund by one year, because, for restaurants, bars, hotels that have subscribed to the EMPs, the season is only starting again: so it is better to wait for them to have a season that, I hope, will be exceptional this summer, for them to start the refund in April, May or June 2022, rather than in April, May or June 2021. We have also authorized companies that wish to do so to subscribe to new EMPs until the end of 2021. Some still need cash and prefer to borrow: they still have the opportunity to do so. Finally, a company that would be in a collective reorganization proceeding could obtain an additional spread of the EMP's repayment, but on an exceptional basis. Éric Dupond-Moretti and I have presented an accompanying scheme for companies in difficulty to avoid bankruptcies. I am not going back to that, but I believe that we have anticipated this risk for both SMEs and ITEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u156	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u157	I would also like to ask you about the difficulties faced by tourism companies. In the context of the draft amending finance law currently under consideration in Parliament, the Government has provided EUR 15 billion for new accompanying measures in the sector. This is indeed necessary because we see that tourism companies are struggling to restart. The activity will take time to regain its level of front, and the gradual exit of the aid schemes is a matter of great concern. According to their representatives, up to 30% of cafes, hotels and restaurants could fail. That would be dramatic for our country. As we know, the resumption of activity unfortunately remains constrained, the pandemic still imposes health restrictions, but professionals also mention important supply problems and we hear every day about difficulties in hiring in hotels and restaurants. If we want to move from a logic of urgency to a real logic of recovery, we need particularly strong and voluntary measures. Minister, apart from the "one young person, one solution" plan, what measures are you planning to take to boost youth employment in this sector? What is your road map to remedy the difficulties I have just mentioned? What mechanisms do you intend to implement to address the supply problems of professionals? Finally, will you take, for the tourist and coastal areas – I am thinking of the territory of my colleague, Michèle Tabarot, the Alpes-Maritimes, and mine, the Loire Valley and the Saumurois – a support measure similar to that which you have taken for the mountain resorts, namely the compensation of the fixed charges of the farms? These areas expect much support and support from the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u158	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u159	I will try to answer these specific questions in two minutes, focusing on two points. I share your analysis of the two main challenges facing the tourism sector: raw materials supply and recruitment. On the first point, yesterday I held a meeting with Emmanuelle Wargon, Deputy Minister for Housing, and Alain Griset, Deputy Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, with all the actors involved in building and public works. We proposed mediation and decided not to impose a late payment penalty for public contracts. I will sign and have a circular issued within the next few hours to clarify that government tenders will not be subject to a late payment if the contractors have not been able to complete their work in a timely manner because they have not been able to obtain timber or scrap. I insist that all those who can, including local authorities and large order-giving companies, follow the example of the State. I ask them not to apply a late payment penalty when a building and public works contractor is faced with a raw material supply problem. If a conflict erupts, if difficulties arise or if abuses are detected, the role of the business mediator would be to find a solution. As far as recruitment is concerned, I confirm what you are saying: whether it is the roofers or the hotel and catering industry, there are difficulties in recruiting. The aim of the schemes announced today by Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, is precisely to speed up the training of young people and enable them to find employment in these occupations, for which jobs are to be filled very quickly. The actors in the UNHCR sector – hotels, cafes and restaurants – were, as you said, particularly affected by the health crisis. The State has strongly supported them and its support will be phased out for the three main schemes. Partial activity is maintained until the end of August, but degression is applied. The Solidarity Fund is subject to the same scheme: the aid will be set at 40% of the turnover loss in June 2021 compared to June 2020, then at 30% in July 2021 compared to July 2020, and at 20% in August 2021 compared to August 2020, with a re-visit clause at the end of August to verify that particular difficulties do not arise for certain professionals. Finally, we continue to co-finance the wage bill by 15% in June, July and August.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u160	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u161	My question also concerns the tourist economy and more particularly the CHRD – cafes, hotels, restaurants, discotheques. Tourists begin to return to France to admire our heritage and enjoy our art of living. The weather is superb and the curfew will soon be lifted, which will allow us to enjoy a conviviality found until the end of the night – little wink at the reopening of the discotheques! In a word, all the visionaries are green so that the summer is warm and that France becomes once again the must-see destination, envied all over the world because it is good to live there. The tourism economy was particularly affected by the health crisis, and in particular the CHRD, which, however, received massive aid. I don't think we're heading for 30% of balance sheet deposits, minister, unless we can't solve the recruitment problems in this industry. The Bank of the Territories and Bpifrance provided more than €3 billion in financing between 2020 and 2023 in the form of loans and equity investments. Couldn't much of this be spent on supporting CHRD professionals in the training of their employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u162	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u163	I agree with you, Member. We will indeed have an exceptional tourist season in France this summer. The latest data on credit card purchases show that the activity has started very strongly, particularly in the CHRD sector. The costs incurred are high, as well as the level of hotel bookings. These various indicators are on the rise. In fact, the question you raise is more structural than cyclical. We need to encourage younger generations to move to the CHRD sector, which is heavily hiring and will have recruitment problems in the days and weeks to come. Training organizations will face the challenge of rapidly training a growing number of young people in the tourism trades. These are beautiful trades, which offer the possibility of a rich career full of experience. It is up to us to value the CHRD's trades so that they no longer encounter recruitment problems in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u164	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u165	The health crisis has had a significant impact on housing construction, but it has only worsened the decline in recent years. The number of construction sites and permits issued has decreased sharply since 2018, so much so that the Prime Minister himself, on 17 May, referred to "a structural slowdown in the production of new housing". This slowdown is due in particular to the decline in the working capital of social donors, linked to the reduction of solidarity rent, as well as to the uncertainties related to the reorganization of donors provided for in the Law on Housing, Development and Digital Development, the ELAN Act. Unfortunately, the health crisis has only added difficulties and the number of building permits is still much lower than its level before the first confinement. Permitted housing, on the other hand, stabilized at a level below the 12-month average prior to the first confinement. In one year, between March 2020 and February 2021, 377000 dwellings were authorised for construction, 17% less than in the previous 12 months. Unfortunately, the start-ups followed the same trend, albeit less strongly, as they fell by 4.1%. This crisis is now affecting social housing, which usually stimulates production when other sectors slow down. The scarcity of land also leads to competition between private and social housing to the detriment of the latter. It is in this context that the Government launched the recovery plan "Having France of tomorrow". The help to building mayors was improved by a 50% bonus – bonus that you had removed three years earlier! Minister, Minister Delegate, do you think that the construction shock announced by Emmanuel Macron in 2017 will come to light before the end of the quinquennium? You mentioned partial unemployment, Mr Minister: it is indeed a major aid for employees, but it is often forgotten that it is also an aid for companies, because employees are the wealth of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u166	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u167	Let me first respond to your last comment. Partial activity is a major aid for employees, as it helps to maintain wages, purchasing power and employment, but, as I said a few minutes ago, it is also a major aid for businesses, as it helps to maintain skills. However, these are the wealth of companies and allow them to bounce back. On this point, we drew lessons from the 2009 crisis, as we applied a much higher partial activity compensation rate during this health crisis. Everyone remembers that Germany had made a more ambitious choice in this area than France after the 2009 crisis, benefiting from its rebound capacity and the revival of its economy. Now I'm going to the house. First of all, the recovery plan provides EUR 500 million to accompany the renovation of social housing. On the other hand, we have made the choice, for all housing units, to strongly accompany the thermal renovation by the extension of the MaPrimeRenov' system, whether it be the available funds or the number of beneficiaries. This is a great success, as evidenced by the faster than expected consumption of the appropriations allocated to it. Let us add, beyond the elements that you have recalled, that the recovery plan provides for assistance to the densifier mayors in order to support the construction and to better accompany the elected officials who make the choice to build without consuming available land and thus preserving the nature and environment around the buildings and the municipalities. This is precisely the philosophy of helping the densifier mayors. We are facing difficulties in the construction of new housing. As you have pointed out, they are linked to certain reorganisations, but also to the traditional electoral cycle, which, however, has been particularly long in recent months, which has delayed the start of construction. The minister responsible for housing, who recently met with the builders with Bruno Le Maire to discuss the price of raw materials and their supply, is attentive to the situation. Of course, the Government hopes that the construction objectives will be achieved and that the curve will be reversed. One particular feature of the recovery plan is that the Government has chosen to focus on the area of renovation as it contributes to improving living conditions, saving energy in the context of the energy transition and supporting the purchasing power of households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u168	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u169	In March 2020, our country faced an unprecedented health crisis, which forced public decision-makers to face a double challenge. On the one hand, it was necessary to avoid at all costs that the health situation would create a short-term economic disaster. In this respect, we can all agree that the public support of the State has been at the meeting and that it has provided essential protection for our businesses. On the other hand, we had to prepare for the future and seize the opportunity of the crisis to reinvent our model. That is the last aspect we are debating today. As you know, the Hauts-de-Frances have a strong industrial history. More than others, this territory has suffered the consequences of deindustrialisation. It was therefore essential to make it a priority territory for recovery. That is what we have done and we can congratulate ourselves on it. The recovery plan in the Hauts-de-France is very dynamic since already 130 projects are supported, which represent 750 million euros of industrial investment, financed to the tune of 126 million by the State. With Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Minister Delegate for Industry, as part of the Territories of Industry program, you have put in place engineering support that is sorely lacking in some communities in order to set up industrial projects and support them in their development. The mechanism is now being translated into concrete results. I am thinking of the Arc crystallary, in my constituency, in Bethune-Bruay, or in Amiens, in our colleague François Ruffin. The machinery launched by the Government was a real success. The state takes its full place in the economic dynamism of the territories and I hope that it will be quickly joined by the regions. The policy of industrial reconquest that we have undertaken must now be amplified in order to make France a great productive nation. Will these indispensable support for our territories be sustained? More broadly, can you assure us that the credits from the Industrial Territories program will be extended to accompany the rebound?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u170	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u171	We share your record, Mr. Potterie, and the pride of having accompanied the industry in the Hauts-de-France, as well as the economic rebound of this region. We plan several provisions to complement the current arrangement. These include participative loans to strengthen the equity, or quasi-equity, of companies, but also the anti-bankruptcy plan and the possibility of mobilising private funds with the "Relance" label, which now represents more than EUR 15 billion through the 170 mobilizable funds. We have accompanied communities and territories with the engineering necessary to implement the schemes during the recovery plan. We will ensure that these resources are available in a time-limited manner. Indeed, we have the will to support the economy without creating new structural public expenditure that would settle down over time. Finally, we want to bring to a successful conclusion the projects and applications for the industrial support schemes – Territories of Industry and Industry of the Future – provided for in the recovery plan. The measures related to the digitisation of the economy have been very successful and we took the decision a few weeks ago to replenish them for a total amount of just over EUR 1 billion as part of the first redeployments within the France Recovery Plan. This will enable us to support a greater number of projects and companies, as we have done, for the Territories of Industry, in relation to the regions, which are responsible for their share of the financing. Should all these engineering and industry support systems be sustained? I am tempted to answer you no for accounting reasons. We have always said that the contingency plan must be circumscribed in time. As for the need for new arrangements, if the need were to exist, in terms of investment support, the reflection work announced by the Minister for the Economy, Finance and Recovery a few moments ago will make it possible to judge this. We will be happy to involve parliamentarians in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u172	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u173	I want to go back to one of the flagship elements of the stimulus package, which is linked to the energy transition: MaPrimeRenov', which is almost a victim of its success because it is the subject of numerous demands. You are spending more than €1.5 billion on this, which is an important investment, as Minister Bruno Le Maire has just pointed out. But the beneficiaries who are trying to access the MaPrimeRenov' digital platform face real and growing difficulties. They go to France service houses – in Fougères, for example, it is in the sub-prefecture – they contact local energy renewal platforms, intercommunalities and parliamentary offices, but we can no longer meet the demand. There's a real blockage! Second, when users succeed in informing the fields on the digital platform software, they observe a marked disparity between the aid announced to them and the concrete grants they receive in euros. So, minister delegate, how would it be possible to simplify things, knowing that the funding and the arrangements are intertwined in a very complex way: I am thinking of the ANAH – National Habitat Agency – and the ADEME – Environmental Transition Agency – which both intervene, and of MaPrimeRenov' which coexists with the energy saving certificates? A territorial gateway should be created: local energy renewal platforms could play this role, including through the FACE network – Facilitating, accompanying and informing energy renewal. I have just spoken to the sub-prefect of the district of Fougères-Vitré at the beginning of the afternoon: we are faced with a congestion that prevents us from responding to the demands of the users, and there is an urgent need to resolve this blockage. After creating a hope, one ends up nourishing suspicion and mistrust.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u174	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u175	I share at least the beginning of your remarks: MaPrimeRénov' is an ambitious and working device; our goal, by devoting more than €2 billion to it from the recovery plan, in addition to the credits usually dedicated to the thermal renovation of housing, is to accompany the renovation of 3.8 million housing units considered energy passoires. As I pointed out to Mrs Pires Beaune, it is not only an act of energy and ecological transition but also a way of restoring purchasing power to many of our citizens and improving their living conditions. There are several interesting elements that can provide answers to your question. More than two thirds of the applications submitted are submitted by households considered to be modest or very modest, and the deflation of the eligibility criteria that we have established concerns only 5% of them. In addition, their volume is significant, which contributes to the revival of activity. In 2020, we registered 192000 applications; in the first six months of 2021, we have almost 330,000 applications. The increase in the number of files filed is therefore exponential, which can cause here or there – as you have noted – difficulties on the computer network and sometimes delays in the payment of aid to beneficiary households. In response, we have made a number of decisions, including strengthening the ANAH's capacity to investigate cases and release funds more quickly. We have also ensured that the means of the payment services agency are also strengthened, in order to speed up delays and to ensure that households – or businesses, when there is a delegation – are accompanied as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. I cannot comment on any malfunctioning of the network that you would have noticed, but I am confident that all of our teams, in Bercy – the ones we lead, Bruno Le Maire and I – will study them carefully, if you want to give us more precise information. For the rest, we are convinced of this: it is essential that the system be piloted at the national level. This is a measure of equality for the territories; wherever we have developed partnerships, we are implementing them, but we are trying to meet the demand mainly through an increase in the appropriations allocated to MaPrimeRenov' and the resources devoted to its training. I hope that this will solve the difficulties that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u176	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u177	It is a well-known adage in politics: the role of those who exercise it is no longer so much "know-how" as "to make known", at the risk of sometimes pouring into misleading communication. That's about what happened when you announced your recovery plan last September: 100 billion euros, that's a round and snoring figure, that could impress our fellow citizens! But almost 40% of this amount is actually attributable to the European Recovery Plan, 30% is not new expenditure and the various measures it covers all have different deadlines. A funny game of bonnet, therefore, that you decline into three parts: ecology, competitiveness and cohesion of the territories. These are nice and fashionable words, but note some originalities: in the ecology section, for example, 250 million euros are spent on road infrastructure. Funny ecological design! And if there are positive points such as the 4 billion spent on the renovation of public buildings, this remains insufficient – that's about what would have to be spent at least every year until 2040 for thermal colanders alone. As for the 30 billion dedicated to competitiveness, two thirds correspond to tax gifts to the most polluting companies and their multiplier effect is 0.3 compared to 0.8 for the rest of the measures, which is already not glorious. So, is this a recovery plan or a plan of complacency? In the light of these observations, I wonder what you hope to do again. "The French budget response is more like a safeguard plan than a recovery plan," even said Nicolas Goetzmann in an interview at Figaro. I will add: a plan to safeguard the profits of the crisis profiters. My question is: How do you think you will produce a lasting recovery as you cut the healthy branches to save the rotten fruit? Do you not think that this plan, which you call "relaunching", corresponds to investments that should have been made by the public authorities long before they were made necessary by the current context, to upgrade all infrastructure? It is normal for local and regional authorities to seize this budget: there was, and there will still be, so much to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u178	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u179	Member of Parliament, repeating lies will never be true. Since you are telling us that the 100 billion is recycling, I will go back to the content: 86 billion euros come from the state, of which 20 billion is spent on the reduction of production taxes, 64 billion new budgetary appropriations and 2 billion credits that are called valuations; 9 billion are supported by UNEDIC and finance the long-term partial activity, and a few credits are used to finance an additional investment plan under the Ségur agreements. Bpifrance brings 2.5 billion and the Bank of the Territories mobilises 3 billion. That's 100 billion. There is no recycling or lying, and no action has been taken in the recovery plan when it existed before. These are new measures, new actions for the benefit of the French and companies. You're asking us how we plan to succeed in a truly successful recovery plan. I'll tell you in one sentence: doing exactly the opposite of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u180	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u181	I would like to draw attention to companies in transition, those that are moving slowly but surely towards recovery. Indeed, if there is a recovery, it must be accompanied: we cannot abandon companies to their own fate and hope that they can, overnight, recover all the lost cash. They are often companies that have survived difficult: it is therefore vital not to suddenly withdraw all the aid provided to them, at the risk of causing a collapse of the most fragile. At the global level, the recovery is beginning at a good pace but we are far from the pre-covid pace announced. It is necessary to continue to maintain a medium-term line and to consolidate the balance sheet of the small enterprises that have remained in the course of the aid or carry-over measures. Public investment must continue, so that economic actors do not get the knife behind their throats and that private investment is also encouraged again. We therefore call for aid in all its forms not to be cut entirely but to be extended until the economic recovery is consolidated, even in a degressive form. We also ask to register them in time, to accompany indispensable mutations, for example in foundries – I am thinking of Dompierre-sur-Besbre, in my constituency of Allier. In general, the companies in question are real lungs for employment in the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u182	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u183	I fully agree with you. Indeed, we consider that the aid should not be cut abruptly: that is why, in the PLFR, which was submitted for your approval last week, we have planned a degressive exit from the solidarity fund by the end of August and a gradual increase in the remainder by companies in the case of partial activity. The National Assembly considered it appropriate to vote on a provision allowing the Government, if necessary, to extend the assistance arrangements by means of regulations. This will allow us to make a point at the end of August, as was said earlier, and to see whether or not aid should be maintained. We hope that the economic recovery will be strong enough not to do so, with the possible exception of specific sectors such as aeronautics. A second element of the response is the long-term partial activity. This scheme was validated by a majority agreement with the social partners several months ago, before the third wave of covid -19 which we have known: it is partly financed by the recovery plan and allows to accompany companies facing difficulties in time. Equity or quasi-equity financing is a third type of response. They can take the form of participative loans – I mentioned them –, a recourse to private financing by the labels "France Relaunch" or an anti-bankruptcy scheme, thanks to the renovation of the Fund for Economic and Social Development (FDES), which will now be called the Transition Fund; It has €3 billion to enable the State to provide long-term loans to companies that would face liquidity problems and to which the banking sector would not respond. Finally, certain corporate debts are accompanied, in particular social debts caused by the postponement of payment of social contributions. I announced a few weeks ago very long clearance plans for companies and for the self-employed – in their case, for example, since a social debt will be more than 1000 euros, the plan will not be shorter than 24 months, which will obviously make the discharge of such a debt sustainable. We will therefore work very gradually: many of your questions can find answers and solutions in our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u184	We have concluded the debate on recovery measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-16-O1308.u185	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion, at second reading, of the proposed law on various social justice measures; Discussion of the proposal for a law to ensure the revalorisation of the lowest agricultural pensions; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the establishment of technological risk prevention plans for installations permanently housing infrastructure structures for parking, loading or unloading of hazardous materials; Discussion of the proposal for a law to take over and repair the consequences of French nuclear tests; Discussion of the proposal for a law on emergency measures for intermittent employment; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the recognition of an "energy exception" within the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
