ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u1	The next item is the second reading of the proposal for a law to strengthen the right to abortion (No 3793, 3879).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u3	[[Applause on many benches]] We resume our discussions on the major issue of strengthening the right to abortion, which is one of the heights in the history of this House. At this moment, I have heard a thought full of admiration and gratitude for Simone Veil. Since October 2020, the date of the beginning of your work on the bill, the right to abortion has been constantly attacked around the world, questioned, restricted. I am thinking of the debates in the United States, of course, but also of some of the polemics that have arisen here in Europe. These recent examples remind us once again that the right to abortion is far from being acquired for all women: even though it was obtained in our country a little more than forty-five years ago, it must always be affirmed, protected, and strengthened. The health crisis that we are going through imposes on us a greater vigilance to ensure that sexual and reproductive rights are guaranteed and that the right to abortion is effective and inalienable. I come back to you and reaffirm my full commitment to tirelessly and vigorously defend women's right to abortion in safe conditions, with respect for their choice, informed by access to reliable and objective information, as close as possible to their place of life. It is my conviction as a citizen and as a man, and it is my commitment as Minister of Solidarity and Health; I am proud to be the head of a ministry that has been able to defend and advance this inalienable right for all women. I accept the requirement to continuously increase access to the voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) offer at any point in the territory so as not to leave any woman without the possibility of exercising her right. Also, I want to tell you where the commitments I made to you are. First, the time frame for a drug-related abortion in the city will be extended to seven weeks of pregnancy, and the journey can be made by teleconsultation based on women's choice and health status. I undertook to introduce into the common law these derogation measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency; That will be the case. The High Health Authority (HAS), which I had referred to in September 2020, updated its recommendations last April on the drug abortion route, confirming the extension of deadlines and the use of teleconsultation. The decree is ready and will be issued as soon as the Council of State has examined it. In addition, instrumental abortions can now be practised in health centres; the decree specifying the conditions was published last April. Since the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, the compulsory full-paying third party now benefits all women for the expenses covered by the compulsory health insurance, i.e. 100% of the costs associated with the abortion in the framework of care packages. To this paying third party is added the guarantee, for all women, of respect for the secrecy of the handling of these costs. [[Rires on several benches]] On your benches, many have also stressed the need to advance information, education for intimate and emotional life and, more generally, to promote sexual health more strongly. I fully share this objective, which I have made an important focus of my ministry's work. Also, in the context of the Social Security Financing Bill (PLFSS) for 2022, which I welcome this afternoon's final adoption, I have supported with you the extension of the long sexual health consultation to all young people up to the age of 25, so that sexual health and contraception are no longer considered as the case only of men... women. Lapsus! I also hoped that access to contraception would be facilitated for women up to and including 25 years of age, who have access to it free of charge, in order to take into account the economic and social vulnerabilities of young adults. I also want us to work more on men's contraception; Hence the lapsus. In addition, the National Sexual Health Strategy 2021-2024, the result of co-construction work with community partners, learned societies, health professionals and health agencies, provides for concrete actions to strengthen sexual health promotion, information and education. It also affirms the need for a clear, accessible and close-to-home sexual health care package. It includes an action dedicated to strengthening access to abortion because we must always strengthen the effective exercise of this right at every point in the territory. Finally, in our discussions at first reading, you addressed the essential role of the midwifery profession in our policies on prevention and women's health. In this regard, I would like to highlight the progress of the Rist law aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, which provides that midwives can now prescribe to their patients and their patients' partners the testing of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and their treatments. The consultations are almost complete and will determine the list of STIs that can be detected and the conditions for their treatment, thus strengthening the essential role of midwives in health promotion and prevention. As you know, last week we signed a memorandum of understanding with hospital unions on the upgrading of the midwifery profession. I repeat: I am very proud that their commitment, their status as a medical profession, their specific missions are recognized. This recognition, long awaited by the more than 20,000 professionals in the profession, is likely to strengthen as ever the attractiveness of the profession and the role of midwives in our public policies, particularly in the area of sexual and reproductive health. We are also working to recognise their rise in skills, by soon introducing a sixth year of initial training. In fact, last week, you debated this subject on the occasion of the examination of the bill presented by the Group of the European People's Party, which was reported by MEP Annie Chapelier, and I welcome the commitment on this issue, as well as the fine unanimity which concluded the examination of the text. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption in October 2020 at first reading by your Assembly of the bill on women's rights, their health, access to abortion and the role of professionals, the National Ethics Advisory Committee (NEAC), which I had wished to address on this issue – I had committed myself to it – has delivered its opinion. The CCNE's notice did not suggest a favourable opinion. When I received in my office a delegation from the members of the CCNE to carry out this mission, they told me that, when the CCNE had had to work on the issue of extending the time limit for the abortion, it had not issued a favourable opinion, considering that some issues did not fall within its competence when others, relating to ethics, had to be excavated. And when I received, from the President and the head of this mission, the opinion expressed on the extension of this deadline, they did not hide their satisfaction with the work done for several months. Their opinion was unanimously delivered less one vote – in this case, twenty-one votes in favour and one abstention. In its opinion, the CCNE recalls first of all "the importance of measures to protect women and prevent unwanted pregnancies", but also the need to strengthen "emotional education on sexual and reproductive health". In response to questions about safety conditions for women's health and professional practices, the CCNE states that while the implementation of GVIs "has risks that [...] increase with gestational age", they are nevertheless "weak" and "slightly differ between twelve and fourteen weeks of pregnancy". Finally, the NCCE, "focusing on the principles of autonomy, charity, equity and non-infancy towards women, [considered] that there was no ethical objection to extending the time limit for access to the IVG from [...] 12 to 14 weeks." However, in order to make concrete progress on women's right to dispose of their bodies, it is essential to continue to improve their career path by preventing some obstacles from further delaying access to abortion. It is therefore always necessary to increase access to reliable information, professionals and structures implementing GVIs, to improve territorial networking and to fluidize organizations, in particular so that the so-called late GVIs are better taken care of and without delay. It is a right of women; It is our duty and responsibility to all of us to allow everyone, according to their choice, their situation and their place of life, the full exercise of this right. The NCCE pointed out that this was one of the factors that led women, in fact, to go beyond the current legal term. However, some causes for exceeding the time limit are preventable. Every effort must therefore be made to strengthen the support of women. I myself interviewed many women's health professionals, including gynaecologists who practice GVI in health centres and facilities. A significant proportion of women who consult them for late abortions beyond 12 weeks, they have explained to me, are far removed from the systems of ordinary care, have no access to prevention and information, and sometimes find themselves in a precarious situation which increases their distress when they discover their pregnancy late during a consultation with their doctor. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thus our debate, which affects the exercise of a fundamental right, is essential; He therefore has a full place in Parliament. But we owe it to women, who never exercise this right lightly, to conduct our exchanges with respect, serenity and humility. You know my personal opinion, I gave it in September, and it is clear: I claim the right for women to be able to abort later in our country. France is in the European average; In five countries, three of which are border countries, women have the right to have an abortion beyond 12 weeks of pregnancy. Like many of you, I note that a number of women are forced to cross the border in order to go abroad for abortion under difficult conditions, especially since they are, in general, women who are far removed from the systems of common law care. So you know my personal position. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Government's role is also very clear: it is to give room for debate on your benches; In fact, to deliberate on such a matter falls entirely within the competence of national representation. As for the Government, it will defer to your decision, giving a wisdom opinion on all the articles of the bill. In the course of our discussions, I will have the opportunity to deliver a few opinions on this subject. The PLFSS for 2021 provided for testing the instrumental IVG practiced by midwives; Given the health crisis, it could not be launched. I say to you in white: if you decide to vote for its generalization, I will of course support you. As I told you, I am also in favour of extending the deadline for access to the IVG. Your text also addresses the essential issue of the conscience clause. Under the Code of Medical Ethics and the Public Health Code, a conscience clause is already applicable to all doctors for all medical acts, including abortions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u4	Yes! It's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u5	While the law introduced by Simone Veil introduced a conscience clause specific to the IVG, the general consciousness clause also applies to abortions, so doctors do not need to invoke the specific clause. Words make sense and, if I fully understand the idea of removing the specific awareness clause for abortion, I speak for doctors who are very committed to accompaniment for women who have abortions, including late. According to them, it is better for a woman to be cared for by doctors engaged in this process and able to receive them in good conditions, rather than to force the door of doctors who will not necessarily receive them in the best conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This is an eminently complex, ethical debate, and my words suggest where my natural inclination is. Nevertheless, I repeat, the Government, which wishes to allow the discussion to take place in a calm and committed manner, will issue a wisdom opinion on the whole bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u6	Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u7	It is an honour to once again defend before you, as rapporteur, women's access to voluntary termination of pregnancy. Abortion is not an exception, a mistake of course or a failure; It's a solution for all women who want to end a pregnancy. Since 1974, in this Chamber, where Simone Veil's words still resonate, our predecessors have advanced this right and, in so doing, have allowed our society to go beyond the pre-1975 era. Yet far away, that it seems close, this time! A few weeks ago, a woman died in Poland because a hospital refused to practice the abortion she was asking for. Do not reduce the guard on the effectiveness of the fundamental right of abortion: this is the subject of this bill, which I have been defending for more than a year. Initially structured around two articles, this text was considerably enriched at first reading, thanks to a trans-party mobilization, which I would like once again to welcome. It contains seven substantive articles and measures that, in addition to being concrete, allow for a marked change in attitudes. [[Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] Article 1 aims to extend the statutory time limit for abortion from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. If you have repeatedly heard my arguments in his favour, the National Ethics Advisory Committee, seized on this subject by the Government at the first reading, delivered its opinion in December 2020: "There is little, if any, difference in risk for women who have abortions between 12 and 14 weeks of pregnancy. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u8	And between fourteen and sixteen weeks?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u9	It would therefore be more than incomprehensible to perpetuate an unjust and unequal situation. Every year at least 3,000 women are forced to go abroad to abort, but other situations are totally invisible. How many women do they have to continue an unwanted pregnancy? How many of them resort to clandestine abortion, at the risk of their own lives? We cannot accept these situations. In France, in 2021, a woman must be able to have an abortion if she wishes. Article 1a, on the other hand, aims to extend the scope of competences of midwives to the practice of abortion by instrumental means, thereby strengthening the territorial network of professionals authorized to practise abortion. This will be a major step forward for women who wish to abort, as well as a real recognition of the investment and skills of midwives, who are in a full medical profession. There is also a need for mentalities to evolve and for abortion to be stopped as a separate medical act. Let us stop infantilizing and stigmatizing women who resort to abortion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u10	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u11	...which is the case of one in three women in her life. There are three steps in this direction. First of all, Article 1 removes the two-day period of reflection to confirm a request for abortion, which is currently imposed on women who carry out a prior psychosocial consultation. Let women who wish to use an IVG control their reflection time! Secondly, Article 2 removes the specific awareness clause of the IVG, while retaining two essential points: the inclusion in the law of the right of health professionals to refuse to practice IVG and the obligation to reorient the women concerned. Why this new device? On the one hand, the specific clause, resulting from a forty-five-year-old political balance, no longer has any reason to be in 2021. On the other hand, it is redundant with the clause of general consciousness and contributes to perpetuating a backward vision of the abortion. By denying the abortion its status as a carer for women, it contributes to making it a medical act only tolerated and not a right in its own right. For all these reasons, we propose to change the law, without however changing the current practice of health professionals: those who do not wish to have abortions will of course have no obligation to do so, because the possibility of refusal will remain clearly enshrined in the law. Finally, article 2 clarifies the obligation of health professionals to issue an emergency contraceptive. In the aftermath of an unprecedented health crisis, Simone de Beauvoir's words should be seen as a warning: "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights. These rights are never acquired. You'll have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life. » [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM Group as well as on the benches of the SOC, GDR and FI groups and among non-attached Members]] It is with this in mind that I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt my bill, as I call on the Government to support it unambiguously. However, I have heard the Government's wise position, which leaves the doubt as to its willingness to improve the right to abortion: how do you interpret this opinion, Mr.Minister, you who were defending, a short time ago, the extension of time limits? In addition, you are a member of a government that has made equality between women and men the main cause of its quinquennium. As you know, we need your full support for the shuttle to continue for final adoption before the end of the legislature. I therefore call for your responsibility and that of the entire Government, of which I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u12	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u13	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u14	What a legislative adventure that of this bill! More than a year ago, on 8 October 2020, our Assembly adopted, at first reading, this text aimed at strengthening the right to abortion, on the initiative of our colleague Albane Gaillot on the day reserved for the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group. Rejected by the Senate in January 2021, this bill was then placed, as early as February last, at second reading, on the agenda of the reserved day of the Socialist and related group. Unfortunately, after its adoption in committee, we were forced to remove it from the agenda of the sitting, which was prevented by a rain of unconstructive amendments from a few right-wing Members. Unlike the Government, the parliamentarians we are unfortunately have no weapon other than their patience in the face of obstruction, so we had no choice but to give up. I will not dwell on this political practice, although it is regrettable that it can block the work of minority groups. New twist: the text has been put back on our agenda at the request of the majority group. So we're going back to where we stopped in February. In this respect, I thank our colleagues in the La République on the move, who have decided to continue the legislative path of this text, and in particular their president, Christophe Castaner. The same bill on the agenda by three different parliamentary groups, by the opposition and then by the majority: it is an honour for the Assembly to be able to overcome its partisan divisions in the defence of women's rights, and it is an honour for me to be again co-rapporteur of the text. On the subject of IVG, trans-passionate work is not new; This is even the rule in the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to him and to his president Marie-Claire Rixain. It was in this trans-party framework that we published an information report on access to abortion in our country: I was the co-rapporteur with Cécile Muschotti, whose unwavering commitment to the effectiveness of the right to abortion. On the occasion of this long-term work, we found that, more than 45 years after obtaining the right to abortion, the record of access to this right is alarming: health professionals, doctors, midwives, social workers, associations, family planning, all mention several difficulties in the path of access to abortion. [[Mr Nicolas Meizonnet protested]] The pitfalls are many: difficulty in accessing clear and accurate information, in finding out who to contact, in identifying a professional who is willing to practice IVG, in finding appointments quickly, in order to be taken care of within the given time frame. Inequalities are added: from one region to another, the provision of care is mixed and the time taken to take care of it can vary from simple to quadruple. Rural areas, in particular, are seeing a reduction in the number of orthogen services, with the gradual closure of small maternity hospitals. These difficulties affect even more directly the most vulnerable women, those who do not have a means of locomotion, those who cannot be absent from their work, those who cannot arrange for the care of their children to go to compulsory consultations. How can such an application, with varying geometry, of an absolutely fundamental right be tolerated? In our report, Cécile Muschotti and I recommended several developments to strengthen the effectiveness of this right: the extension of the time limit for recourse to the abortion, the abolition of the specific awareness clause, the extension of the competence of midwives to the practice of an abortion by instrumental means, the establishment of a directory of professionals practising abortion, a review of the application of the legislation on the offence of obstruction or the improvement of the information of women on their right to choose the method of abortion. I am therefore pleased to see all of these recommendations incorporated into this bill. The health crisis will at least have proved that, if necessary, if there is genuine political will, the system can be reformed. The generalization of teleconsultation and the extension of the time frame for the use of IVG drugs in cities from five to seven weeks of pregnancy have demonstrated the need and shared desire to strengthen the effectiveness of the right to IVG. The Government has demonstrated political will by taking these measures during confinement. Today we expect the same from you, Minister, we look forward to your full support for this proposal for a fundamental law, to which the National Assembly is largely in favour. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group and among non-attached Members. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel and Annie Chapelier also applaud]] I am optimistic about the passage of this text, but also cautious about the near term of the legislature and the need for a review by the Senate as soon as possible. Access to GVI, a right acquired by women forty-five years ago, must no longer be of variable geometry. It must finally be made effective: we owe it to all women. You said you were in favour of this text, minister: why did you express a wisdom opinion? We're counting on you and your voluntarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u15	I have received from Mr. Joachim Son-Forget, a non-registered Member of Parliament, a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u16	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u17	On this motion, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u18	There are certain bills – the so-called societal texts – on which everyone considers a legitimate opinion. Why? Because an intuition is born in everyone, coming from his experience of life, from a worried questioning about his origins and his future. I will make two preliminary remarks, as a precaution, on how to listen to my remarks. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [["Oh! » on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] First of all, I could speak in the place of women, without ever being able to feel what a woman, having experienced a voluntary, partially voluntary or coerced abortion, through medication or obstetrics, may have felt in her flesh, in her being, for several months, indelibly. I could argue that half of this embryo comes from me, so I also have my say – even if it can't be even, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u19	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u20	However, out of honesty, I will not. I could also argue with my personal experience: I would then give you my opinion only in the light of my experience, my relationship to fatherhood or my religious convictions. Yet, out of honesty, I will not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u21	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u22	Too kind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u23	The Republic is secular!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u24	The parliamentary debate too often remains attached to notions that too often echo our personal stories, our beliefs or the field of emotion, such as the famous concepts of "parental project" or "sociological deconstruction of biological reality". In 2001, the deadline was extended from 10 to 12 weeks. The reason given was that between 3000 and 5000 women could not resort to abortion within the time limits. Twenty years later, you make the same observation, the order of magnitude being similar even though the context is not. The majority thus proposes, in the parliamentary agenda, the return of the bill to extend the period of voluntary termination of pregnancy from 12 to 14 weeks. I doubt that an extension of the deadline will eliminate the suffering of the women concerned in the face of a difficult and very rarely taken decision: this will probably not prevent the handful of those who travel abroad later from continuing to do so. It is 230,000 abortions that take place every year in France. Of the 750,000 annual pregnancies, one in three is voluntarily discontinued. According to your report, ladies and gentlemen, between 3000 and 5000 women would exceed the legal deadline and would be forced to abort abroad. But according to the delegation for women's rights and the CCNE, it is rather between 1500 and 2000 women, an estimate much lower than your figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u25	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u26	However, there are two very concrete points which deserve to be addressed and which lead me to propose this motion of rejection. My first point is that of the doctor: the passage from the embryonic stage to the foetal stage, beyond any symbol – for the embryo already has tangible signs of its nature as a little man in the process, because of its global form – is anything but annoyance. Every week is not worth the development: organogenesis accelerates and the withdrawal of the foetus becomes a potentially threatening issue for the health of the future mother, to the point that the National Council of the Order of Physicians pronounces itself against such prolongation. Obstetricians, in contact with women, are already alerting us to obstetrical consequences. We know that, in fact, tolerance is already the rule for unwanted late pregnancies, in difficult contexts where, I am well aware, the days pass too quickly to keep up with the twelve weeks. GVI performed within these new time frames, especially at home, in the event of drug interruption, increase the complications of uterine and haemorrhagic injury. Late aspirations – or curing – expose to the risk of retention and infection: many practitioners are likely to have reservations – legitimate or not, sometimes moral – to carry out these gestures. The second part of my speech is distancing itself from the medical field: it is philosophical and relates to eugenics. This term, coined at the end of the 19th century by Galton – Darwin's cousin – and whose etymology means "getting well", refers to the idea, defended at the time by the same Galton, that certain individuals should be able to reproduce and others not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u27	That's not true! What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u28	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and GDR groups]] It was therefore an artificial human selection. Eugenic laws were then applied in different countries, leading to the sterilization of persons with disabilities and mental illness. In 1941 Aldous Huxley's brother, Julian, a biologist who became UNESCO's first Director General, declared that "eugenics will inevitably become an integral part of the religion of the future."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u29	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u30	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Today, pre-implantation diagnosis (IPD) avoids the selection of certain pathological genotypes. Such a chronological juxtaposition, albeit a little hasty, does not have the virtue to decree what is good or evil; It serves only to recall historical and contemporary facts. In concrete terms, this Act will, without invasive gestures, make it even easier to know the sex of the unborn child. The lengthening of the deadline leads us to an approach which I will describe as "sex-selective"; Indeed, at fourteen weeks, future parents know the sex of the unborn child, much more than at the time of the first ultrasound, theoretically possible from the eleventh week. Voting in favour of this bill can therefore potentially be tantamount to sowing the seeds of gender discrimination, not of a technological nature but which would be within the reach of all. I come to my conclusion. The moment of pregnancy here is the moment at which the transition between embryo and foetus takes place. This is the moment when the unborn child is brought up to the level of man's perception, on the macroscopic scale: individuality and otherness are unmasked. Our mirror neurons recognize a human form, up to its limits, while the fingerprints themselves are precise at this exact time of development – fingerprints that we can hardly recognize to the naked eye, but which still allow us to identify a single individuality, even by using rough technical means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u31	Give us Twitter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u32	But today, such a limit could be breached. To give you my personal opinion, I accept the Veil law as it stands, like many of you: careful compromise, it has proven its validity by saving women while preventing excesses in the use of abortion. In the absolute, at what stage do we put the acceptable limit to the interruption of a human life in the process of becoming? Here, there is talk of the foetus or embryo, but for others, the limit may well be anterior; Some places it, for example, when the gametes meet. Why not? It could even be set, philosophically, at the level of the very intention to make a child. Other questions arise. Is the psychological distress of a future mother as valid as physical distress? Does it justify a therapeutic interruption of pregnancy or not? If the unborn child is not one, why, therefore, treat him as such in utero, when medicine requires it – and although the mother is always preferred in these situations? If an unborn child benefits from the immunity of his mother for a particular pathology – such questions have been raised recently – does this mean that he already exists as a person in his own right, even though he would remain invisible to us with the naked eye and be deprived of a civil state?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u33	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u34	Finally, let me take a little more time. Finally, what disturbs some of us in this extension of the legal abortion deadline is the fact that it makes it even easier to stop making children. As we can see, Western societies are all moving towards a form of "eusociality", to take the term of sociobiologist Edward O. Wilson. We could talk about it for long minutes; I therefore refer you to his works. But this social model – this social hypothesis – that characterizes insect societies probably promotes humanity's ability to survive, despite its overpopulation on earth. However, it involves regulation probably at work, of which we are not even aware. Humanity is scared during massive pandemics; It reproduces less in a country as it Westernizes, develops. These are open questions and possible answers. My gaze on this issue is not a judgment on sociological behaviour: it is an anthropological look that tries to understand why, in the world, we are trying to reduce and control births. Escape from the fatality of our animal nature and control it, is that the subject we deal with? Or are men and women not aware of this? Is the subject deeper than that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u35	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u36	My ethic is intended to be bioconservative, in the service of the good of humanity in the future. It does not deny the specificity of the woman, the weight and the responsibility that her nature gives her ontologically. On the contrary, she assumes it in full light.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u37	Are you joining Zemmour?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u38	I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have the opportunity to debate and in particular – I ask you – that you temper your ambition, undoubtedly motivated by medical reasons linked to the reality of the field – I see it – but which, in order to avoid considerable bioethics already existing elsewhere, whether it be sex-related selection or abortion at any stage of pregnancy, could have been formulated differently, in particular with regard to the time allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u39	A motion of rejection in advance prevents the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u40	Medically, extending the legal deadline to thirteen weeks, i.e. three months of pregnancy, could be an intelligent response; This would make it possible to move away from the course of the fifteen weeks and thus to be more realistic as to what is actually happening on the ground, by allowing surgical treatment by aspiration – or curing – as soon as possible, between the patient's decision and the actual medical act, even in the case of a late awareness. I submit this option to your consideration. Such technical questions, coupled with the real, need to be discussed, but the philosophical questions I mentioned earlier must be discussed as well. The necessary debate has not taken place within society; It is a serious rhetorical error that jeopardizes future discussions, based on a medical lie, saying that nothing happens between twelve and fourteen weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group as well as among non-attached Members. – Hues on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, LT, FI and GDR groups. – MM. Guillaume Chiche and Matthieu Orphelin also hate the speaker]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the various philosophical and medical arguments that I have just invoked, I request the withdrawal of this text; That is why I have tabled this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u41	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u42	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u43	[[Mr Joachim Son-Forget returns to the Chamber]] I would have liked to reply to Mr Joachim Son-Forget, but I think he left the Chamber soon after his motion was defended; So he deprives us of the chance to argue with him. I find this a pity, but he is free to do so. In the same way that he deprives us of the opportunity to debate with him, he would like to deprive you of the opportunity to debate democratically a subject that is dear to you and dear to the heart of a large number of French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u44	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u45	There's the MP coming back. Mr. Son-Forget, I was complaining about your absence! I will not be very long because I have already said a lot of things during the presentation of the text. I just want to add that the person in charge of ethics, honourable Member, is not you or me; In the strictest sense, the guardians of our country's temple of ethics could be considered to be members of the National Ethics Advisory Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u46	They change their minds all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u47	[[Laughs and applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] What they describe in their minutes and reports does not correspond to what you say in your speech. I will therefore be able to rely more on Professor Delfraissy's team and all the scientists who have worked on these issues for months than on the ten minutes you have been able to pass through the perch to express ideas some of which are probably true and some which are probably excessive – but even less than you could have feared. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] In short, on the motion of rejection, the Government will not issue a wisdom opinion, because on such a matter, we must commit ourselves: the opinion is unfavourable. Members must be able to debate in good conditions, in complete serenity and by weighing each of the words and expressions used by each other, because we are very much observed. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Again, the subject, eminently ethical, touches the heart of a large number of French. I see this – and you have seen it in your speech, Mr.Member: every year thousands of women are trapped in a time frame that is too short, in France, compared to what is possible abroad, and these women are not among those who are waiting for the last moment, after having allowed the French legal date to pass, to go to Spain and abort; Rather, they are people who are far from conventional care facilities, who sometimes find out about their pregnancy late, for example in the case of denials of pregnancy. I believe that France can take pride in being soon able to welcome these women, who make the difficult choice to abort late, in good health conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u48	Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u49	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mr Joachim Son-Forget protested]] Mr. Son-Forget, I'll wait for you to listen. We have not been on the ground, you say, and we have not listened to what has come up from it; It is to confront the work that has been done by parliamentarians, in particular those who make up the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women, in particular Cécile Muschotti, present here, or Marie-Noëlle Battistel; That is to deny all the meetings we have made on the ground, again this morning when we went to an IVG center. These meetings helped to build a proposal that comes from the field and health professionals, those who accompany women. You're telling us it's just theory, but no! That's the reality! These are real problems! Every year, thousands of women go abroad to abort!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u50	It's not just that in your text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u51	[[New applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM, Dem, GDR and FI groups as well as among non-attached MPs]] And these women are experiencing real social inequality. So today, as the Group of the European People's Party has done by putting this text on the agenda of our House, I propose that you discuss it. I think that this is the best solution to move forward on these matters that are dear to you and that are also dear to us, to all of us, by calmly, calmly and humbly. We need to take a step forward: we are legislators and not doctors. I therefore appeal to our collective responsibility to defend an essential subject, the right of women to dispose of their bodies without being subject to the opinion of doctors. That's what's important! I therefore propose that we continue the debate, as proposed by the Group of the European People's Party on the move by continuing the shuttle. I now give the floor to the other groups; Of course, the opinion is completely unfavorable on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u52	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u53	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u54	The right to abortion, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental right that has revolutionized but also protected the lives of many women since its introduction in 1975. Intensifications and improvements to this liberating law have been regularly proposed; and it is on an equally regular basis that pastist and conservative rejection motions have been tabled, in an attempt to delay the adoption of the proposed advances. The struggle of the socialists has always been confused with feminism. We decided to support this bill by including it in our niche, first in the Senate and then in the National Assembly on February 18. Unfortunately, as was pointed out earlier, because of the obstruction of some Members, we were not able to discuss the text in open session. The only solution for us is to debate it; It will then be necessary for the La République group in motion in the Senate – the Rally of Democrats, Progressives and Independents – to take it back in its niche of January 12, 2022, before it returns to the National Assembly again. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and in some of the non-attached Members]] The ball is therefore in our side, that of the progressives: we will support the text and, through it, all the women it concerns, calling on the Government to do everything possible to ensure that it is promulgated during this legislature. The Socialist and related group will not, of course, vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u55	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u56	[[Michèle Peyron applauds]] "How, then, have things changed, which requires intervention" at the legislative level? "Why not maintain the principle and continue to apply it only on an exceptional basis" when the threshold is exceeded? "Why legislate and thus cover the laxism of our society, foster individual selfishness instead of reviving a moral of civics and rigour? Because everything shows us that the question does not arise in these terms. » [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and among the non-attached MPs]] Perhaps you have recognized these words: these are those of Simone Veil, given in his speech of November 26, 1974. They always seem as appropriate to me. Because the world has changed, because times have changed since 1974 and because the current situation is far from perfect; Because we all know that Ms.Veil had to make a lot of compromises in order to have her bill reviewed and voted on, we have to seize the opportunity to move forward to address the plight of thousands of women – we don't know exactly how many of them are, but it is estimated that eight women a day are forced to go abroad to abort. For these eight women a day, the Action Together group will support this bill throughout the debate; Of course, we will oppose the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u57	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u58	On such a subject – a bill in favour of extending the time limit for the abortion – each vote is personal. Nevertheless, and like the position expressed at first reading by the IDU Group and independents, we will speak mainly against this text. This opposition, whose reasons I will develop later, cannot exempt us from a debate on the subject: these women, whose distress can only hit us, expect us to find solutions and answers, and none of them must go abroad to abort. We need hope and, on a subject that touches everyone's intimacy, we need to be able to listen to each other and confront our opinions with respect, argument against argument. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur, also applauds]] Our group has traditionally opposed motions for rejection, because we were elected first and foremost to debate, and there is no justification for avoiding this debate. As a result, the independent IDU group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u59	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u60	The Freedom and Territory Group will also oppose the motion to reject it beforehand. It is important that this debate be postponed too long because of the obstruction of some – several of you have pointed out – to take place. While such a subject requires that each respect the position of the other, it is difficult to hear certain words when they are excessive. On ethical issues, the opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee is eloquent. I invite those who would not have done so to consult him. To reject the adoption of the bill is to deny the combatant's path faced by women in order to enjoy a right they acquired forty-five years ago; that is to deny their difficulties of access to a doctor or midwife in our territory; It is to deny the material and psychological obstacles that hinder their access to the right to abortion; Finally, it is a denial that too many of them go to neighbouring countries to exercise this right. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] Colleagues, it's time to move on! Let's reject the motion for rejection and pass the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u61	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u62	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] Consideration of some texts is difficult in the National Assembly. On bioethics issues, which involve personal and intimate choices, we are invited to respect each other's positions and not to judge. A few days after the International Day to Combat Violence against Women, on 25 November, which was the subject of several questions to the Government, and on the eve of Josephine Baker's entry into the Pantheon, of which France can be proud, it is particularly regrettable that a man, who is at the same time a knowing one – Joachim Son-Forget reminded us that he was a doctor – calls, in the gallery, for the rejection of a text on the freedom of women to dispose of their bodies. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and LT groups and among non-attached MPs]] For this reason, and only for this one – we make no judgment on the positions that are expressed about the bill, which calls for intimate convictions – the group La France insoumise will oppose the motion to reject beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u63	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u64	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will obviously vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We would like to discuss the bill once again, as we would like it to be adopted and enacted quickly. [[Mr Joachim Son-Forget protested]] However, I would like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, of the danger posed by Mr Son-Forget's remarks. We could be tempted, by hearing them, not to stop at such lunar arguments and go directly to the debate on the text – have you been, ladies and gentlemen? –, but the terms and names he used in his speech refer to well-known currents of thought, which have caused women's rights to decline or, at least, have opposed them. These currents, still influential, try by every means to block every new feminist revolution. [[Applause on several benches of the FI and SOC groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] This upsets you, Mr. Son-Forget, that feminist revolutions are gaining momentum and creating new rights for women!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u65	You don't have a monopoly on women!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u66	Your actions and your daily speech show this! That is what I wanted to warn you about, ladies and gentlemen: this current of thought seeks to block and reverse feminist revolutions. I therefore call on the Government to oppose it with the utmost firmness. A wise opinion on the bill will not be able to combat it. We need a firm commitment, which you unfortunately refuse to accept, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and among the non-attached MPs. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] If he convinced you of the need for this determined fight, then Mr. Son-Forget's speech will have been a little useful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u67	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u68	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Allow a man, Mrs Faucillon, to firmly reject this motion of rejection. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us remember that forty-seven years ago and a few days ago – several of you recalled – Simone Veil went up to this rostrum to defend the right to abortion. No one here can pretend to be Simone Veil, but you demonstrated, Mr. Son-Forget, that you were representative of the men who were then members of the National Assembly and who slandered the minister, she and all the women they defended in her fight. With your vilenies, you have lowered the level of our debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u69	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u70	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] I fully respect the differing views expressed on the right to abortion, but I do not support amalgam. Suffer, gentlemen, that I may speak without being interrupted! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge also applauds]] Today, we must take a new step to ensure that women move from a formal right to a real right. There are deep inequalities and social injustices in our territory, against which the bill will enable us to fight. Our fight does not target people in particular, it is philosophical and it tends to guarantee real rights. Let us never satisfy ourselves with the formal rights in this House! Real rights are precisely the rights that the majority has won throughout the quinquennium alongside the Government, in accordance with the contract of progress that guided our action and led to the medically assisted reproduction (PMA) for all women, the extension of paternity and childcare leave to 28 days, the drafting of a law on real economic and professional equality, the creation of a powerful agency for the recovery of unpaid maintenance payments and a basket of 100% effective health care for all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u71	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u72	The subject is the woman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our action has made it possible for free contraception, defended by the Minister, to benefit all young women between the ages of 18 and 25, and for family leave to be a measure of real equality. Our action is progressive and is in keeping with the respect of individuals. Let us hope that our debate this evening and the coming days will be worthy of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u74	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u75	While this bill may lead to support or rejection, it requires a calmed debate and not caricatural comments such as those just made by the author of the motion for prior rejection. By definition, a Member of Parliament who tables a motion of rejection in advance refuses to debate the text on which this motion relates. How can we explain, therefore, that Mr Son-Forget has repeatedly called for debate? Why then did you put forward a motion to reject it beforehand? This simple inconsistency will lead the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats to vote against the previous rejection motion. On the substance, why does the House have to debate the bill? Because, in our country today, women find it difficult to use an abortion. There are many reasons for this – lack of information, insufficient numbers of doctors, difficult access to structures – and we will discuss it. In any case, we have a duty to respond to the call of women, who have the right to decide whether they want to give life or not. A child is a long-term commitment. We don't have to become a mother because we didn't have access to abortion. We will honour ourselves this evening to open the debate in the Chamber and to exchange calmly between us. Our country is waiting for this discussion to take place. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will vote freely on the bill, but they will reject the motion to reject it beforehand, which is not one and which simply served as a forum for its author.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u76	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u77	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 93 Number of votes cast 92 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 10 Against 82
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u78	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u79	Forty-six years after the adoption of the Act on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, the Veil Act and the IVG remain a fundamental right, which is still not effective in any part of the territory. Every year, 3000 to 5000 French women are forced to travel abroad to practice a voluntary termination of pregnancy. They are obliged to do so because of the insufficient number of health professionals or adapted services in many territories. They go abroad because the legal deadline for recourse to abortion in our neighbours is longer than in France. Difficulties in accessing abortion mainly affect the most vulnerable: under-age girls, isolated women in rural areas, women who are pregnant as a result of rape or have limited resources. Admittedly, improving access to GVI is not limited to the measures contained in the bill, but also requires structural responses, whether it is the steering and organization of our orthogenic offer or the improvement of the smoothness of the GVI route. However, the proposed law raises three major issues: the two-week extension of the statutory deadline for access to the abortion, the deletion of the specific awareness clause and the extension of midwives' competence. First, Article 1 extends the statutory time limit for abortion by two weeks and extends it to fourteen weeks of pregnancy. It will apply to situations that are limited in number, but to which our system of care does not provide a satisfactory response. Some will argue that only 5% of GVIs are performed between week 10 and week 12. Well, that's good! It is gratifying that this proportion remains limited: it is our common wish that the care of abortions should be as early as possible. These are often women who have only discovered their pregnancy late, due to irregular menstrual cycles, lack of clinical signs of pregnancy or the use of contraception. In addition to these situations, there may be changes in the material, social and emotional situation of a woman, which may legitimately lead her not to wish to continue her pregnancy. If a woman applies for an abortion just before the twelfth week, she may be offered an appointment too late to meet the legal deadline. Once the twelve-week period has passed, what solutions do they present themselves to her? Actually, none in France. She will have to go abroad, take care of all the expenses or will be forced to continue a pregnancy she did not want. I will conclude with the findings of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, after noting that there is little, if any, difference between twelve and fourteen weeks of pregnancy from the point of view of complications. The NCCE considered that there was no ethical objection to extending the time limit for access to the GVI by two weeks. The other key issue addressed by the bill is the deletion of the specific awareness clause, which is also referred to as the double awareness clause. This was one of the elements of compromise that allowed the adoption of the Veil Act in 1975 in the face of a majority hostile to the decriminalisation of the IVG. At a time when we must work to improve the level of abortion activity, this double conscience clause keeps the abortion in a medical setting separate from all other acts related to women's reproductive health and does not, in reality, provide any additional protection to health professionals in relation to their general consciousness clause, which, enshrined in the code of ethics, allows every caregiver to refuse to perform any act that he considers to be contrary to his ethics, morals or a medical choice that is not his own – which is happy. Therefore, maintaining the double conscience clause serves only to stigmatize the abortion. We also note the other advances in the text: the competence of midwives in IVG, the removal of the two-day reflection period, the extension of the IVG drug in the city from five to seven weeks and the obligation of the paying third party. For all the women I have mentioned, a hope was born a year ago, on 8 October 2020, when the bill defended by our colleague Albane Gaillot was adopted, which took up the information report on access to the IVG which I drafted with Cécile Muschotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u80	Because the struggle of the socialists has always melted with feminism, we decided to move this bill forward by placing it on the agenda of our niche in the Senate and then in the National Assembly on February 18. Unfortunately, because of the obstruction of some Members of the LR Group, we have not been able to discuss this text in open session. We then declared that we would be in solidarity with all those who would take the next steps in order to guarantee as quickly as possible the effectiveness of the right to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC, FI, GDR and LT groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, it would have taken ten months for this bill to finally continue, at the initiative of the majority group. We've wasted time, but the end is imminent. The coming end of the legislature also reduces the chances of this law being enacted before that term. Minister, this text must be examined in the Senate before returning to the National Assembly. The ball is therefore in your side, we call on you to support this text and to do everything possible to ensure that it is promulgated under this legislature. We're counting on your voluntarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u82	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u83	Poorly dosed pill, rape, irregular menstruation, false infertility diagnosis, false belief that the first report is safe or that in the absence of a return from diaper one cannot get pregnant and sometimes even lack of explanation, all the precautions having been taken: all the testimonies overlap, no woman willing to abort has waited for the twelfth week of her pregnancy of cheerfulness of heart. These women have each seen it late, too late, or have been paralyzed by the fear of talking about it before finding an ear to confide in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u84	"The typical disaster scenario: to present itself ric-rac before the deadline, in summer. Just as a maximum of doctors are on leave, in one of these hospitals which, for lack of staff, refuse to practice abortion beyond nine weeks of pregnancy," says journalist Corine Goldberger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u85	These situations, thousands of French women live in them every year; 3000 to 5000 of them, according to estimates, then leave abroad to obtain the right to abort. It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u86	The cost in foreign clinics can easily reach 1000 euros, not refunded of course. This is an additional burden for women, who often have to bear the consequences of having sex alone, sometimes without their consent; a further burden for those living in the most complex, violent or precarious situations, the youngest and the most isolated, the first to be affected by the difficulties of access to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u87	Before we begin the examination of the articles, I would like to make a warning to some of my colleagues. Abortion women don't need commisation. They may need listening or accompaniment but do not need to be blamed or be subjected to any psychological pressure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u88	As we look at this bill, which I have co-signed, I would like to sincerely thank Albane Gaillot for his tireless struggle on this subject, as well as all the Members of this House who have worked on it, in particular Mrs Battistel and Mrs Muschotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u89	I would also like to stress that the consultations have taken place largely since the beginning of this Parliament with all the actors involved in this proposal. The NCCE considers that there is no obstacle to extending the legal time limit for access to the IVG. Let us therefore discuss the substance. For our part, we will vote for the extension of the period from 12 weeks to 14 weeks of pregnancy. This extension seems to be consistent since, up to fourteen weeks, it is still possible to make an abortion by aspiration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u90	We will vote for the end of the double conscience clause, which no longer has any reason to be. At the time when Simone Veil had defended her, it was to grant the opponents of her law a small victory and thus allow legalization. The House was then filled with men, many of whom were hostile to its ideas. We're not there anymore. This double conscience clause, now anachronistic, is terribly stigmatizing and guilty for women, in addition to creating a breach of equality in access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u91	We will also vote for the text to allow midwives to perform surgical IVGs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u92	Many times over the course of our history, society has tried to relegate women to the status of procreators, as we heard a few minutes ago, their achievement being deemed to go through motherhood which "flavors our good conscience and collective narcissism" to the words of journalist Mona Chollet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u93	But women have also long used contraception and abortion as a means of protest, with more or less dark periods for those who practiced it. Thus the Middle Ages – a distant period, but sometimes very close – saw the appearance of those who were called witches because they were able to control the birth. Time has passed: abortion legislation has been moving forward for 45 years. Thank you for leaving the witches out of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC and LT groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] No, abortion is not counter-nature. It is the way for the woman to keep taken on her own body. Yes, a woman can be realized without having a child, just as she can be realized in maternity. Each should be given the opportunity to make the most appropriate choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u95	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u96	This month's Causette magazine has given, in connection with family planning, the floor to thirteen personalities to break the taboo that continues to surround abortion. There is something crazy about the fact that these statements are still necessary today. This taboo must stop, we must fight it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u97	The editor-in-chief of the magazine questions us in these words: "You who have practiced an IVG, have you ever spoken freely about it with your friends? With your partner? Your family? Probably not. She goes on to say: "This is a mistake on our part. Because there is no shame in abortion. There's no reason to keep this information secret. We are not at fault when we have to resort to it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u98	While these women first express themselves in support of other women, these few words are, of course, also addressed to censors of all kinds, to tartuffs, to ultra-conservatives, but also to all those who forget how time of crisis is conducive to regressions for women's rights. So it's a necessary alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u99	The health situation has severely affected access to abortion for all women. But the covid already has a very broad back: let us also look at the work of dismantling the public services of care and prevention throughout our territory, as that of structures emanating from feminist militant movements. This contributes to restricting equal access to the GVI.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u100	We recalled, every year in France, about 220000 IVG are carried out. Almost three-quarters of them are women under contraception. One in three women will use it in her life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u101	In the words of the 160th rostrum: "Abortion is not an exception, a mistake of course or a failure. It's part of women's lives. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u102	We are considering a proposal for a trans-party law which aims precisely at guaranteeing women the fundamental right to dispose of their bodies by extending the legal period of access to abortion from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. Here I would like to thank our colleague Albane Gaillot for his initiative and his pugnacity to see this measure come to fruition, as well as Marie-Noëlle Battistel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u103	This measure helps to reduce the risk of unsafe abortion by enabling all women to access abortion in safe conditions in France. Women who want to abort always find solutions, sometimes at the cost of their health and life: buying abortive pills on the Internet, making desperate gestures. Let us remember, since it seems necessary: absolutely no one can force a woman who refuses to give life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u104	Many requests for abortion after the legal deadline of 12 weeks of pregnancy concern women who are victims of violence. They are often in complex conjugal or administrative situations. When one claims to fight domestic violence, one must hear this reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u105	The extension of the time frame for abortion also helps to avoid widening the social inequalities between women: going to do an abortion abroad costs three to five times more for women who cannot do it in France. They are still very numerous to go abroad because of the delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u106	This bill is serious. It is supported by many doctors, not for political reasons, but for medical reasons, in direct contact with the public concerned. The National Ethics Advisory Committee has given its green light. The lengthening of this period is based on the abortion technique used. At 12 or 14 weeks of pregnancy, it is still possible to make an abortion by aspiration. This practice is allowed in many European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u107	This right that women have torched, sometimes at the risk of their lives, is greatly threatened by the weakening of public services with the closure of orthogeny centres. But it is also the result of a climate conducive to the regression of women's rights. Every day we hear politicians, polarists, fueling a sexist and misogynist climate, often coupled with a racist climate. This has a real impact on women's rights. Again, women, especially the most vulnerable, pay the heaviest price.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u108	In conclusion, I will quote a few words from Annie Ernaux from her book on abortion: "It was impossible to determine whether abortion was prohibited because it was wrong, or whether it was wrong because it was prohibited. We judged the law, we didn't judge the law. Can we here tonight, ladies and gentlemen, judge the law that sets an abortion deadline that is no longer appropriate? Let's vote on this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC and LT groups as well as non-attached Members]] To you, minister, I ask a decisive question where it is also a matter of delay: can you urge the Government to put this text on the Senate agenda and to ensure that it is promulgated in 2022, before the presidential election? There are issues that do not support the announcement effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u110	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u111	This text follows a unique legislative path: three groups would have had to put it on the agenda successively before the parliamentary shuttle could continue. Let us beware that, once adopted at second reading in this House, this bill, after its likely rejection by the Senate, will be the subject of a joint committee convened by the Government so that its course can finally be completed before the suspension of our work on 28 February.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u112	I would like here to thank the chairman of my group, Christophe Castaner, for proposing the inclusion of this text in this House week. I know his commitment to ensure that the fundamental right to voluntary termination of pregnancy is respected, strengthened and extended. We see this right weakened in the European Union itself, when it is not called into question. Like all rights, the abortion is fragile. Like all rights, it must be protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u113	We meet again to examine the text adopted in committee on 10 February, since the Socialist and related group had finally removed it from the agenda of its parliamentary niche on 18 February. The wall of amendments tabled by the LR Group made its consideration very unlikely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u114	This wall of amendments is now about the same, but this time we will be able to overcome it without problems. What is impassable during the three sessions of the same day becomes easily bypassable in a small week. Obstruction is always a confession of political weakness: the aim of deviating the legislative procedure is only to weaken the legitimacy of the law, and that of the obstructor, who aspires so much to govern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u115	If the law is not a maieutic of morals, the norm it sets is deduced from social reality. And the social reality of our country is that every year thousands of women are forced to go abroad for abortion. However, the extension of the period from 12 to 14 weeks, which aims to better guarantee the care of women at an early stage of their pregnancy, does not pose an ethical problem, contrary to what some would like us to believe. The National Ethics Advisory Committee states in its December 8, 2020 opinion: "The achievement of GVI carries risks that are low, increase with gestational age, but differ little between twelve and fourteen weeks of pregnancy. The extension of the two-week period from 12 to 14 weeks does not pose any difficulties, the Committee adds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u116	It is therefore unnecessary, at this stage, to expand further on this issue. The first reading of this text, on 8 October 2020, preceded the public expression of the ill-being of midwives and the worrying vocation crisis. Dissatisfied with their working conditions, increasing since the beginning of the year strikes and demonstrations, midwives demand professional recognition of their merits, while their training programme is very heavy. The agreement reached last Monday between the Government and hospital unions was necessary. It is particularly welcome: the reality of midwives' tasks must finally be recognised and their training must be adapted accordingly. The profession of midwives confronts them, in large maternity wards, with difficult deliveries, at-risk pregnancies and distress situations. Article 1a, introduced in committee at first reading, extends the competence of midwives to surgical IVGs, thus translating one of the recommendations of the information report on access to IVG that our colleague Marie-Noëlle Battistel and I have given. Amendments adopted since the first reading of the text have made it possible to stress the need to take into account the medical dimension of the midwifery profession, both in terms of training, remuneration or status. We must accompany these professionals. The review of the text will allow for a detailed review of all the proposed measures. In an ideal world, as some have theorized – thus making it possible, despite everything – the sum of the prejudices that weigh on women's lives would be small, to the point that sex education would be taught in a general and appropriate way. The full disposition of his body would become a right. Contraceptive practice would be perfectly and individually regulated. Women's freedom would be better achieved. Unfortunately, this ideal world is not ours. That is why it is up to us, as legislators, to act on the real and to facilitate, by law, the emancipation of women. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur, also applauds]] As you will have understood, the La République group on the move, respecting everyone's opinions, will vote mostly in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u117	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u118	The issue of extending the time limit for recourse to voluntary termination of pregnancy is too important to be the pretext for caricatures and polemics. There are not those who serve the emancipation of women on the one hand and those who limit their rights on the other. The cartoon was never used by the tutelary figures Simone Veil, Gisèle Halimi, or Yvette Roudy to convince them of the correctness of their fight. They didn't need it, because the reforms they proposed required facts and figures. An IVG is not an annoyance to a woman. This is a significant event, which will affect one in three French women in the course of her life. Promoting the extension of the time limit for the use of the IVG from two weeks to fourteen weeks of pregnancy seems to me to be an inappropriate solution to the facts and figures. Are women given the means to freely choose their pregnancy when it is established that the probability of using an abortion decreases with an increase in the standard of living? Indeed, it is an undeniable fact that senior managers are twice as likely to face the decision to abort as workers. Are women being helped by this reform, when, year after year, the number of health institutions practising abortion is decreasing and real medical deserts are being created, especially in the countryside? In 20 years, 50 per cent of maternity wards have closed. Effective access to GVI depends primarily on the hospital card – hospitals practice, I would remind you, 79% of GVI. Forty departments suffer from a shortage of gynaecologists and thirteen no medical gynaecologists, which forces women to travel long distances to consult – when they do not simply give up gynaecological follow-up. I therefore ask: is this bill correcting territorial inequalities? Are our daughters and sons assisted when 25 per cent of schools do not provide sexuality education and the majority of schools do not comply with the three annual sessions provided for by law? A foundation of knowledge and information must be provided to all young people. Sexual education courses are a privileged time to talk about contraception but also about consent. It is through education and prevention that we will contribute in part to limiting the number of abortions. I also regret that this bill does not provide an answer. Are two additional weeks the solution that will prevent 2000 women from going abroad every year to abort? For 70 per cent, the cause of late abortion is lack of knowledge of their pregnancy status. The National Ethics Advisory Committee, compiling data from the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Spain, which host these French women, establishes that the median care of these women is 19 weeks of pregnancy. CCNE also points out that the women concerned contact these countries on average three weeks before abortion, around sixteen weeks of pregnancy. These are facts: this period is significantly higher than the 14 weeks provided for in the bill. The vast majority of French women who resort to late abortion will therefore continue to travel abroad. Finally, we cannot ignore the ethical dimension of such a prolongation. If abortion is never an annoyance, its practice is sensitive and the techniques used can differ between twelve and fourteen weeks: at fourteen weeks, pregnancy has fully begun its second trimester and surgical abortion is required mainly. Only 37% of the professionals interviewed by the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français (CNGOF) in October 2020 stated that they would perform IVGs at the 14-week stage. This undeniably raises the question: two thirds of doctors whose professional vocation is to support women's health are against this reform. The solution provided for in the text, which is to extend the practice of surgical abortion to midwives, seems inappropriate to me. Tracing an obstacle never removed it. Unlike the CCNE, I have not changed my mind: my conviction has only strengthened between the two readings of the text. This bill does not offer solutions or guarantees for the improvement of women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u119	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u120	I see this as an inappropriate response to the shared finding of a lack of information, of education, but also of means, which must no longer be ignored. But you ostensibly ignore it, obsessed that you are by the conviction that progressism is on your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u121	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u122	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I'm finishing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u123	Make it quick, then.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u124	It's five minutes, not five minutes thirty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and Marie-France Lorho also applaud]] For my part, I am looking for the effective improvement of women's rights. However, I assure you: if you refuse to establish an objective diagnosis and to bring about the necessary solutions, our successors will sit in this Chamber in a few years' time to re-examine a text that will extend the deadline for recourse to the IVG, and this will still not be a step forward for women!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u126	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u127	The question that will be before us for the long hours to come is cleavage. It is a matter of power. The body of women itself is an issue of power – often of masculine power, this may be our tragedy. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, places you firmly on the side of women and the opportunity to freely choose their destiny and to have a child or not. This choice, which every woman makes over the course of her life, has a heavy impact on the lives of women, but also children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u128	And men!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u129	Making this choice implies, first and foremost, having access to information. This is a necessary and absolute prerequisite: the woman must first know that she is pregnant, but also know the options at her disposal and know that places exist to guide her and help her to take on her choices. Changing the law to give women more time to make this choice means taking into consideration the time they may need to think about it. To extend this period is also to take note of the fact that women do not have the same access to voluntary termination of pregnancy throughout France. They would be between 3000 and 5000 going abroad to get an abortion because of the legal time limits in force in France – for in essence this is what it is all about: this legal time limit represents a milestone in the lives of women and in their pregnancy. The sooner they become aware of their condition, the greater their ability to decide. But in order for this choice to be made calmly, several conditions are necessary. The first, of course, is to know one another: to know one's body, to know how it works, what its reactions are, to know that a sexual relationship can lead to a pregnancy. Our priority should therefore be to focus on body education, especially at school. If this teaching already exists, we must go further: whether it is to combat sexual violence or to anticipate the arrival of a child, knowledge of the body, especially of its body, is indispensable. The second condition, I mentioned, is that women have access to the necessary information and health professionals. I am thinking of midwives, of course, but also of gynaecologists and doctors working in family planning centres. France's network in this area is in the process of undoing itself, observing access to information, and thus to care. Beyond the lengthening of the deadline for recourse to abortion – which we are going to discuss – there is another fight that we must wage: to allow more trained professionals to perform abortions. I am, of course, referring to the experiment advocated last year by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, which aims to allow midwives to perform surgical IVGs later. The bill endorses this experiment. However, the issues related to this measure still need to be discussed and arbitrated. In particular, we need to think about insurance, training and remuneration issues. I therefore hope that the implementing orders will be issued soon after the vote, which I wish, of this bill. When we address the issue of abortion, we must also hear the concerns and oppositions expressed by some professionals. We must admit that the practice of abortion between twelve and fourteen weeks of pregnancy can be traumatic, for the woman – for it is always a tragedy, despite what some say – but also for the gynaecologist who practices this act. Without suspecting them of wanting to obstruct the parliamentary debate – which echoes, perhaps amplified, the ongoing debate in society – we must hear those who express their concerns, beliefs and beliefs. Nevertheless, we must legislate and decide. Because we have the power to extend the turnaround time for abortion and to help women choose whether or not to bring a child into the world, but also to place health care professionals in complex situations, we need to weigh every word and hear the arguments, as long as they are measured and respectful – it is a democratic imperative. We all share this duty. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM Group and on the panels of the commissions]] I know that the debates will be mixed and that it will be impossible to reach a consensus on the benches of this House – or, sometimes, within the same group. Therefore, it is our individual responsibility, our conviction of the nation's elected representatives, that will prevail. On this issue, Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will speak freely and vote in their soul and conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u130	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u131	I take it from my legal training and my political experience that no right is permanently acquired. This is particularly true of women's rights: they are the result of long struggles, sacrifices and courage. History has taught us that we must never lower our guard and never underestimate the threats to the advancement of women's emancipation and their right to freely dispose of their bodies. Today, the right to abortion is called into question in many countries where it was taken for granted. In Poland, the recent ultra-restrictive legislation on abortion has already led to a tragedy: the death of a 30-year-old woman who was unable to benefit from an abortion while the malformations of her fetus put her life in danger. In France, fortunately, the situation is obviously different. But while the IVG is a right established by the Veil Act of 1975, it is not always fully and effectively guaranteed, as the confinements have brutally reminded us. The initiative of the rapporteur, Albane Gaillot, will have been stifled, proof once again that when it comes to women's rights, there are still many obstacles. Therefore, one year after the passage of this bill at first reading, I am pleased that we can continue the work, despite the rejection of senators and the obstruction of a handful of Members of Parliament who ultimately failed to prevent debate. I welcome President Christophe Castaner, who has fulfilled his commitment by placing it on our agenda. I turn immediately to you, minister: how do you intend to guarantee the outcome of this text, a few months from the end of the quinquennium, when the Government gives only a wisdom opinion – despite your personal position that I have noted correctly – and does not seem determined to have this bill voted definitively? Like our colleague Jeanine Dubie on first reading, I would like to highlight the remarkable work done by the delegation on women's rights, in particular by our fellow rapporteurs, Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti. It was thanks to them that the original text was enriched in the course of the readings. Removing the obstacles that exist to make the right to abortion fully effective is a fight that I fully associate with. This means, first of all, putting an end to the social and territorial inequalities in access to care, which have consequences for the timing of appointments, but also for women's freedom to choose the method. It is often the youngest, the victims of domestic violence, the most precarious, the farthest from the information that are most affected and arrive late in the journeys of IVG. This is why it is necessary to allow an extension of the time to access the abortion in order to respond to these women who arrive out of time for very different reasons: late awareness, denial of pregnancy or complicated care. These difficulties are also the result of chronic under-investment in women's sexual health and even disengagement. Between 2007 and 2017, the number of gynaecologists fell by 41% and seventy IVG centres closed. Every time a motherhood closes in our territories, it's an orthogenic center that disappears. The medical procedure of IVG is poorly valued, including economically. There are few practitioners who realize it. Therefore, it was necessary to open up the conditions for exercise by midwives, whether it is drug-related or surgical-related GVI. But improving access to abortion, far beyond this text, requires a strong awareness and political and budgetary choices that meet the challenges. Finally, beyond the means, we must not underestimate the other obstacles, which are exercised directly by those who deliberately oppose this right, in the name of personal or political convictions, by those who disseminate falsehoods or guilty discourses. It is in this perspective that the deletion of the dual awareness clause specific to the IVG should be considered. Symbolic, it invites above all to invest more massively in the field of orthogeny and more broadly in the field of women's sexual health. This means making information more visible, improving the training of professionals and developing prevention campaigns. Abortion is always a painful act and a difficult decision for women. This text will allow us to move forward and fight against a taboo still well present in our society. [[Applause on committee benches. – Mr. Gérard Leseul also applauds]] As at first reading, members of the Libertés et territoires group will speak out in conscience. For my part, and like a majority of them, I will vote resolutely in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u132	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u133	From ancient Greece or Roman cities to the 20th century through the Middle Ages, historians find traces of abortive practices. Each time they are described as stories of women: women who suffer, women who suffer, women who practice, women who die. Beyond physiology, abortion is therefore a woman's story, as if the sexual intercourse that led to this pregnancy was ignored and as if men did not want to see. Women have always been under the pressure of fertility control and face the consequences of unwanted pregnancies. The history of voluntary termination of pregnancy is therefore inextricably linked to the history of women's rights and society's role in relation to men. "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights," wrote Simone de Beauvoir. We must therefore be vigilant, men and women, so that this right conquered from high struggle is preserved and finds in France the conditions for its exercise, including in a context of crisis like the one we currently know. In France, however, abortion is more a "concession" to women than a right in its own right, as the High Council for Equality between Women and Men wrote in 2013. To be a full right, the conditions for its exercise must be clear and accessible. The number of abortions in France remains relatively stable: about 210,000 each year. It is estimated that almost 40 per cent of women will use it at least once in their lives. The number of GVIs, including among the youngest, may not be due to a lack of contraceptive coverage. According to a survey by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES), two out of three women who used an abortion used a contraceptive method that had not worked. It is therefore clear that public policies in this area must have two complementary parts: an unwanted pregnancy prevention policy and an information policy on access to abortion. However, the State does not evaluate these policies very much. The most recent report of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs (IGAS), dated February 2010, indicated that progress could still be made on prevention. However, beyond statistics, these are never anodized human stories. "No woman resorts to abortion from her heart, just listen to women. It is always a tragedy and it will always remain a tragedy," said Simone Veil in this rostrum. Behind these tragedies are women, social workers who accompany them, families who sometimes support them, sometimes ignore them, sometimes reject them; There are also doctors, midwives and caregivers. Every time, it's a personal and unique story. However, public policies should not leave women alone. First, we owe them fair, rigorous, passionless and objective information. This may seem simple at the time of search engines; However, access to information can sometimes be difficult when lobbyists or associations, under the guise of helping women, encourage them not to use GVI. The same applies to the so-called support forums on which we can read certain testimonies assembled from all parts by opponents of the right to abortion. It is also difficult when you live away from medical facilities and have no means of transport. It is still difficult when the school nurse does not have time to receive because she is alone for too many students. It is difficult when family pressure and promiscuity make research complicated. It is difficult when precariousness adds difficulties to the anxiety of an unwanted pregnancy. It is difficult when you are offered an appointment at the hospital too late for lack of resources, while the High Health Authority recommends that every patient get a consultation within five days. It's hard. It's hard to have an abortion. We therefore need better support for women in order to guarantee the effectiveness of this right conquered more than forty years ago but still threatened by moral entrepreneurs who want to push it back. Because this text affects the intimate, respecting the personal beliefs and beliefs of each of its members, the Action Together group will not give any voting instructions. But we all share the same conviction: there is a need to put more resources in place to support these women. The first of the answers to this fundamental issue is to enable women to have access to this right, which must be real and not just informal. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mrs Delphine Bagarry also applauds]] Tonight, as we discuss this bill, we must also have a thought for all women who live in countries where this right is receding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u134	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u135	It is on the initiative of the Group of the Republic on the move that consideration of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion is on the agenda this week. Every year, a large number of women are forced to go abroad to undergo an abortion because they are out of time in France. The IDU and independent group is particularly concerned about the plight of these women. However, we are not convinced that the extension of the statutory time limit for recourse to IVG from 12 to 14 weeks is the solution. Our colleagues held exactly the same debates in the 2000s when it came to extending the legal deadline from 10 to 12 weeks. It must be noted, however, that this measure did not help to preserve these women from a late abortion. For us, the problem is more that of accessibility to abortion in territories where there is a lack of practitioners, hospital facilities and prevention. How to explain that the rate of use of IVG in the region Pays-de-la-Loire was 11.8 per 1,000 women in 2019, compared with 22.9 in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and 39 in French Guiana in the same year? These territorial disparities clearly reveal the shortcomings, in some territories, that lead to women undergoing abortion. It is on these shortcomings that we must focus our public policies. Women's precariousness is another factor in access to abortion. The DREES, in a recent document, tells us: "For the first time, GVI data have been matched with tax data for 2016. They show a clear correlation between standard of living and GVI; The most precarious women use it significantly more than the most affluent women. » Moreover, the treatment of 100% contraception for girls aged 15 to 18 has reduced the rate of use of abortion, from 9.5 per 1,000 in 2012 to 6 per 1,000 in 2018. It is therefore on this correlation between precariousness and the use of abortion that we need to work more. In fact, the Government had begun to do so by extending the coverage of contraception for women up to 25 years of age in the Social Security Financing Bill by 2022. Simone Veil, in his speech at the National Assembly's rostrum, for the establishment of the IVG, had the right words and managed to maintain an indispensable balance: "I say this with all my conviction: abortion must remain the exception, the ultimate recourse for situations without a solution. But how can we tolerate it without losing this exceptional character, without society appearing to encourage it? » Furthermore, we are deeply opposed to the removal of the double conscience clause – one of the conditions for a balanced abortion situation in our society. On the one hand, you would allow the possibility of returning to the conscience clause by a simple decree. On the other hand, this deletion is contrary to the Constitution because the Constitutional Council, in a 2001 decision, enshrined this clause as a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic. Finally, we are totally opposed to the creation of a national directory listing the names of doctors practising an IVG because such a publication would, a contrario, enable the names of those who do not practise it to be determined. It would be tantamount to questioning, in practice, freedom of conscience. Such a list should be accessible only to a doctor so that it facilitates the referral of a woman to a confrere who practices abortion within short periods of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u136	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u137	In conclusion, we fear that your bill distorts Simone Veil's balance in abortion, between the freedom of women to dispose of their bodies and the protection of the supreme value of life. We are also concerned that these measures do not respond to the problem raised and miss out on the real challenges of prevention, access to reliable information in all territories and the support of all women in their contraception. As at first reading, our group will vote mainly against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u138	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u139	The irony of fate is that I'm talking to you today about IVG with a big belly since I'm eight months pregnant. But this pregnancy was chosen, wanted. And if I'm in front of you today, it's because I've been able to use IVG twice in my youth – we're many who have witnessed such an experience in the last few days. At that time, the material, physical and emotional conditions were not in place for me to pursue a happy maternity project, and I would certainly not be in front of you as a Member of Parliament tonight if I had not had control of my body and destiny at the time. Every day, a lot of women like me use IVG in France, but unfortunately others cannot access it because of a lack of time. As the travaux préparatoires for the drafting of this bill show, this happens too often because of failures of the State and public services. Indeed, once the 12-week deadline has passed, no solution is offered to women wishing to use abortion. Lack of practitioners, medical deserts, barriers or lack of information are all difficulties faced by women facing unwanted pregnancy. The health crisis has exacerbated the difficulties faced by women in the field. The suffocation of health services in recent months has put other medical interventions at the forefront. A Senate report presented in October also pointed out very clearly the lack of gynaecologists in some French rural areas – more than thirteen departments no longer have medical gynaecologists. This glaring lack of resources could be addressed by extending midwives' skills to the surgical method of abortion up to the tenth week of pregnancy. Sad result: every year between 3000 and 5000 women leave France for abortion abroad. In addition to extending the legal time limits for abortion, this bill also aims to make all health professionals involved in women's journeys, by obliging those who refuse to practice abortions to direct the patient towards a structure or professional performing abortions. These proposals for improvement are widely echoed: the text is supported by associations, field professionals and, I welcome, elected representatives from almost all political sides. However, I regret the obstructive behaviour of the Republicans. Let us recall that this text could not be studied at second reading in February. After simply refusing to debate at first reading in the Senate, the deputies of the Republican Group again tabled some 400 voluntarily inoperative amendments, effectively preventing an intelligible and productive debate. I will refer to my constituency: Latin America and the Caribbean. There, the right to abortion is far from being acquired. In Argentina, for example, thanks to feminist activists and their famous green scarves, the general right to use abortion up to fourteen weeks of pregnancy was passed last December. While countries that are taking their first steps in the area of sexual and reproductive rights set a new standard – a 14-week deadline – let's do that in France! Let us protect the achievements of the Veil law and of a right which, after fifty years, seems as practiced as well as weakened. Other fights will have to follow this one, in particular to establish support for women during pregnancy, once it has been chosen. Together with our colleague Albane Gaillot, we have started to detail proposals, within the framework of a genré budget, to recognise and treat the ills of the first three months of pregnancy, to invest in research concerning pregnant women, to improve working conditions for pregnant women or to improve the care of pregnancy through social security. It's time to blow up all these taboos. The first generation of feminists had to hide and make women's bodies forget so that they became subjects of law and not of possession. Today, our new fight must be that of the re-appropriation and celebration of the female, that of the visibilization of the body of women and of the difficulties or injustices that may still be associated with her. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM Group as well as on the benches of the committees and among the non-attached Members]] One last word to thank my colleague and friend Albane Gaillot for her work, all of our colleagues who formed the Group Ecology Democracy Solidarity, for launching this debate, as well as the many women – unfortunately, for the moment, almost exclusively women, as this general discussion shows – and associations mobilized on this subject. Tonight, let us honor women everywhere in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u140	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u141	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u142	On Rule 1, the floor is for Mrs Aurore Bergé.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u143	I'd like to talk to you about three words. The first is "equality". Today, not all women are equal in access to abortion: we do not have the same living conditions, the same family organization, the same social and territorial environment, and we do not necessarily know how to access this right. However, a right must not be merely formal; It must be real. The second word is "barriers". Yes, today there are still barriers to access to this right: some, voluntarily, blame women, some voluntarily disorient them, some voluntarily cause women to find themselves outside the legal time frame for recourse to abortion. Finally, the word "ethics". This word came back a lot in the general discussion, but the ethical question has been decided on many occasions: by the legislator, who made the decision to make the abortion a fundamental right for women; by the National Ethics Advisory Committee, which unanimously decided that there was no difficulty in expanding access to abortion by extending the period from 12 to 14 weeks. Ethics is also what leads us to consider women, first of all women, only women, because it is really about them. They are often spoken of without knowing what they are living or what they are suffering; they are often spoken of by wanting to speak for them – this was again the case with the motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u144	But you're the one who's talking for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u145	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur, also applauds]] No one should talk about women's bodies instead of women; No one should make decisions in their place. This bill, in particular article 1, reaffirms the right to unimpeded access to abortion for all women, regardless of their life course, regardless of the situation they are going through. This is an essential step that we can take today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u146	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u147	I wish I had been convinced by the text that you are defending, Mrs Gaillot, you and all those who support it. I really wish I had been convinced by this bill. I would have liked it to have been designed to ensure that women's rights were respected; I wish I had been convinced – not to go against the current, not to be criticized, perhaps out of cowardice. I would have liked to, but I am shocked by this proposal, which strongly challenges me because abortion at fourteen weeks of pregnancy is presented there as a common medical act and a step forward for women's rights; However, whatever you say, this text does not respect them in any way. Article 1, far from improving their rights, unfortunately proposes a more risky surgical procedure for women...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u148	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u149	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u150	That's not what doctors say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u151	... and more difficult for practitioners – and I'm not saying it. How can we talk about women's rights when we make them take more risks...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u152	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u153	... by extending the legal deadline – and, I repeat, I'm not saying it? How can we talk about the respect of women's rights when, instead of proposing a better organization of services so that women do not find themselves out of time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u154	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u155	That's not what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u156	...we prefer a more difficult and therefore psychologically heavier gesture for her, as President Macron himself said? "I measure the trauma that it is to abort" – he is a man who speaks. He adds: "I will never live it. That doesn't prevent me from measuring it with much more respect than people who think it's nothing to abort at sixteen weeks. » However, that is what this bill does. How can we talk about the respect of women's rights when, by law, they take away the time for reflection, lest they return to their choice? This delay is not infantilizing, contrary to what you claim. How can you talk about women's rights when you do not respect the opinions of other women, who diverge from yours, while many voices rise against this act? Finally, can we simply talk about respect for human rights, when, on their behalf, we give permission to suck a foetus that is only growing and growing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u157	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u158	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This reality is disturbing, I understand it. We advocate freedom of expression for all, but in reality some want to convey a unique thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u159	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u160	I heard whistles earlier. That is true, some words are really shocking, but let me say that this is not the – noble – idea of our democratic debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u161	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u162	We all agree that this subject is far too sensitive, painful, intimate, to be treated in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u163	What other one then?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u164	I do not deny for a moment the suffering of women – not to mention that of men – who, whatever the reason, have decided to abort and have exceeded the legal term. Of course, there is no question of questioning the right to abortion. [[Applause on many benches in the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Yes, there are deep inequalities in our territory; Yes, there are profound injustices – President Castaner said so. But I ask myself: how will the legal deadline of 12 to 14 weeks be increased to remedy these inequalities, these injustices? Will this strengthen prevention, with which we all regret the deficit, or increase the number of practitioners, which we all find insufficient? Will this increase the number of structures that practice IVG? Let me doubt that. In a few years, will we meet for the same reasons and will we increase again, in the name of the woman's freedom to dispose of herself, the period from fourteen to sixteen weeks?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u166	Other questions: Are you absolutely sure that women's freedom is intrinsically linked to the possibility of abortion up to sixteen weeks? Is it reactionary to wonder about this – I know the reproaches that will be made to me? Last question, ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me: do you really think it is progressive to increase the legal deadline?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u167	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u168	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Chill and Mr Guillaume Chiche also applaud]] For my part, I am obviously opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u169	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u170	I would like to make this solemnly clear: there is no question of making any judgement on women who resort to abortion. Their calamity, their distress call us to the greatest restraint and no one stands here as a judge. This clarification, it seems to me to be necessary to go back to the facts. I suggest you, as at first reading, do one thing: go online and watch what a 14-week-old fetus looks like in her mother's belly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u171	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u172	It's a baby...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u173	He wasn't born, so he's not a baby!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u174	... who can fold his fingers, tighten his fist, suck his thumb – yes, suck his thumb. So even though some women decide to abort and say they live it – so much the better for them – others are deeply bruised. To deny this evidence, to ignore it is a new slap, a new drama for these women. And the longer the legal time to abort, the more traumatic abortion can be because the woman's body feels another body growing in her. [[Nicolas Meizonnet applauds]] The arguments that you put forward to extend the abortion deadlines are the same as those that were heard in 2001 to increase from ten to twelve weeks, the same as ever. You haven't even updated your numbers and nothing has changed, proof that you're taking the problem upside down. There is a need to work upstream because longer time frames will not address the issue of access to care. To make it appear that the emancipation of the woman would find her completion in the extension of the abortion period is a mistake not to say a lie. But to those women who are suffering, do not displease you, we owe only the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u175	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u176	Let me remind you, first of all, that at four, five, six, seven, eight, twelve or perhaps soon fourteen weeks, an IVG is still traumatic. No one's doing it with heartache. Secondly, as I have already said here in the debate on the bioethics law: let us pay attention to the words we speak...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u177	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u178	[[Exclaims on many benches in the LR group]] ...because if our interventions are filmed and watched, and are even the subject of an official report, it is not without reason. Let us weigh our words carefully because they can be heard or read by women in doubt, sometimes even in the grip of guilt, and this is not the simplest time in their lives to question whether or not they decide to undergo an IVG. If we use the words "baby," "sucks his thumb," or I don't know what else, in this time of distress for some of them, it can have serious consequences. We may disagree, but let us be careful not to cause women to suffer in our words, who, in any case, will not live their situation in a cheerful way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u179	But we're talking about reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u180	We come to the amendments. I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 8, 14, 37, 47, 66, 160 and 211, to delete Article 1. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u181	As in the general discussion, I will rely on Simone Veil's speech in the rostrum of this House, which said that "if the law is general and therefore abstract, it is meant to apply to individual situations which are often distressing; that if it no longer prohibits, it does not create any right to abortion." Contrary to the very title of this text, which aims to "strengthen the right to abortion", I prefer to follow the line of Simone Veil, who refused all right to abortion. She had been able to achieve a subtle balance on this delicate issue, a balance that you are emancipating from. I am not convinced that the extension of the legal deadline is an answer for these women – I was able to elaborate on the reasons for this during the general discussion. I will always point out that the problem is more about access to abortion in the territories because of the lack of practitioners, the lack of hospital facilities and the lack of prevention. I would add that the practice of abortion at 14 weeks is not the same as at 12 weeks, and that it even requires a completely different medical act, which is reflected in the hearings organised by the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women in the information report on access to voluntary termination of pregnancy. On page 63, "A number of practical problems related to the implementation of the extension of the legal deadline were raised during the hearings of the Rapporteurs. Dr Philippe Faucher, gynecologist-obstetrician and president of REVHO [Réseau entre la ville et l'hospital pour l'orthogénie], explains that from twelve weeks of pregnancy, the method of instrumental abortion is no longer the same: it requires training for other gestures. However, it would appear that practitioners are not currently trained to do so. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u183	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u184	The extension of abortion that you intend to introduce is ethically questionable, but also medically because, from fourteen weeks on, abortion becomes more difficult to achieve and can lead to complications. It should be noted that at this stage of pregnancy, the size of the foetus imposes dilaceration and that the consequences for the woman can be most severe. A medical professor pointed out that it was not acceptable not to hear such alerts regarding women's health. Moreover, the desire to extend abortion to fourteen weeks is inspired only by ideology. Thus, in Strasbourg's university hospitals, every year only about ten women appear in the abortion service after exceeding the legal deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u185	Of course it's forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u186	Proposing an extremely serious legislative provision for particular cases is not audible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u187	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u188	To justify the extension of abortion time, you always make the same arguments and always the same figures. Thus, in your opinion, thousands of women would be forced each year to travel abroad to have an abortion judged out of time in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u189	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u190	But let me recall what Professor Israel Nisand, President of the National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians, says:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u191	It's not a good choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u192	..."I don't know where these numbers come from and they surprise me. During the drafting of the Aubry law in 2001, the Family Planning had given me exactly the same data – this data came from Danielle Bousquet's information report from... 2000. In Strasbourg's university hospitals, every year, only about ten women contact us after exceeding the legal deadline for abortion. Either they have made a denial of pregnancy, or they are very young teenagers. We take care of them as part of a medical interruption of pregnancy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u193	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u194	... "which makes it possible to better surround them and help them properly in their difficult situation. In 20 years, I have never sent a single woman abroad for her abortion and I consider that those who do so do not respect the law of France which allows the psychosocial IMG without delay. So I ask you where do these numbers from 3000 to 5000 women abort each year abroad that you are advancing to justify your legislation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u195	Amendment No 47 by Mr Yves Hemedinger is being defended. Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u196	The argument put forward to justify this extension of the period of possible recourse to abortion is that women would otherwise exceed the legal time limit and would then be forced to go abroad for abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u197	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u198	But this could be the same argument for the following weeks, until the end of pregnancy! Why not six months, for example, since it's legal abroad for up to six months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u199	But stop it, it's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u200	The figure advanced from 3000 to 5000 women each year is the same as announced when the delay was extended from 10 to 12 weeks of pregnancy in 2001. This is always based on the same arguments, with in addition the argument that women would have had difficulty accessing abortion during confinement, without providing any evidence. To the lack of doctors, your answer is abortion. Not all of these arguments stand the way. In fact, we have no reliable analysis of the figures or the reasons why a number of women would go abroad. Such data could shed light on possible shortcomings in public policies and on preventive policies to be pursued. Abortion late, at more than three months of pregnancy, is very violent for women, especially since medically, abortion is made more complex due to the greater size of the fetus. Where does the new limit of fourteen weeks come from instead of twelve? The answer was given to us by our colleague Elsa Faucillon during our last debate on the evaluation of public policies on access to abortion. I quote: "The lengthening of this period is confined to the abortion technique used. At 12 or 14 weeks of pregnancy, it is still possible to make an abortion by aspiration. » [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] But what is a child at fourteen weeks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u201	A fetus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u202	... and what is an aspiration abortion? I pay attention to the words I use, but that is the reality: at fourteen weeks, the baby...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u203	The fetus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u204	... measures 14 centimetres for almost 100 grams; if it is a boy, the acorn and foreskin form; the proportions of his body are harmonized and the skeleton is solidified; he can fold his fingers, tighten his fists and suck his thumb;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u205	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u206	... it also begins to give a few blows, too weak to be felt. I say again that I pay attention to the words I use, but that is the reality that cannot be denied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u207	Mrs. Chill, we have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u208	Aspiration abortion is an operation performed under general anaesthesia...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Chill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u210	Oh, no! We don't thank her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u211	[[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Caroline Fiat regularly hits her desk]] It'd be nice if I was allowed to talk. This operation consists of shredding and aspirating the remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u212	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u213	We're approaching the four minutes! It's not a general discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u214	The right to...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u215	[[Mr. President shuts down the microphone]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Thill, but that's the only way to stop you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u216	Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u217	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u218	This article proposes a two-week extension from the twelfth week to the fourteenth week. However, contrary to what is alleged in the explanatory memorandum, there are many medical and scientific arguments which make it possible to oppose this prolongation, as colleagues have already pointed out. Indeed, this two-week difference is important since during this period the transition from the embryo to the foetus occurs physiologically, rapid and significant changes take place and, from that moment on, it is possible to individualize many of the characteristics of the developing child. The impact on the act itself is all the more important. Therefore, in view of this, I would like you to tell us, Minister, because you have not yet provided this information, how many women are involved today? Secondly, we can see that the real question is that of the public policy followed in this area because, Mr. Minister, if women are now obliged to consider exceeding the legal deadlines, it is that the information has not been done correctly when it is your responsibility. Instead of dealing with the real issue, that of upstream information, you prefer to extend the deadlines by saying that this is the only thing to do, otherwise the women concerned would be obliged to continue to go abroad. Only when a public policy does not work, we must carry the iron to improve it. By entering into a logic that it would be enough to go from twelve to fourteen weeks to solve the problem, we are completely changing the balance of the Veil law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u219	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u220	[[Olivier Marleix applauds]] ...what you seem to be neglecting. This fundamental balance, I insist, is being broken. And on this point, we have absolutely not heard you, which is why the aim of this amendment is the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u221	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u222	Since the first reading, you have been heard, Mr. Minister, as the spokesperson for women... But, as women, we too carry their word, no doubt not the same as yours. Of course, you said abortion was not an innocent act, but you're trying to make us believe that it would be a normal medical act... You reject in truth any contradiction, you refuse to be told what is going on from twelve to fourteen weeks: yes, the skull ossifies, yes, the baby...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u223	The fetus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u224	[[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...saw his thumb in his mother's belly; Yes, that's the reality you don't want to hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u225	But he's not a baby! It's not a baby!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u226	But let her talk, damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u227	Only Mrs Blin has the floor. I would like, especially on a subject like this, to have our debates calm, but that is the least of the things. Everyone is free to speak, but I ask you to avoid the invectives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u228	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] This is the best illustration of what I'm saying: you don't suffer the contradiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u229	You're insulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u230	Mrs. Blin, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u231	I have not spoken so far and what I am saying deserves to be heard as much as your speeches, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u232	Come back to the bottom of your speech, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u233	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Agnes Thill applauds]] You claim to have the voice of women by proposing to put an end to unwanted pregnancies after fourteen weeks, but, if their situation may be difficult, the question is, minister, whether you are putting public policies in place to accompany them. They would not necessarily have chosen to continue their pregnancy, but could tomorrow look after their children properly, even if their arrival was not at the appropriate time. But do you propose for them other modalities than abortion? No, you only propose to put an end to pregnancies because it is your only militant goal to end life without even seeking to reconcile women's interests with the right to life to be born.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u234	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u236	Several arguments were made against the extension of the time limit for recourse to abortion from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. Some have argued that failure of means led us to extend the time limit. Yes, there are territorial inequalities; Yes, there are places where the use of GVI is more difficult than elsewhere. The lengthening of the deadline is only one solution, it does not at all mean that we do not seek to act on the fluidity of the journey of the IVG, as is already the case. There are a number of accompaniments. I have heard that this is the only solution for pregnant women and that we absolutely want them to have abortions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u237	The proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u238	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Excuse me, but it's the women who choose. We do not want anything in the place of women, we only want access to abortion to be an effective right, which it is not today. That is why we will oppose your amendments. You also invoke ethics. Let me remind you of the opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee: there is little – if any – difference between twelve and fourteen weeks of pregnancy, so there is no ethical objection to extending the time for access to the abortion by two weeks. [[Marie-Pierre Rixain and Gérard Leseul applaud]] Finally, you question the figures according to which between 3000 and 5000 women would be forced to go abroad every year for abortion. You say it's 2000 or less. Basically, it doesn't matter: if only 500 women did not have access to abortion in France, it would still be 500 too many for which solutions would have to be found. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u240	The general discussion has already allowed me to address a number of issues, so I will come back to a few points. Both in the various introductory interventions and in the presentation of the amendments to delete Article 1, several remarks were made concerning the difficulties of access to structures practising IVG in the territories. Yes, there are territorial disparities; Yes, for IVG, as for other medical care, the current medical demography does not help. We see these territorial disparities. Let me recall what we are doing to strengthen access to the IVG in order to make it a real right. We increased the time to access IVG drugs in the city from five to seven weeks of pregnancy. In addition, solutions put in place during the health crisis have been extended in the common law to allow teleconsultations on drug abortion. In particular, we had planned it for minors who, during a period of confinement, would not have wanted to explain to their parents why they had to go out for a medical appointment. This worked well and we were able to continue the application of the device. At the same time, we are diversifying places that can carry out abortions, with an extension to health centres. It was a commitment that had been made; The decrees are signed and this measure is operational. We are also working on a better identification of structures capable of performing late abortions, to find specialists who are inclined to practice them – all doctors or midwives who practice abortions do not necessarily want to perform late abortions, hence the debate on the awareness clause that we will soon have. Furthermore, I recall that we have extended access to contraception, now free of charge for women up to 25 years of age – this was voted in the Social Security Financing Bill. We extended the long-term sexual health consultation to all young people up to the age of 25 to strengthen health information, prevention and promotion, and to prevent women from finding themselves, for lack of prevention or promotion of sexual health, in unmanageable problematic situations that could cause them suffering. Who are we talking about? Not exclusively, but for the most part, women who are known to suffer from social inequalities. Women who are far from traditional care networks, women who, regardless of the territory in which they live, will later perceive their pregnancy. Sometimes it takes the form of a denial, sometimes they don't necessarily realize it. Again, even if this is not always the case, they are women who often face precariousness. Mr Hetzel, you have a good game of saying that it is the fault of the Minister of Health. Forgive me, but this argument is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u241	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u242	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Of course you do, and you know that: you are one of the parliamentarians who follow a naturalist current. It's your right, but you don't claim it – it's a shame. Make it clear that you are for life and the right to life no matter what. Since I've known you – we've been walking together for ten years – you've always opposed societal advances with the same false arguments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u243	Argument really!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u244	... instead of assuming your positions. Your reasons are your own and you do not have to be ashamed of them, but argue on the merits: say that you are against, but not that it is the fault of this or that. Honestly, this is not up to the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u245	You're the one who's not up to the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u246	No woman must be without choice and therefore without rights. That is what we want to avoid. On the proposed extension of the deadline – and therefore on all the amendments that will be submitted – the Government will issue a wisdom opinion. That did not mean that the Government encouraged the majority to vote on the deletion amendments, but it believed that the debate should continue on those issues. The rapporteur has pointed out very well the position of the CCNE which seems to me to be in line with the current rules of ethics that prevail in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u247	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] It's misleading, as an argumentation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u248	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u249	We will vote against the amendments. One cannot hear that a woman suffers; a woman chooses. Some have spoken of trauma and suffering: it can be painful, but it remains a choice that, under no circumstances, is suffered. Moreover, let us all agree on the various benches of the Chamber: up to twelve or fourteen weeks, we are talking about fetuses and embryos,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u251	...no baby or human being until he gets out of mom's body. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the LR group. – Ms Marie-France Lorho exclaimed]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Guillaume Chiche also applauds]] Some have the impression that we would be the representatives of women, forgetting those who are against abortion. Where did you read in the bill that the abortion will be systematically proposed to any pregnant woman? Nowhere. Stop opposing both. If a woman is opposed to abortion, she will not be obliged to use it. The IVG will not be proposed to him. Mrs Lorho, you can protest, but it is the reality of the text that is proposed to us. Don't be frustrated, blaming us not to talk about all women. Yes, we think of those who are opposed to abortion and no one will force anyone to undergo an abortion. But we also think of women who wish to be entitled to an abortion; Thanks to us, they will be able to use it for up to fourteen weeks of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u252	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u253	I will rest my question, because I have not had a satisfactory answer. Madam rapporteur, when I ask where you get your figures from between 3000 and 5000 women who go abroad every year on the pretext that they are out of time in France, you answer: "In fact, we don't know too much; Even if there were only 500, it would be enough to act. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u254	Even if only one woman was concerned, we'd have to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u255	Mrs. Fiat, it would be nice to let me finish. Forgive me, but all this isn't very serious. Do you have an impact assessment or other documents to explain your figures?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u256	Yes, read the reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u257	Since last year, we have been discussing a bill that you are basing exclusively on a range of between 3000 and 5000 women, and you are telling us tonight that, in fact, we do not know about it, and that it may not be those figures. I will quote Bertrand de Rochambeau, president of the main union of gynaecologists in France. He explained that one of the causes of poor access to abortion on French territory was the fact that not all public hospitals offered abortion services up to 12 weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u258	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u259	Due to the absence of doctors, we are already unable to perform abortions up to 12 weeks of pregnancy, and you still want to extend the time limit by increasing it to 14 weeks. This physician-gynecologist assures that such legislation will in no way improve access to GVI for the majority of patients. According to him, "rather than extending the legal deadline, let's empower hospitals to manage all GVIs as emergencies." Moreover, in a press release in October 2020, the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français asked the following question, which I make my own: "Increasing the legal deadline because we cannot receive women applying for abortion at the time of their application, is it improving women's rights? I'd like to have answers to all these questions because, for now, I'm still a little hungry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u260	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u261	[[Caroline Fiat and Gérard Leseul applaud]] Mrs Ménard does not seem to have fully understood the meaning of my speech. You are challenging the figures, but in our view, no matter how many women would not have access to the abortion – whether it be 5000, 3000, 2000 or 500 – our commitment would be the same because the right must be effective. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Caroline Fiat and Gérard Leseul also applaud]] For your information, the association of clinics accredited to the practice of IVG has confirmed to us that about 1000 French people use an IVG each year in Spain. Everything is written in the report. In the Netherlands, the Ministry of Health confirms that 800 French women per year use abortion. Already for these two countries, the total is 1800 women – that is, 1800 too many.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u262	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u263	[[Caroline Abadie and Caroline Fiat applaud]] Mrs Ménard, we have already had this kind of debate in another area which has nothing to do with it, but I will allow myself to make a formal link. It was about the practice of the LDC abroad. During the examination of the law, I heard the argument of the number. Aren't we going to make a law for only a few hundred or maybe a thousand women? When we opened the LDC to single women and married women, we had anticipated and budgeted some 1,000 applications for the year 2021. We are in November and there are already more than 3000. This means that, by definition, we underestimate practices that cannot be carried out in France since they are not legal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u264	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u265	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] When they are carried out abroad, there is no large register of illegal practices. Madam Member, admit that people do not declare in a great grimoire what they have done abroad when they have no right to do so in their country. These are estimates, and the most rigorous ones are in the CCNE report, which I am sure you have read. I don't understand why you're asking the question: I know you're working on the subject. We don't agree with the analyses and interpretations you're doing, but I know you're working. According to this report, 1500 to 2000 late abortions – beyond 12 weeks – are carried out abroad. Perhaps we should add some that, as you have quite rightly said, are transformed into medical interruptions of pregnancy. We had a debate about the medical interruption of late pregnancy for psychosocial reasons and I do not think you were in favour of that option either. To say that women only have to resort to abortion for psychosocial reasons while you would vote against it if you were asked for your opinion does not seem entirely credible to me either.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u266	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u267	Of course, there is no women's spokesperson here, no one can claim to be such. On the other hand, it is a question of defending women's freedom of choice, and therefore the freedom to choose to abort or not to abort. That is simply what we are trying to defend. In their arguments, some argue that this choice and right should be restricted by imposing more restrictive limits than those offered by medicine. Like others, I pointed out in the general discussion that the dismantling of public services, but also of structures resulting from feminist activism, as well as all attacks on women's rights are a serious problem for access to abortion. In fact, I consider that the political family of the right has largely participated, with successive laws weakening public health services and family planning. You also talk about the right to contraception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u268	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u269	[[Caroline Fiat and Albane Gaillot, rapporteur, applaud]] During the previous mandate, the Île-de-France region removed the contraceptive pass. You should remember that! I would like to have a debate on public services and public health needs in order to allow an effective right to abortion, but it still needs to be sincere. When I say this on the dismantling of public services, I consider that you have participated as much as the current Government. However, this issue is essential: a public service must be defended throughout the country to enable women to have access to abortion. This is essential but it is not enough and this delay is necessary and more than necessary to reaffirm and allow a real right of access to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u270	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1077.u271	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further to the second reading of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. The meeting is adjourned.
