ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for research and higher education (No 4524, Volume III, Annexes 32 and 33; 4597, Volumes IV and V; 4527, Volume XIII; 4502, Volume X). Mr Chouat, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u3	Before I present, for the last fiscal year of this Parliament, the appropriations of the Research Mission, of which I have been the rapporteur since 2019, I want to return for a moment to the context in which the review of the Finance Bill (FPL) for 2022 is taking place. It is, first of all, the implementation, for the second year in a row, of the trajectory set by the Research Programming Act – LPR – which Parliament adopted in December 2020 and which is expected to continue its rise until 2030. It is also that of an economic, social and ecological revival which must be based on a powerful effort in favour of research and innovation so that France – whose delay in doing so has been highlighted by the health crisis – regains its position at European and international level. This is the meaning of the France 2030 plan announced by the President of the Republic on 12 October, which foresees a massive investment in breakthrough innovations, such as those of biomedical research. While the LPR has laid the foundation for French catching-up in research and innovation, France's real effort must therefore be considered beyond the examination of this mission alone, in particular with the recovery plan and the PIA 4, or fourth investment programme of the future, which will be continued and amplified in 2022. They are expected to contribute to the financing of research and higher education policies, the first for an amount of up to EUR 1.5 billion in payment appropriations in 2022, and the second for EUR 3.5 billion. In addition to these sources of funding, support is provided at regional and European level: the new generation of State-region plan contracts, or CPER, is expected to spend at least EUR 244 million on the research and innovation component over the period 2021-2027, at least equal to the level of funding deployed between 2015 and 2020, and Horizon Europe is planning to finance nearly EUR 96 billion between 2021 and 2027, of which EUR 5.4 billion will be committed over the next three years under the Recovery Plan. The Mission's appropriations correspond to the commitments made. Of the six programmes covered by the special report, they reach EUR 12 billion in commitment authorisations – EA – and EUR 11.9 billion in payment appropriations – CP – an increase of almost EUR 200 million and 375 million respectively. The appropriations for Programme 172 are increasing by EUR 422 million in commitment authorisations and this increase is particularly beneficial to the National Research Agency, which is increasing its allocation by EUR 157 million, an increase of 17.4%. Other programme operators also benefit from a significant increase in their resources. This is the case for the CNRS, the National Centre for Scientific Research, the INSERM, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, and the CEA, the Office of the Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy Commissioner, which have their appropriations increased by almost 9 million, 35.8 million and 25.4 million, respectively. The appropriations for the 150 programme, on the other hand, increase by EUR 203.4 million in payment appropriations, of which EUR 137.5 million under the statutory and compensatory measures provided for by the LPR to increase the resources allocated to research, which represents almost 70% of the increase. Similarly, the appropriations for programme 193, Space Research, are increasing by €76.7 million, in line with the path set out in the RPA. With regard to Arctic and Antarctic polar research, I would like to solemnly thank our colleague Jimmy Pahun, Member of Parliament for Morbihan, who has been able to mobilize almost all the political groups of our Assembly to engage in a fruitful dialogue with the Government on the need to increase the capacity for action of the French Polar Institute Paul-Émile-Victor – IPEV. As a result of the work carried out by OPECST, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Options, under the auspices of Huguette Tiegna and by the Committee on Foreign Affairs under the authority of Eric Girardin and Meyer Habib, amendments had already been tabled last June when the draft law on amending finance was examined. The Minister made two strong commitments very recently: funding the renovation of the Dumont-d'Urville Antarctic Station to the tune of €8 million over four years, including €1 million from 2021, and raising the IEVI employment ceiling by five full-time equivalents – FTEs – in addition to the two already committed. I have tabled, as Special Rapporteur and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, two amendments to give effect to these announcements. Other colleagues have tabled similar amendments, which we will consider in a moment. I will conclude by stating that, in the context of the non-attached articles that we will be discussing here on 10 November, I will table, following the Working Group on the Research Tax Credit – CIR – which I have led with the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin and Christine Pires Beaune, an amendment to compensate for the abolition of the doubling of the base voted in the original finance law for 2021. We are working with the Government to find a positive outcome in this regard. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I therefore give a favourable opinion on the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u4	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u5	As every year since the beginning of this mandate, the budgets of programs 150, Higher Education, and 231, Student Life, continue to grow very significantly. In its last budget implementation note on these programmes, the Court of Auditors notes that the increase was almost three times that of the previous five years, proof that a catch-up and investment movement on these tasks, which are essential for the country's future, has been undertaken. It will continue in 2022, with a further step in the implementation of the Research Programming Act. You will object to me, and it will be quite legitimate, that there are more and more students. Student demography is very dynamic: if budgetary efforts in favour of higher education institutions and student life are undeniable, are they really sufficient to maintain the average expenditure per student at its level? Well, not only are these credits growing at a rate three times higher than it was during the previous quinquennium, but also, if we look closely at the figures of the appropriations allocated to public higher education institutions, i.e. mainly universities, and report them to the number of students, we find that these expenses increased from €8472 per student in 2017 to €8631 in 2021, without even taking into account the new resources derived from the student and campus life contribution – CVEC – neither the credits of the PIA nor even those of the State-region plan contracts. Yes, Madam Minister, with the support of this majority, you have been at the meeting of the indispensable change in the budget path for our students and universities, and this movement must continue in the coming years. By 2022, under the 150 programme, which abounds mainly the public service subsidy paid to universities, the new means will make it possible to continue the reforms already under way. First of all, it will be the application of the second year of the Research Programming Act: 144 million euros additional will strengthen the attractiveness of scientific careers, diversifying recruitment channels and upgrading doctoral contracts, while ensuring for the first time that any new lecturer will not be recruited with a remuneration of less than twice the SMIC. Secondly, the reform of the second cycle of health studies will continue, including the introduction of more practice-based teaching and evaluation. This will be, thirdly, the continuation of the law of 8 March 2018 relating to the orientation and success of students, with the financing of additional places in the fields of tension or specialized courses for students most at risk of failure. The additional appropriations granted to the 150 programme must also make it possible to sustain actions decided during the health crisis, in particular with regard to student support. Eighty additional psychologists had been recruited from the university health services, and every student could now benefit from free consultations with a registered psychologist, which was to be welcomed. The credits that benefit our universities are not just from the 150 program: the stimulus plan also contributes to it. In 2022, EUR 84 million will finance the creation of an additional 30,000 places in higher education. While we should welcome this proactive policy, I hope that certain aspects will be further improved. In particular, the strategic and management dialogue needs to evolve to allow for a better multi-year vision of available funding and to provide universities with a tool for anticipating, evaluating and discussing key projects. With regard to the 231 programme, support for student life is also reinforced by more than €3 billion by 2022. First of all, an additional €180 million will help to preserve and develop financial support schemes for students, while at the same time returning to a logic of targeted aid consistent with the exit from the crisis. The 1 euro restaurant ticket is thus maintained for scholarship students and for some non-students in precarious situations, while the other students continue to enjoy a meal at a single social rate of 3.30 euros. The indexation of rents in university residence remains frozen, the amount of grants on social criteria is increased by 1 % at the beginning of 2021 and additional grants are increased, in particular emergency aid, for both scholarship and non-students. New measures complement the existing arrangements: 1500 distributors of free periodic protections have been installed, since the beginning of the school year, in university residences and CROUS, in regional centres for academic and academic works, as well as in certain areas of university restoration. I also welcome the very significant increase in funds dedicated to student health and cultural and sports activities. This budget spends an additional $12 million, an increase of more than 20 per cent over 2021. As with Program 150, the Recovery Plan also participates in student life. In particular, I am pleased that EUR 16 million abounds the student loan guarantee, in addition to the EUR 4 million provided for in the 231 programme. This is, compared to 2021, a quintupling of the possibilities of loans without bail to finance his studies. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that you adopt the appropriations for programmes 150 and 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u6	Mrs Danièle Hérin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u7	I will begin with a statement on the 2021 budget: the commitments made during the vote on the research programming law have been fulfilled, despite the health crisis and the emergency measures that the Government has had to take to speed up scientific research against covid-19 and to support institutions in difficulty. There is an increase of €390 million for research organisations – Programme 172 – and university research – Programme 150 – as well as an increase in the appropriations of the National Research Agency – ANR – which increased the success rate of its calls for projects from 17% in 2020 to 23% in 2021 and the precipit rate paid to institutions from 19% in 2020 to 25% in 2021. This year, 160 million will be distributed to institutions and laboratories, compared to less than 100 million in 2020. A positive dynamic has thus begun, which benefits research actors. The draft finance law for 2022, applying the trajectory set out in the programming law, reinforces this dynamic: an increase of 422 million euros for research organisations and 138 million for university research; continued increase in the ANR budget, with funding increasing by 131 million, plus 142 million credits from the Recovery Plan, thus providing the Agency with an intervention budget of more than EUR 1 billion. After the increase of more than 20% last year, this will represent a further increase of 17.4% in 2022. The ANR is finally becoming an international standard research funding agency, with the goal of a 30% call success rate and a 40% precipitate rate. Such figures had been expected for more than ten years by research actors, organizations and universities. Resources for research institutions and universities increase in the PLF by EUR 127 million. In particular, they will strengthen laboratory staffing and support employment. As far as human resources are concerned, salaries are being increased, since EUR 114 million will be earmarked for wage measures for research personnel, irrespective of their status, civil servants or contractors under public or private law who work in universities or research organisations, and whether they are researchers, engineers or technicians. The number of doctoral contracts is also increasing. The funds dedicated to research infrastructures, those dedicated to the new national agency for research on emerging infectious diseases – the NSRI – and those dedicated to the opening up of science on society, whose pandemic has shown us the importance, are on the rise. In addition to this funding, the contributions to research made by the Recovery Plan and the IAP 4 should be added. In addition to the funding to strengthen the NRA I mentioned, EUR 172 million will support employment in research to prevent companies from falling out of research in the current crisis. For example, 40% of the overall envelope of IAP 4, or almost €8 billion out of €20 billion, is entrusted to the ANR to finance strategic investments, including the creation of priority research programmes and equipment (PRSPs). This last budget of the legislature, after many years of stagnation in the French research budget, should help to improve the attractiveness of France. It confirms the dynamism we have shown in this area, particularly with the passage of the RPA. I would like to point out that many measures such as raising the salaries of research staff, accompanying researchers, the rate of precipitation or selection of projects have been expected for many years. Previous laws often focused on structuring research. So much time for researchers to bring together structures, to create new ones! For the first time, research staff have been placed at the heart of the law: raising salaries, increasing budgets of agencies and universities to make research professions attractive. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to adopt the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u8	Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u9	The latest financial laws for the higher education budget and student life have been strongly affected by the health crisis, in particular the 231 Student Life programme, which has been mobilised to guarantee students housing and feeding conditions enabling them to study with serenity. Measures to support their purchasing power remain a priority in this draft budget for 2022. Since 2017, the upward momentum of the higher education budget has not stopped. The number of students is increasing, as are the credits allocated to them and to a greater extent each year. The Mission's budget – programs 150 and 231 – increased by almost $1.3 billion during this legislature. This year again, the 150 F programmes for higher education and university research and 231 Vie étudiant see their credits increase by 2.6% in commitment authorizations and 2.3% in payment appropriations, i.e. an additional 400 million euros in both cases. The total budget thus stood at 17.2 billion euros for 2022. The 150 higher education and university research programme will reach more than EUR 14 billion in commitment authorisations in 2022. It covers training in bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees, higher education institutions and structures for supporting and disseminating knowledge. It has several strong axes: the application of the research programming law for the years 2021 to 2030 which results in a strengthening of the attractiveness of scientific careers; the Student Plan, to combat the failure of a bachelor's degree; the adaptation of the training offer to demography, with credits combined with those of the mission France revives to create new places. Since 2017, 74,000 new places have been opened in higher education institutions. In the re-entry of 2021, 34,000 additional places were created, including more than 13,000 in the first year. Nevertheless, the lines of psychology and law remain in tension. Students need to be better distributed and this will involve improving the orientation and selection of candidates for the master's degree. The "Find My Master" platform needs to be enriched with more predictability and transparency for students, in the spirit of what exists with Pathup at the end of the senior year. In the case of doctoral students, 170 new doctoral contracts were distributed to 49 institutions at the beginning of 2021. Of the first-year PhD students whose financial situation is known, 74% received specific funding for their PhD at the start of 2020, compared to only 69.8% at the start of 2017. Finally, we note the continuation of the reform of health studies. The 231 Student Life program provided flexibility and effectiveness in providing additional means to ensure that students are best accompanied in the face of the consequences of the covid-19 health crisis. Student support measures are up 6.4% for more than €3 billion in commitment authorisations. I take this opportunity to acknowledge the commitment of the institutions and the CROUS during the health crisis because they were on the front line to support our students. There are many aids: emergency financial aid thanks to the student and campus contribution – the famous CVEC –, food vouchers, exceptional assistance from the CROUS in addition to the extension of the rights of the fellows and the suspension of the payment of the rents managed by the CROUS. Direct aid to students is up 6.8% to cover, on the one hand, the forecast increase in the number of student fellows by 2.85 % in 2021 and by 0.21% in 2022 and, on the other hand, the increase in grants by 1%, which is higher than annual inflation. As far as indirect aid is concerned, the support focuses on the first two items of student expenditure: housing and catering. Since the start of 2020, students can have a meal in a "Reservo U" managed by a CROUS for 1 euro. As of 1 September 2021 and for one year, this social measure has been refocused to the benefit of scholarship students and non-students identified by social workers in situations of great precariousness. For other students, the price of a meal is kept at 3.30 euros despite inflation. The loss of own resources resulting from this decision for the CROUS network is estimated at around EUR 50 million in 2021 and 2022. The additional cost of this measure will be fully offset by the increase in the public service subsidy paid by the State to the network of university works. Housing is offered at a lower cost with a proactive policy of increasing the number of places available. Thus, between 2018 and 2022, an additional 36,000 seats were put into service. In addition, and for the second consecutive year, the rent increase was frozen until September 1, 2022. The mobilisation of the revenue received under the CVEC during the crisis also shows that the autonomy of management of the structures is a guarantee of reactivity. The CVEC enabled universities to provide rapid responses to the health situation of students. Its visibility and transparency in the use of funds should be improved in the coming years. In addition to these increased appropriations, the France Recovery Mission, particularly for real estate, and the fourth investment programme for the future are also available. I would like to commend the Government for its work, which, with the support of Parliament, has invested in the future and is undertaking courageous reforms to compensate for the chronic under-investment in higher education that has been going on for decades. Let us hope that this recovery will continue in the years to come. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will, as you will understand, give a favourable opinion on the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u10	Sophie Métadier, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u11	If we consider that research needs to produce knowledge to guide tomorrow's choices, then we need it so badly to meet the environmental challenges ahead. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning is particularly aware of its importance for the future. The examination of research funds is an opportunity to put in perspective the criticisms and the reality of the actions that are being carried out. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has therefore received opinions on programmes 172, 190 and 193. The programme 172 Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research is the pilot programme of French research. Its appropriations are greatly increased, in connection with the multi-annual research programming law, which is to be welcomed. A large part of these new means are accompanying the rise of the National Research Agency. The financial effort of the NRA reflects the desire to integrate research funding into a competitive logic, thanks to calls for projects. This strategy makes it possible to better target funding towards specific themes, including the environment, and to stimulate the excellence of French research. However, it has several drawbacks: it does not fund the recruitment of new researchers because the rate of coverage of calls for projects does not make it possible to finance jobs, and it leads to questions about the continuity of research on emerging topics. Care must therefore be taken to maintain the fragile balance between competitive funding and stable allocations to historical research organisations. The 190 Research in Sustainable Energy, Development and Mobility Programme is at the heart of environmental issues. At first glance, the appropriations allocated are down from 2021. However, this decline is in fact a trompe l'oeil resulting from credit movements towards the recovery plan, paid out the previous year. Again this year, the readability of the appropriations of the finance bill, particularly on the link between the appropriations of the usual programmes and those of the short-term programmes, is not at hand. Is it worth recalling that an easy reading of budgetary developments contributes to the proper information of parliamentarians? Finally, there is a relative stability in the programme 193 Space Research, although, again, there are significant reservations about the readability of the resources allocated to the National Centre for Space Studies. In order to have a comprehensive view of the amounts spent on sustainable development research, it is also necessary to analyse the future investment programme and the recovery plan. These two missions demonstrate a significant effort in sustainable development research. Many environmental-oriented calls for projects are funded by these missions, such as the €30 million Make our planet great project call or the €404.1 million low-carbon aircraft. The situation of operators following the health crisis must also be discussed quickly. In general, the Government's strong measures to extend doctoral contracts, those of the Temporary Education and Research Attachés (ATER), post-docs and CSDs and to strengthen the resilience of research organizations have helped to cushion the shock of the crisis. However, institutions with a substantial share of own resources are particularly affected by the decline in activity. So we'll have to go with them. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to research aimed at decarbonizing the construction and construction sector. This area of research is strategic for the ecological transition, with the construction sector being the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in France. Research on improving the environmental performance of the construction sector is the subject of dedicated funding within the framework of the inter-ministerial mission of Research and Higher Education (MIRES) and through the investment programmes of the future. Achievements have already been made, notably the climate chamber Sense-City of Marne-la-Vallée, funded under the PIA 4. Research in this area is also financed by tax expenditures, in this case by the research tax credit. As such, the research expenditure incurred in carrying out operations entrusted to public research organisations is eligible for the tax credit for twice the amount. This provision was removed by Article 35 of the Finance Act for 2021. Maintaining the doubling of the base is, however, particularly important in order to avoid increasing the risk of declining research investment by companies in times of health crisis. While the means to finance sustainable development research exist, they are not part of a coherent strategy adapted to the specificities of this sector. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With the appropriations of the Research and Higher Education mission showing a real ambition for French public research, I express a favourable opinion for their adoption. However, it is imperative that we ensure the sustainability of funding for sustainable development research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u12	We come to the expression of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr. Victor Habert-Dassault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u13	The research and higher education mission, with more than EUR 29 billion in appropriations, is one of the most endowed with the state budget, which can be seen as positive. Investment in research seems to be as essential as it is beneficial for a country whose primary purpose is the pursuit of excellence. However, the concerns of researchers and the Académie des sciences seem legitimate: the trajectory of French research is not up to our expectations. In terms of the volume of scientific publications, we thus occupy only the tenth place, not to mention the quality indicator where we are only in the sixteenth place. In this context, the increase in funding for this crucial sector seems to be good news. However, most of these increases in appropriations, particularly for universities, are intended to pass through calls for proposals from the National Research Agency, which is not without problems in terms of the readability of increases in appropriations for operators. In addition, the distribution of the 150 operators' credits between five thematic alliances – energy, digital, life and health science, environment, and the humanities and social sciences – is not specified. Lack of transparency does not help researchers to pursue their projects in a climate of trust. One of the advances of the law on the programming of research is the strengthening of the link between research and the enterprise, in particular by the facilities granted to public researchers and teachers-researchers to join or set up a company. However, we observe with surprise the maintenance of a dichotomy between higher education and research organisations and the absence of a link between public and private research. Decompartmentalization of research in France could contribute to its enhancement by promoting collaborative work by all forces. I also regret that the programmes are not sufficiently focused on the processing of raw materials. Of course, there are channels in the field of extended producer responsibility (REP), which have proven their usefulness for the management of waste from certain types of products and their reduction, but is this really sufficient? In the years to come, the circular economy is intended to play an increasingly important part in the need to produce better, to consume better and to pollute less. From this point of view, public and private research into the re-use of raw materials and recycling must be intensified. I am also thinking of the industry and in particular of certain sectors which have had to stop their production due to the lack of semiconductors. There is no question here of making me the advocate of "producing all ourselves" but we must not neglect research that can contribute to our economic sovereignty in the industrial sector. Even if, with the best will of the world, we cannot fight against technological dependence, it would be harmful not to take advantage of French ingenuity to train the talents that will allow raw materials – for example those contained in batteries or electronic equipment – to be recovered and reused. This seems to be consistent with the will of all of us to act for the environment. With regard to the Higher Education mission, several organizations expressed concern. Thus, the Court of Auditors confirms that funding does not meet the challenges faced by universities, namely the constant increase in the number of students, the improvement of the conditions for taking charge of student life or the acquisition of real managerial autonomy. We can also point out that the indicator measuring student success shows a three- or four-year bachelor's degree rate of 44% and a two-year master's degree rate of 59%. The indicator for the proportion of students enrolled in the first year of a bachelor's degree who had never attended an examination during the academic year was around 7.3%. The question underlying these figures concerns the orientation of new graduates. In the MIRES budget, no emphasis is placed on this aspect of a student's or future student's career. In this regard, I would like to stress the effectiveness of certain initiatives – too few – taken by large business schools from the second class. I am thinking in particular of tutoring systems, designed not only to identify good students from modest backgrounds, but also to prepare them for their future journey. In other words, it is a matter of preparing students, often from priority education areas, for inclusion in certain high-quality courses. In line with a certain republican ideal, this project could be extended to all major schools. One might also mention the value of making students discover the trades more early in order to minimise the risk of dropping out and leaving higher education without a diploma. These new forms of information and guidance could be the subject of a constructive project for the integration of young people into society. This could also help to reduce congestion in saturated fields, such as law or psychology, if students become involved with a real knowledge of the opportunities and content of training. All actors – both principals and construction managers and high school teachers – should be involved in these orientation issues. In addition, the upgrading of the vocational route addressed by vocational lycées or vocational lycées would also be a considerable asset for the integration of young people into the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u14	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u15	[[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] In this context, the Republican Group, opposed to the Government's road map for higher education and research, will vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u16	I would like to point out that the speaking time available to speakers is not just indicative: on the one hand, we have a busy programme and, on the other, it is my responsibility to ensure that the speakers have equal speaking time. Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u17	The different types of support that public authorities provide for innovation find their justification in the assumption that companies tend not to spend enough on research and development. Since knowledge is a collective good of general interest largely developed by the private sector, it should be encouraged to innovate. As such, public policies for research have four objectives: to increase private research and development capacities; increase the effort of public research in the economy; developing cooperation between public and private actors; Finally, support innovative companies. It is precisely for this reason and because research cannot be without the support of the public sector that, again this year, the Government has chosen to devote the budget of the research and higher education mission to ambitious objectives. In accordance with the Research Programming Act adopted last year, the appropriations of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation will increase by €472 million in 2022. This increase, reflecting a dynamic of exit from the crisis, but also of the rise in the power of several devices, is intended to keep our country among the great scientific nations. Compared to the previous year, an additional EUR 500 million will be allocated to research in 2022, of which EUR 400 million will be allocated to public research and university research organisations. As the attractiveness of the research profession remains one of our priorities, 92 million euros will also be spent this year on salary adjustments. Because the excellence of our national research depends not only on the public sector, but also on the private sector, the rise of the research and development activities of French companies within the national research effort continues in 2022. Let us recall here that the purpose of the Europe 2020 tax schemes for innovation, in particular the research tax credit and the innovation tax credit (IIC), is to increase the research and development effort to 3% of GDP, a goal that only Germany has achieved to date among European countries. The budget before us is intended to reach 2.4% of GDP by 2023. Furthermore, aware of the climate issues we will face in the years to come, our group wanted to act in favour of a key player in environmental research, the Paul-Émile-Victor Institute. In the service of scientific research in the polar regions, it has been recognized for many years for the excellence of its expertise. However, it must be noted that he has to deal with particularly constrained means. That is why my colleague Jimmy Pahun, of whom we are all familiar here with the commitment on climate and maritime issues, will present, alongside the other groups of the majority, an amendment to allow the creation of five posts to accompany the Institute's future structuring projects. Knowing that a national research policy cannot be effective without a dynamic and inclusive higher education, the fight against student insecurity, which the health crisis has only worsened, also remains one of our priorities. With 179 million euros in additional appropriations, the Student Life programme is not out of date for the year 2022. I would also like to point out that between 2017 and 2022, it is no less than 83000 additional places that will have been created in higher education institutions, notably in medicine, maieutics, odontology and pharmacy, thus attesting to the attractiveness of the courses offered and the increasing willingness of our students to train. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the adoption of the appropriations for the Research and Higher Education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u18	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u19	The research and higher education mission, one of the largest budgets in the state, has increased by €700 million for 2022, totalling €29.237 billion. This package must address several challenges in areas where difficulties are growing: student success and the fight against precarious situations; taking into account the institutional landscape; the continued application of the RPA, against which we voted last year because we denounced its lack of ambition. This budget is very inadequate in view of the issues at stake. Despite the increases posted, it will not effectively address problems such as the arrival of thousands of additional students, the need to adapt universities to health needs, the effects of the crisis on the lives of students and their search for jobs, or the precariousness experienced by staff and researchers in the public sector. As far as research is concerned, the increases are in line with the RPA, with the increase in funding going to the National Research Agency. As a reminder, our group voted against this bill because of its lack of ambition for French public research. All the audits of France Stratégie or the Court of Auditors show that it is inefficient to finance primarily the research of companies from public funds. We had therefore proposed a different path in order to rapidly increase the research effort to 1% of GDP. At this end of the legislature, it is interesting to sum up the declines in appropriations over the entire quinquennium. Research in the fields of sustainable energy, development and mobility loses 5% in EA authorisations, 25% in full-time equivalents and 16% in comparison with 2021; Mission appropriations for research and higher education in economic and industrial fields lose 19% in EA; space research funds are down 0.19%, while the President of the Republic has just announced his willingness to invest in the space sector – as a member of the Defence Committee, I myself am convinced of the major interest in investing in space. The Act provided for salary adjustments but, ten months after its promulgation, only 14 per cent of the decrees were issued, two of which concerned doctoral contracts. I now turn to higher education and student life programmes. While one of Ipsos' latest surveys estimates that the number of young people aged 18 to 25 reporting financial difficulties is 75 per cent, budgets are stagnating despite the increases posted. They do not allow universities to absorb the 30,000 baby boomers of the 2000s that come in addition to the current number of students. The credits allocated for the master's degrees are in decline while hundreds of students who have not been able to access these diplomas this year are in distress: it is a scandal for our youth after the two years of health crisis that she suffered. The "U-ticket at 1 euro" must be maintained and open to all our students. As the queues for the distribution of food aid grow longer, why deprive them of essential aid for their daily lives? The specific aid also stagnates compared to 2021, whereas its envelope must be extended to more students in precarious situations. As for the "60000 student housing" plan, it actually offers only 36,000 new places in social residence, of which only 10,000 are in service. University real estate needs to be subject to appropriate increases in order to adequately accommodate students who are now attending 100% face-to-face courses. Léon Blum said in 1919: "Young people are the hope, the life that comes, the sap that rises; of today's youth will depend the next fate of humanity. " Let's give young people the means to build our future. [[Elsa Faucillon and Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] As you do not, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the budget for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u20	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u21	Again this year, spending on research, higher education and student life will increase by almost EUR 700 million, for a total budget of EUR 29 billion. Since 2017, under the leadership of the Government and our majority, the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education and Research has increased by more than 2.4 billion euros, twice as much as in the previous quinquennium. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this effort, which reflects our continuing commitment to young people as student insecurity increased sharply during the crisis. In 2022, more than EUR 150 million will be invested in the upgrading of social grants and no less than EUR 50 million will be spent on the financing of 1 euro meals. The measure has been refocused around scholarship and precarious students since September 1st and we wonder if it should not be expanded, given the needs of many students. The tutoring scheme put in place in universities during the health crisis is also renewed. I welcome this because this support helps to combat situations of isolation and to reward students who are committed to helping those who need it. These additional funds will also make it possible to finance the free distribution, by the CROUS, of periodic protections to combat menstrual precariousness, a phenomenon which, according to a recent survey, would affect almost a third of students. I believe that we can welcome this beautiful progress on this issue too long underestimated and still taboo. The Action Together Group welcomes the extension of the freeze on rent increases in university residences until 1 September 2022. It is a measure of social justice that will support the 175,000 students housed by the CROUS. In this regard, Madam Minister, can you tell us what the Government's ambitions are with regard to the rehabilitation of student housing? Our group would also like to know what direction the Government intends to take in the construction of new housing. The second ambition of this budget is to help make our country an innovative nation through the development of scientific and technological research. For the second year in a row, we will implement the Research Programming Act 2021-2030. More than ever, the year 2022 looks like the year of reinvestment in research, with the desire to mobilize all the levers to enable our researchers and our infrastructures to be at the forefront in international competition. The health crisis highlighted the difficulties of French research, particularly in the field of health. Our inability to develop a covid-19 vaccine is an example. Because research is an investment that is measured over a long period of time, we have a duty to strengthen the resources we devote to it right now. It is a future bet that will feed the great ambitions of the next decade. The path set by the RPA is in the right direction. It foresees a reinvestment of EUR 25 billion over the next ten years. Rearming French research first involves strengthening the attractiveness of trades. It is no longer acceptable to see French researchers go abroad to exercise their talents. An additional €114 million will be allocated for the upgrading of the salaries of research staff in 2022. Attractiveness also depends on the quality of our large national research infrastructures. To this end, the 2022 budget will provide an additional EUR 54 million for the modernisation of research tools. France is also a polar nation, thanks in particular to its southern and Antarctic lands, and we must make polar research a priority. The Government has fulfilled its commitments in this regard. The Dumont-d'Urville base in Antarctica will receive €7 million for its renovation over the period 2022-2024. Our group will defend a joint amendment with the majority to supplement the budget of the Paul-Emile-Victor Institute by 500,000 euros and strengthen its teams to the tune of five full-time equivalents. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The latter budget marks a quinquennium that has consistently promoted research and higher education and the living conditions of students in a difficult context linked to the health crisis. As you will have understood, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u22	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u23	After my speech as draftsman, I will focus on the higher education aspect. At a time when France is emerging from an unprecedented crisis and is planning its recovery by 2030, at a time when the entire planet is facing a climate challenge that prompts us to reinvent ourselves and redefine our ways of life, France must put on an ambitious budget both for its research and for the training of its students. In this regard, I welcome the increase in the budget for this mission, part of which is in line with the Research Programming Act. Thus, I am pleased to see that the revalorisations and recruitments of both research teachers and doctoral students are under way. Our universities have suffered for too long from a lack of investment and a wage gap compared to our European neighbours. On this question of reclamation, I wonder, Madam Minister. The multi-annual research programming foresees that the new doctoral contracts will be upgraded by 30% between 2021 and 2023. I do not repeat the regret expressed last year by my group that this increase concerns only new contracts, but I would like to know more about the path taken to achieve the objectives set. In 2022, the appropriations will increase the salary of a PhD student to 1975 euros gross per month, an increase of 12% since 2020. This means that the bulk of the effort will be to be made by 2023, while we do not know if your majority will still be on those benches to meet this commitment of 30% increase yet so important. As in many other areas, it is regrettable that the objectives are only fully achieved after the elections. Last year, transfers concerning space research and dual research were made from this mission to the Recovery Plan mission for a total of 515 million euros. Unfortunately, it must be noted that in two years, only 655 million expenditure will have been spent on this sector, which is essential for the future, a loss of almost €380 million. I hope that these funds will be fully restored when the Recovery Plan mission is terminated. With regard to student life, I would like to welcome the increase in scholarships, the installation of distributors of free sanitary protections or the maintenance of 1 euro meals in university restaurants. We wonder, however, whether they are now reserved for scholarship holders. All associations agree that the precariousness of students has never been greater. The cost of living has increased and, between the difficulty of finding affordable housing and the rise in energy prices, it is on their food that they are forced to save. These difficulties are not limited to fellows; Many of them, just above the scales, are unable to make it. Although you have planned to open up the benefit of these meals to 1 euro to non-students who would report a great precariousness, it would appear more effective as an emergency measure to keep meals at 1 euro for all in order to ensure a minimum of well-being for students. Moreover, although this is not part of the national budget, I regret that this year the Erasmus funds do not allow all students who wish to study abroad to study while the health crisis has already prevented many departures. I will end by referring to pediatric cancers, a subject that is very close to our President Jean-Christophe Lagarde as well as to my colleague Béatrice Descamps. I am aware that a first gesture had been made in 2018 but we need to go further, and I think we will be a lot to ask you. Further on, as too many children still die each year of these diseases. Further on, as private laboratories turn away from such an important issue, it is the honour of a country and its public research to carry the torch of hope for thousands of children who fight the disease every day. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] IDU and independent Members welcome the efforts made but will remain attentive to the answers you will give to their questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u24	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u25	What is the state of research in France in 2021? A concrete example is worth a thousand developments. In the midst of an epidemic of covid-19, France embarked on the race for vaccines with good hopes of success. But, quickly, the announcement by the Institut Pasteur of the abandonment of its main project then recently the cessation of Sanofi's work on his messenger RNA vaccine appeared as an umpteenth sign of the retreat of French research on the world stage. At the same time, Cuba has succeeded in developing five vaccines, three of which are being validated and are already widely used. Of course, these failures cannot be attributed solely to the capacity, particularly financial, of French research, but the idea of a French decline in this field is a legitimate concern as the stalling of our country has accelerated in recent years. It is still too early to know the effect of the programming law passed last November, I grant it to you. At the time of its review, our group had deplored the slow and therefore unambitious increase in the number of decrees issued by the Government. The result is delays in implementation, including on expected issues such as the new compensation system for teachers-researchers. The budget of the Research and Higher Education mission is therefore unsurprisingly in line with the programming law. We continue to regret the choice of favouring calls for projects at the expense of sustainable funding and long-term research. It is the National Research Agency that will de facto concentrate the main appropriations. Above all, I want to take advantage of the review of this mission to express our concern for the students. With regard to access to education, we regret that the funding of places for new students does not cover the increase in the number of students. By the beginning of 2021, students would be around 2.8 million, 38,000 more than at the start of 2020. But the average expenditure per student has been declining steadily since 2011, date, I grant you, where you were not yet in power. Successive cohorts of students experience it very badly. Although the Ministry's allocation to universities is on the increase, insufficient efforts are being made to meet the needs, such as supervision, premises, administration and student follow-up. Also insufficient to allow teachers to continue their research activities and to respond to multiple calls for projects. In addition, the recruitment of permanent research teachers has been stagnating for the past 10 years and the number of positions of lecturers open to candidates has been divided by more than half. It is obviously not the new access routes proposed in the RPA that will respond to the precariousness of the trades. I would like to point out, Madam Minister, the situation of contract teachers, particularly those in architectural schools. Graduates at the baccalaureate level +5, they can expect a half-time at the SMIC, without upgrading after ten years. This is where we are today. The other concern, with regard to students, is of course poverty and insecurity, reinforced by the health crisis. Years of study are a pivotal moment. They should be a time of learning, encounters, intellectual and social development. That is what we have known, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. But we have not experienced the period of anxiety and survival in which our children, our young people, our students are now living. Our group welcomes the increase in student life credits and the renewal of certain measures taken during the health crisis, such as the freezing of rents or tuition fees. This, however, cannot be enough. The increase in the cost of student living is there, and it exists and reaches 6% in the fall of 2022, driven by the increase in rents, internet access rates, food and energy. The long queues during the distribution of food aid are unworthy of our country. I went there and I was ashamed that we were there in 2021, in France. In many academic cities, students find it difficult to stay in their homes. But only 40,000 student housing units were built, far from the 60000 promised over the duration of the quinquennium. These same students find it difficult to feed themselves. As I said, it was premature to come back to the extension to non-students of the 1 euro university restaurant ticket, Madam Minister. And if scholarships are raised by 1% this year, we regret the lack of reform on this subject, which was promised for the beginning of 2021, while 74% of students still do not have the opportunity to obtain a scholarship. This abandonment is not the only one: the food check could have benefited young people. This proposal of the Citizen's Climate Convention, adopted by the Government, seems simply buried. What is the status of the commitment income announced in July by the President, self-proclaimed President of Youth? From procrastination to contradictory announcements, all this is slow to materialize and should probably be born in a version that will exclude students, at least. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will not support the appropriations for this mission. Indeed, we are not convinced by their ability to compensate for under-investment in research and higher education, and to respond to the excessive precariousness of our students, who, as has been said, are our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u26	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u27	The budget of the ESR – higher education and research – which amounts to 29.24 billion euros, illustrates again this year the liberal vision of the Government, modelled on the Anglo-Saxon model. At the press conference in the fall of 2021, you acknowledged, Madam Minister, that research organizations have been suffering from chronic underfunding for decades. If we agree with that, we do not agree with your answer. Indeed, in the momentum of the RPA, the increase in the research budget benefits the RDA and call-for-project funding, to the detriment of recurrent funding. The appropriations for Action 2 of the National Research Agency of the programme 172 Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research thus increase by 17.44%, for an amount of EUR 884.35 million. However, not content with limiting research topics, increasing competition among researchers and being time-consuming, this method of redistributing public research endowments by call for proposals is highly unequal. Already, 80% of the competitive research resources, such as the ANR projects, are allocated to only 20 higher education institutions, of the 100 that exist. In 2022, the CIR will represent no less than EUR 7.43 billion, or about a quarter of the ESR budget. This opaque tax niche is granted without consideration, on simple declaration. Sanofi, for example, which benefits from it, invested €610 million in January in a new vaccine production plant, and then announced last September that the development of its covid vaccine will be halted. "There is no magic money," said Emmanuel Macron; In reality, it depends on who. By ideology, this budget also reflects a desire to gradually end the status of civil servant. The CNRS thus saw the number of its jobs under ceiling decrease by 128 FTEs worked and its non-ceiling jobs increase by 995 FTEs, leaving the field open to CDIs of scientific missions, junior professor chairs and doctoral contracts in private law. Overall, the recruitment of full-time research teachers has decreased by almost half over the past 10 years. Contractors now occupy 25 per cent of positions and 6 million extra hours are performed by teachers, representing 30,000 incumbents. The disengagement of the State which is at work in the field of research is, unfortunately, found in higher education. Despite the 1.48 % increase in the appropriations of the 150 Higher education and university research programme, dedicated to the allocation of universities and now reaching EUR 14.21 billion, you are in fact continuing to sub-donate universities by not taking into account their real needs or the increase in the number of students. The Conference of University Presidents (CPU) confirms this sub-domination: "The drop in student endowment is constant and gives no room for manoeuvre to the institutions. » Your budgetary choices, Minister, strengthen selection and social determinism. Between the implementation of a local baccalaureate, the Parcoursup portal, the selection in master and the lack of places, it is without surprise the most precarious ones that find themselves mostly on the tile. While there are 19.2 per cent of workers in the labour force, their children account for only 12.3 per cent of bachelor's students, 8.5 per cent of master's students and 5.9 per cent of doctoral students. As for managers, who make up 20.4 per cent of the working population, their children account for 29.3 per cent of bachelor's students, 40.2 per cent of master's students and 40.3 per cent of doctoral students. On the other hand, the precariousness already suffered by students prior to the health crisis has increased considerably: abandonment of care, difficulties in feeding, in housing, in paying for the expenses of the daily life and obviously to study calmly. In response to their distress, this PLF marks the end of exceptional aids such as 1 euro meal for all students. Stock exchanges are only revalued at 1%, while inflation is 1.8%. The Government is still not investing heavily in the CROUS and the youth autonomy allowance is not on the agenda. It's a shame, because it would make it possible to get out of charity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In short, the research and higher education mission's appropriations acknowledge the commodification of knowledge and the priority given to employability, and aggravate social inequalities. The Government refuses to assume its public service tasks and renounces the principle of universal and emancipatory knowledge. That is why we will vote against the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u28	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor. Strongly tested by the health crisis, both psychologically and academicly, students are now facing an economic and social crisis that considerably darkens their horizons. In such a situation, I consider that the Government wishes to do so: a few measures by this and two or three other measures make it possible to communicate, of course, but not to contain the endless lines of students in front of the food banks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u29	The budget we are looking at today is a perfect illustration of this. Presented as an increase, it is actually stagnant. Higher education and university research programme appropriations increased from 13.9 billion to 14.16 billion euros, which corresponds exactly to the application of inflation on this line. Of the programmes 172 Multi-discipline scientific and technological research and 193 space research, there is an increase in the budget slightly above inflation. But this increase is dedicated to the private sector, with public service spending increasing at the same rate as inflation. This budget therefore does not allow the university to absorb the 30,000 students born during the baby boom of the two thousand years, who join the workforce already present. According to the Government's forecasts, the school year 2021-2022 is the thirteenth consecutive increase in enrolment. This trend is expected to continue at least until the end of the decade, but the means do not follow, in particular recruitment. Less than 2000 teaching-researcher positions were opened this year, compared to more than 3500 ten years ago, and of the €472 million from the Research Programming Act, 114 million would be allocated to improve the remuneration of research staff. This envelope is too thin to recruit lecturers and research fellows up to at least two SMICs. Worse still, it does not reflect the demand, albeit vain but persistent, of teachers mobilized against the LPR to recover the positions of missing incumbents to operate the public research and teaching service. In addition, EUR 179 million will go towards improving the living conditions of students. This amount is derisory in the face of increasing student insecurity. It should be noted that today, 42% of students give up care for themselves because of lack of resources. We are very far from the contingency plan needed to deal with the situation, which would require EUR 1.5 billion. And what about the 1 euro menu for all students? We do not explain that you did not maintain it. What about a significant increase in student scholarships? [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] This lack of resources undermines the right to higher education. In an opinion of 6 June 2021, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights states that "the general lack of resources for higher education calls into question respect for fundamental rights". Inequality of access to information, differential treatment, lack of transparency in guidance... These obstacles to rights are the consequences of an increasing shortage of resources, and this is the result of political choices. The commodification of institutions and their competition are the result of an ultraliberal vision of the university. Even university presidents have been saying for nearly ten years now that the state's allocation to cover human resource costs is not enough. However, presenting an ambitious budget for higher education is possible! In summary, this budget is the one that accompanies Parcoursup; It reflects your choice, Minister, to speed up selection rather than seek to enforce the right of everyone to study. This budget is also that of the 22,000 bachelors who have not found a place in higher education this year – far from the number of 239 announced in your communication documents, which hides all those who, for lack of proposals, wanted to spend a year being useful outside of higher education. This budget is also the one that favours calls for projects rather than core funding in laboratories, while laboratories need core budgets to operate and avoid spending too much time responding to calls for projects. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] All of this, in our view, is sufficient reason not to vote this budget, and even to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u30	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u31	With this mission, we accompany our students and support research. With this mission, it is 700 million euros more that we allocate to the budget of higher education and research in 2022. The funds we are discussing today show that we are able to hear the needs of our young people and to respond to the challenges of the coming decades, because they are our future. This is also the Republic: to accompany those who will make France of tomorrow. An innovative France first, because the crisis has shown us how valuable and even vital support for research is, but also how much our health, our economy and our society depend on it. It had been 15 years since any government had had the audacity to pass a research programming law. The Government has sent a strong signal with an additional €500 million for the 2022 budget, but also and above all with the Research Programming Act, which provides for the deployment of €25 billion over the next ten years. This unprecedented effort is also an opportunity to value our teachers-researchers, our PhD students and all the actors in research and innovation: this is how a further increase of 1000 euros, starting in January 2022, of the research and higher education bonus, was voted. Tomorrow's France is also a conscious and attentive France, because the crisis has confronted young people with unprecedented difficulties in their scale, linked to insecurity and isolation. We are facing these difficulties, with the freezing of registration fees, the freezing of rents in student residence until September 1, 2022, which was recalled earlier, or the 1% increase in scholarships, which is a measure of social justice. We know that youth is attached to this value, but it is not the only one. It is for this reason that an additional EUR 179 million is allocated to the financing of student life in this draft budget for 2022 and is intended to ensure the continuity of the measures I have just mentioned. In order to cope with the increase in the number of students, we will have opened between 2017 and 20,283,000 new places in our universities, including several thousand Masters, in order to remedy the difficulties of access to the second cycle that some graduates encounter. Our universities are also places for learning, discovery, training and research, and a forum for conviviality, exchange and sharing. In addition to the teaching they provide, they speed up the daily lives of students through sport, culture, access to housing and catering. Hence another of our flagship measures: the 1 euro meal, which has been applied to 16 million meals and whose present text provides for the retention for scholarship holders, as well as for students in precarious situations. Indeed, improving the living conditions of students is not only a guarantee of their success, but also of their subsequent social and economic integration. That is not all: the crisis has weakened many of them psychologically, so we were able to respond immediately to this emergency by allowing all those who felt the need to do so to consult a psychologist free of charge. The Psych Student Health system has given rise to 69000 consultations: this is also the case, taking care of young people. Finally, in order to combat menstrual precariousness, we have gradually installed in universities 1500 distributors of periodic protections, under the unprecedented decision to support students in the face of the need, every month, for a significant expenditure. Ensuring that women study in the best possible conditions amounts to working towards equality. In addition, we have chosen to accelerate the digital transformation of academic institutions, which has therefore been the subject of an investment of 160 million euros, which is crucial given the time in which we live. All these measures have also received significant funding under the France Recovery Plan, which devotes $7.8 billion to research and higher education. The objective is clear: to make youth, training, transmission, research and innovation a broad pillar of our public policies in order to structure the present and prepare for the future. Madam Minister – dear Frédérique – you were able to release nearly 700000 euros in September for the creation of a university health service on the Avignon campus: I would like to thank you once again for your unwavering investment in this facility, thanks to which students will benefit from adapted care offers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u32	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jimmy Pahun also applauds]] I hope I have encouraged you by my remarks to adopt the credits for this mission, which are in favour of our students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u34	It's not because she says something that's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u35	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u36	It is well known that a budget is first and foremost an expression of political will:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u38	...that of the President of the Republic, of the Government, of the presidential majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u39	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u40	I intend to regret the decrease in the number of incumbents, the decrease in the number of research posts; I intend to praise the investment to prepare for the future, or to deplore the state of university buildings. What a pity that those who engage in these complaints did not find the facts earlier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u41	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u42	You're not gonna get away with this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u43	We were already talking to Mr. Macron ten years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u44	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] ...that they did not act when their political family exercised power! What a pride for us, on the contrary, to have done it! This fifth budget for higher education, research and innovation bears the seal of our unwavering commitment to an area too often abandoned before 2017. For twenty years, we have waited for a law of research programming...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u47	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] ... by virtue of which our country would have devoted 3% of its GDP to it. We will have passed this law! The lack of willingness to finance research, higher education, has placed a mortgage on the future that we have been trying to raise over the past five years. Since 2017, MIRES has seen an increase of €2.4 billion, twice as much in five years as in the previous ten years, between 2007 and 2017. These are major changes for higher education and research; It is an unprecedented support, never seen, to students facing the crisis. For the past five years, I repeat, the Government's commitment to the future has been reflected in the finance bill every year. Again this year, my department has a strengthened budget: $24.8 billion out of the 29.2 billion mission, a figure never before reached. For the year 2022, this massive support translates into an increase of 717 million and 650 jobs compared to the budget for 2021. Once again, a government had never raised its ambitions on this matter to such a level! This draft budget is primarily aimed at the rearmament of French research. The Research Programming Act of 24 December 2020 foresees a massive and progressive reinvestment of 25 billion over the next ten years. By 2021, the first march had allowed us to increase the research budget by 400 million. In 2022, we will pass a second one: an additional 472 million. The first priority is to create a new generation of scientists and to strengthen the attractiveness of the professions: to this end, an additional 114 million will increase the purchasing power of researchers, engineers and technicians, civil servants and contractors, both in organizations and in universities. This is in addition to the 92 million that have already been paid as compensation last year. In addition, 16 million will be spent on encouraging students to undertake a thesis, by increasing the number of doctoral scholarships and increasing the remuneration of doctoral students. Second priority: re-arming the National Research Agency, as it would be high time for it to be able to meet the best international standards and finally to meet its foreign counterparts. An additional 131 million have been earmarked for this purpose; the combined effects of the Research Programming Act and the Recovery Plan will increase the RNA selection rate to 23%, well above the 16% of 2020 and a fortiori of the 10% of the 2010s. All of this will help to strengthen the core funding of our laboratories. Indeed, the redefinition of the Precipitate of the ANR will bring back to the latter 73 million which, together with the 127 million increase in the budget of universities and research organisations, will allow to continue the recruitments and to increase by 15% – our target being 25% by 2023 – the basic endowments of laboratories. Infrastructure, essential to French research, will receive an additional $202,254 million. I would also like to welcome the work of parliamentary co-construction, which has enabled us to take better account of our polar research infrastructures in committee and in the preparatory work – I am thinking of the IPEV, which will be the subject of several amendments earlier. The second major axis of the draft budget for 2022 is higher education, which, not counting the 138 million appropriations opened by the law of programming of research, receives this year 66 million more: proof of an execution with the euro near the Student plan, whose funding had been adopted here in 2017. Actions to promote student success will be consolidated; With the additional resources provided by France's relaunch, we will continue to apply the law on the guidance and success of students (ORE), as well as the "equal opportunities" plan, in order to promote this success in the various aspects that it may have. In addition, we will continue the reform of health studies – in the event that some do not understand it, it is our majority who, as early as 2019, removed the numerus clausus and ended the waste resulting from the first year of common health studies (CAPES). It is planned to create 2663 places: never such an increase had been decided for fifty years. This budget proposal also reflects the Government's unwavering commitment to young people, which I take this opportunity to commend for the courage and determination in the face of the health crisis. Not later than last week, the Prime Minister announced that the inflation allowance would apply to students: more than 1.7 million of them will be eligible for it. In 2022, an additional 179 million will be spent on improving their living conditions and accompaniment to their success, 151 million on social grants, which will increase both in value and in number. Since 2019, this scheme has experienced three consecutive revalorisations: again, I invite you to look for a precedent within the financial laws. We are continuing the fight against the precariousness of students: thanks to the 49 million earmarked for this purpose, the fellows, but also the non-students who are in need, will continue to benefit from meals at 1 euro. Under this scheme, 14.4 million meals have already been served between January and June, 2 million in September alone. In addition, as food insecurity does not have to make students forget their menstrual precariousness, 8 million will allow them to continue to install distributors of free periodic protections. Finally, the pedagogical accompaniment must go hand in hand with psychological accompaniment, the device which, since March, allowed more than 10,000 students to consult for free nearly 1,700 psychologists will be extended in 2022. In addition, these financings are reinforced by those of France Recovery and France 2030. The recovery plan brings us $7.8 billion, which will allow us to finance the reception of young people and their training in the professions of the future, the thermal renovation of university buildings – 1.3 billion, a doubling in two years of State-region plan contracts – or the preservation of professional skills in research and development. In its continuation, the President of the Republic announced an ambitious investment plan, France 2030, with 30 billion, in which the world of research and higher education occupies a central place: this is again a question of training the talents of tomorrow in the fields and professions of the future, but also of better care by financing research in the field of health. Exploration of space and the seabed will also be a priority, so that France can live up to the great challenges of our time. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you see, ladies and gentlemen, this finance bill must allow us to turn our country resolutely towards the future: it contains very concrete provisions for student life, for life in laboratories, for the salaries of researchers and teachers-researchers, technicians, administrative staff; the whole after years of budgetary freeze. That is why I encourage you, as you imagine, to adopt the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u48	We only have one question this afternoon. Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u49	Madam Minister, last March, I asked you about the situation at the University of Tours after being questioned by its president about the lack of resources that she was suffering from. I referred then to the low amount per student of the public service subsidy. I know that exchanges have taken place since then between the representatives of the University of Tours and the members of your cabinet and that grants for public service charges have been awarded to French universities, in particular to the University of Tours, which has received EUR 1.5 million in this capacity. I wanted to thank you for that. I would like you to clarify a few points about these subsidies. What is the framework for these new endowments? When will they be paid? Will these subsidies be sustainable? While the Research Programming Act provides for a real upgrading and overhaul of the compensation grid, concerns are expressed about these public service subsidies and questions are emerging about the ability of universities to cope with the upcoming increase in their spending. Finally, I would like to recall that universities have mobilized in this new year to help students in precarious situations. At the University of Orléans, for example, an individual student support desk has made it possible to centralize existing arrangements and each student has been able to meet with a dedicated contact person. At the University of Tours, a budget was opened for students in precarious situations and distributors of free periodic protections were set up. Could you remind us, Madam Minister, what budgetary means the state intends to deploy to strengthen the accompaniment of students in great precariousness?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u50	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u51	The grant from higher education institutions has increased by €800 million since 2017, an average increase of 6%. By adding the PLF credits for 2022, if you vote, the increase will be EUR 1 billion on the 150 Higher Education and University Research programme. These allocations are mainly of perennial appropriations: this is true of the creation of places as well as the financing of additional places in medicine, maieutics, speech and pharmacy, as well as of the majority of the provisions of the RPA. On the other hand, some of the measures decided in the framework of the strategic management dialogues are ad hoc, as they are to finance projects, purchases and adjustments. Specific accompanying measures for certain institutions taken in this framework of the strategic management dialogues may be sustainable. This is the case for the University of Tours, which has an additional long-term support of around 1 million euros. I should like to recall that, over the five-year period, this university's allocation has been increased by EUR 9.5 million per annum, thanks to its public service subsidy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned the assistance provided by the institutions to students in precarious situations. Some parliamentarians question the usefulness of student and campus contributions: you have just demonstrated their interest. I am convinced, as this majority is, that it is the institution that created this contribution by passing the Student Orientation and Success Act, that it is the institutions that know best how to use student supports to improve their well-being and campus life. This year 165 million euros are spent on student life, health, culture, sport, of which about 1.5 million euros for the University of Tours. This is one of the uses that can be made of the CECV.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u52	I call the funds of the Research and Higher Education mission, which are listed in state B. On Amendment No 1492, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1564.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the law of 23 February 2021 authorized the Government to transpose by order into our national law the global anti-doping code, the importance of which can be measured by everyone, particularly in view of the Olympic Games in Paris 2024. This order provides for the attachment to the Paris-Saclay University of the Anti-Doping Laboratory, which is currently part of the French Anti-Doping Agency, in order to guarantee the conditions of independence and autonomy necessary for its operation. Significant work has been done by both the university, the Agency and the laboratory itself to carry out this operation and to enable it to be operational as of 1 January 2022, the date on which this connection is to take effect. The Government proposes that you translate this transfer into the finance law into a plethora of the 150 programme to the tune of €3.1 million, which comes from the mission of Sport, Youth and Associative Life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u54	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u55	This is a favourable opinion, both on the substance, with regard to the importance of the subject, as the Minister has just emphasized, and on the form since this transfer of appropriations from the Sport mission to the Research and Higher Education mission has no overall budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u56	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1492.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u57	This amendment, which deals with the creation of posts in schools of architecture, owes a great deal to the work we have done with the Ministry of Culture and with Mrs Dominique David here, whose commitment on this subject I would like to welcome. As you know, between 2016 and 2017 the creation of posts in the National Higher Schools of Architecture (ENSA) experienced a dynamic of magnitude and fully shared between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. After a period of evaluation, following the entry into force of the reform in 2018, our two departments had wished to define a new objective of job creation in accordance with budgetary constraints. As a result, ten additional positions will be created in 2022, also divided between our two departments, to meet the objectives of developing research within the NSAs. In order to translate this commitment and support the development of research within the schools of architecture, we ask you by this amendment to transfer €435,000, or five full-time equivalents outside Title 2, from Action 01 of the 150 Higher Training and University Research Programme to Programme 224 Support to the policies of the Ministry of Culture. A mirror amendment will be considered when examining the appropriations for the Culture mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u59	I would like to express an opinion in favour of this amendment, which has not been studied by the committee, thanking MP Dominique David for alerting both the Government and our committee on this important subject for the ENSAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u60	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u61	I would really like to thank you, Madam Minister, for this amendment, which, as you said, was the fruit of several months of work with your department and the Ministry of Culture. It enables us to fulfil the commitments made in the context of the 2016 reform of the national architecture schools in favour of the development of research within these institutions. This majority is well aware that keeping commitments is still politically strong, even if they have not been made by us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u62	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u63	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Developing research in architecture makes sense in the face of the challenges facing us, for example to preserve climate and ecological balances, to accompany territorial transformation or to strengthen social cohesion. It is on these subjects that teachers-researchers in architecture work within the ENSA of Bordeaux, in my constituency. Their research focuses, for example, on wood construction, a sustainable and local resource, and it is in Bordeaux that the largest wooden housing building in France, a tower of more than 50 metres, will be inaugurated next May. This is just one example, from technical innovation to basic research. I therefore encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this amendment and I am obviously withdrawing my amendment No 1355.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u64	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u65	In the general discussion, I drew your attention, Madam Minister, to the plight of the precarious teachers in the schools of architecture and it does not seem to me that you have answered me extremely clearly. They are very often hired part-time, with very precarious contracts, paid to the SMIC and without career prospects. Will this amendment help to remedy this situation, or is it only aimed at strengthening extremely specific research, such as the one on wood construction, mentioned by our colleague, which, of course, is absolutely necessary to strengthen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u66	I put to the vote Amendment No 1492.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u67	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 34 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u68	Mrs Dominique David therefore withdrew Amendment No 1355.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u69	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1487.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u70	By this appeal amendment, we propose that the National Research Agency's funds be redistributed to the research teams in the form of recurrent endowments. This is not to surprise you: you are all aware of our position on the ANR and above all on call-for-project operations, which organizes an excessive competition between institutions and between researchers. Since this operation was introduced, it has only increased the disparities between, on the one hand, institutions and research units of excellence that win calls for projects and receive funding, and, on the other hand, second-class institutions that do not obtain them. For these reasons, and for the reasons I outlined in my opening statement, we ask you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u71	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u72	Call-for-project funding is absolutely not a substitute for recurrent funding: it complements traditional public research funding in the form of payments to research organisations. It must be noted that French expenditure on call-for-project research falls far short of that of our European neighbours. The German research agency, for example, spends EUR 2 billion each year. With this in mind, the Research Programming Act provides for a threefold increase in the ANR's commitment resources by 2027, from about EUR 500 million to EUR 1.5 billion, which has resulted in an increase of EUR 158 million since 2021. Very concretely, the aim is to raise the rate of success – it will reach 23% by the end of 2021, with the aim of bringing it to more than 25% in the medium term in order to retain more quality projects – to increase the average amounts financed by projects, which are still too low, and finally to increase the precipit, that is to say, the sums paid to institutions whose researchers obtain funding from the ANR – this famous precipit would increase from 19% to 40%. This amendment has not been discussed in the Committee on Finance, but in my personal capacity I am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u73	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u74	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u75	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u76	I support Mrs Ressiguier's amendment on a subject which we have had several times the opportunity to raise, particularly during the examination of the draft RPA. I would remind you that the search existed before the ANR, which the group of France is proposing to delete. At least it can be recognized that today, call-for-project funding is far from being marginal: it is now part of the ordinary functioning of research. You claim that it is a complementary source of funding, while ordinary research funding is now divided between core funding and the call for projects. [[Minister shakes her head in sign of denial]] Some laboratories are obliged to go through calls for projects in order to be able to operate because basic funding is not enough, especially in the field of the humanities – it has happened in some labs that it does not even allow to buy a plane ticket to go to a country that is the subject of a researcher's study. You can always make a sign that no, Madam Minister, but that's what we're told; These are documented facts. It is this imbalance that we denounce and that we want to correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u77	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u78	In addition to being time-consuming and unequal, the RNA limits research themes – this is a major concern for the scientific community. In this respect, we have a strong ideological disagreement: you want to move towards the Anglo-Saxon model, but we do not think it is desirable for research, particularly public research. Since you are quoting Germany – each chooses the examples that arrange it... – I hope that you will be in favour of the amendment that we will defend further, aimed at recruiting social workers: in this area, Germany is doing much better than France. You are proud to announce that, soon, 23% of calls for projects will be accepted. Do you measure how ridiculous this goal is? You assume to leave more than three quarters of the project promoters on the side of the road! Why refuse to rebalance the situation in favour of public research – especially fundamental – and why not go back to recurring appropriations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u79	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 1444.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u80	We are challenging the Government's choice to fund research through calls for projects. The Socialist and Related Group's amendment is therefore intended to cancel the EUR 131 million increase in ANR's appropriations to allocate this amount to public bodies. Hearings have shown this: the current system of funding leads to disparities between institutions and devotes research at two speeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u82	As with the previous amendment, it is unfavourable. I do not see the interest of any group in breaking the momentum of the National Research Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u83	This is a profound ideological disagreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u84	Agencies are suspicious... it always allows you to pass under radars.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u86	Unfavorable opinion. Once again, let us be careful not to oppose the different sources of funding. By way of illustration, a young team leader also needs funding that will enable him to gain his autonomy; In particular, they can be obtained from the ANR. We have also re-established the so-called white NRA programmes, which allow funding to be sought on all research topics, in particular basic research. Of the additional EUR 131 million allocated to the ANR budget in 2022, 73 million will abound the precipitate. This introduces a fundamental difference with previous practice: now, when a team wins, its laboratory and establishment also win. It is a way to support dynamic entities, beyond the winning teams alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u87	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1488.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u88	In March 2017, Mr.Macron said: "I lived, when I was a teenager, with about 1000 euros a month. [...] I know what it's like to close a difficult end of months. » A thousand euros for a teenager – the blessed! With this amendment, we are more interested in the young students, who came out of adolescence, and who would like to have them, those 1000 euros! This is what we propose: to grant students a guarantee of autonomy of 1063 euros. I doubt that President Macron, when he was a teenager, has increased the queues of young people seeking food aid. Nor was it one of the 46% of students forced to work to finance their studies, occupying exhausting and underpaid part-time jobs – as many hours spent on their studies. How to feed? This is the first concern of these young people, even beyond employment. With 1000 euros when he was a teenager, Mr. Macron knew what it was like to bleed! For our part, we propose to allocate these 1000 euros to students. I hope I convinced you with Mr. Macron's example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u90	The health crisis has severely affected a number of students – not all – and the Government has deployed massive responses to accompany fellows and non-students: grants on social criteria have been upgraded and extended to more beneficiaries; 1 euro meals were offered to all students at first, and now target the fellows – we will come back; the number of places in student housing has been increased; periodic protections were distributed free of charge; Specific aid budgets – one-off or perennial, open to some students who are not eligible for grants on social criteria – have increased considerably; the State-guaranteed student loan has been strengthened, without resource conditions or family quotients. In a constrained budgetary context, €2.5 billion of direct aid is included in the appropriations for 2022, not to mention indirect aid. In addition to this, there are other measures in the recovery plan, such as the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan and the extension of the youth guarantee, programmes of an unprecedented scale that have made it possible to finance a record number of apprenticeship contracts. These contracts benefit higher education and students; They are levers of professional integration for our young people, whose excellent results we already measure. So my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u92	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u93	What about the students standing in line for food aid? There's really something to get angry about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u94	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u95	This amendment, however, is nothing quite revolutionary! Students starve and are increasingly sleeping in their cars – when they are lucky enough to have one. Before the health crisis, 46% of them had to work to finance their studies; It has become very difficult to find small jobs – even more so since the health crisis. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Again, it is an ideological choice: in which society do we want to live? How do we view youth? It is beautiful to affirm, in the speeches, « bravo les jeunes, courage les jeunes ; We're going to make it; We are counting on you; you are the living force of the country", but let us stop turning our eyes away! We have all seen absolutely indecent images, and we continue to see them. Rather than organizing charity – I am not for ladies bosses – we want young people to live with dignity – not that they live as millionaires, but that they can eat, study and buy books. That is neither more nor less what we are proposing with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u96	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u97	By treating young people in this way, especially students, you register them from the outset in a logic of assistance. This is not what they ask: young people want to be autonomous, to study and to live normally. Think that they can no longer find small jobs, Mr. Special Rapporteur: they can no longer even sell their labour force to pursue their studies with dignity. The "whatever it costs" has benefited large societies and many people, but not young people! To the youth, it cost her! It's left traces on a whole generation. This amendment would allow you to give a different answer. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but you could have re-evaluated it in the light of inflation: Mr Macron's 1000 euros for a teenager would be almost 1,800 euros today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u98	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u99	[[Smile]] We lacked ambition, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u100	With this money, students would have access to leisure, culture, sport, autonomy, maintain relationships... In other words, they would live together their studies and their youth. You owe them that; We owe them that, because they are our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u101	Amendment No 1438 by Mrs Josette Manin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u102	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1475.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u103	The resource ceilings for higher education scholarships, and the amounts corresponding to each level, shall be fixed each year by decree. The reference amounts are national; They therefore do not include any specific indexation for New Caledonia, which, however, has economic specificities linked to the cost of living and the level of income. Thus, only 27% of Caledonian students meet the eligibility criteria for State grants awarded on social criteria, compared with 38% in Hexagon and 63% in the rest of the overseas countries. The inadequacy of the eligibility ceilings and the level of grants is a real obstacle to access to higher education in this territory. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] To remedy such a difference in treatment, this amendment aims to transfer €2.6 million of payment appropriations and commitment authorisations, from action 14 Real estate of the 150 Higher education and university research programme, to action 01 Direct grants from the 231 Student Life programme. This would be the cost of awarding scholarships to Caledonian students who are currently applying for them, but who are denied them because of the inadequacy of the eligibility limits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u105	We have already considered this amendment last year. Since the system of grants on social criteria was identical throughout the national territory, it took less account of the situation of students from so-called tense territories such as New Caledonia, but also, for example, Île-de-France. In the current state of the system, the increase of the grants of 2.6 million euros that you propose would be distributed among all student fellows; Each would then receive 4 euros per year. As drafted, this amendment would therefore not be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u106	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u107	In addition, some 20 territorial arrangements are administered by the provinces in New Caledonia to support scholarship holders, often in the same area as social grants. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u109	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u110	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u111	I don't understand: is it because the sum is modest that your opinion is unfavourable? You could table a sub-amendment to increase the envelope and allow students access to scholarships on social criteria. It is true that I defended this amendment last year for my colleague Philippe Gomès. He referred specifically to New Caledonia, but Caledonian students were not the only ones concerned. If your refusal is due to the too modest amount that is proposed, you are free to make a more interesting proposal for these students!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u112	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u113	I would like to support our colleague's amendment. Mr. Special Rapporteur, it is a mistake to compare French New Caledonia with Ile-de-France: New Caledonia has specific features, and our country made a commitment, more than twenty years ago, to strengthen its development prospects and to create the conditions for the emergence of a Caledonian elite, thanks to the formation of cadres – let us recall that the first plan following the Matignon Accords was entitled "400 cadres". Therefore, France's words are committed and there must be a political perspective for the development of the territory; the requests of the Caledonian elected representatives – in this case, of our colleague Philippe Gomès – must be heard. You can't say it's impossible. There was an urgent need for New Caledonia to train enough young professionals to take charge of the life of that territory. Do not pretend that Caledonian students are in the same situation as those in Île-de-France; I am sorry to tell you, Mr Special Rapporteur, with all the esteem I have for you: this has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u114	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 1452.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u115	It aims to take account of the increase in the number of students in higher education and proposes to create an additional 60000 places, at a rate of 6000 euros per student.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u117	Unfavorable opinion. Your argument is based on a global demographic of students, with projections up to 2029. Between 2017 and 2021, public higher education institutions welcomed an additional 600,000 students and 83,000 places were created during this quinquennium. As a result, the Government's response to demographic change has been strong, and every year since 2018, the Student Plan credits are allocated half of what is needed to increase reception capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u118	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1491.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u119	With this amendment, we want to allocate more resources to master level courses in order to open up places for students who have obtained a bachelor's degree and whose right to continue their studies must no longer be violated. The lack of places is becoming more and more acute; each year we see student unions organize – in Montpellier, but not only, alas; students start hunger strikes, and others directly address teachers because the rectorate does not adequately meet their needs. What vision and message do we send to youth? It's always the same problem. Instead of making it easier for them, instead of breaking social determinism, the system spreads the most precarious or foreign students. For, yes, when one observes the sociology of students refused entry into the master's degree, one finds that 95% of them are very precarious and that there are a lot of foreign students. It's amazing! This is a political choice: you organize the selection at the university. It's not ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u120	Aren't universities autonomous?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u121	The budget review gives us the opportunity to correct this choice and to send students another message: we will make education a priority, we will open up the budget a little bit, we will give you an effective right to pursue studies, which is not currently the case. Our amendment therefore aims, no more or less, to allow students who wish to continue their studies in the field of their choice and not in a course followed by default.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u123	Unfavorable opinion. There are currently 170,000 places in the first year of the master's degree for 160,000 students enrolled. Of course, not all places necessarily correspond to the wishes, or abilities, of students. In order to better respond to this mismatch, 4400 additional places were created in 2021 in the voltage lines; They will be perpetuated in 2022: this is the case in law, economics and psychology. In addition, an exchange procedure with the rectorate is organised every year for students who fail to integrate training of their choice and, in this context, regional rectors must submit three proposals to them. In 2021, the number of referrals was equivalent to 2020 and represents just over 4% of the workforce. There are also commissions for access to the second cycle of higher education. Things have changed considerably. In my time – François Mitterrand was President of the Republic – when we applied for DESS (diplôme d'études supérieures spécialisés), we did not have nine out of ten chances of gaining access to it, whereas this is now the case...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u124	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u125	... since more than nine out of ten students who have applied for a master's degree get a place without having to seize the services of the rectorate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u126	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u128	The real difficulty is that applications for admission are not synchronous: students who have been accepted in several master's degrees do not withdraw and it is only at the beginning of the year that they are present or absent and that one is able to respond favorably to those who had not obtained anything. The law of 2016 adapting the second cycle of French higher education to the bachelor-master-doctoral system confirms the right to pursue studies while affirming the possibility of selecting at entry into master's degree; It also recalls that further studies are not necessarily carried out in the continuity of obtaining the licence. We try to juggle with all these principles and understand the will of the legislator of the time. After discussing this with the students, we proposed to set up a platform based on the same principle as that of Parcoursup, in order to give national visibility on availabilities. At present, students are obliged to speak to the Rector because they do not know where there are places. Finally, there is indeed the specific problem of master's degrees in law and psychology. Psychology is a regulated profession; the bottleneck was previously between the first and second years of the master's degree, without anyone worrying about students who could not access Master 2. As far as the Master of Law is concerned, since the law competition took place at the end of the Master's year – this is still the case – Master's 1 students were allowed to go to the competition, and then they were drastically reduced in Master's 2, without also worrying about the students who were abandoned during the course of the cycle. The system has been improved, things still have to be done and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u129	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u130	I want to highlight another reality: you have dropped the budget for master's training by 1.53% – so there are fewer resources. This is still curious as the number of bachelor's students has increased by 150000, while the number of master's places is only 70000. There is indeed a problem with the overall budget. I do not understand why a young person who would have obtained a license would not have the ability to pursue a master's degree. So you want a selection, as your idea of a platform shows. Yesterday, I went to support students from Nanterre. They are fourteen of the sixty-one students without registration to wish to continue their studies in Nanterre: they will negotiate their place with the presidency of the university – I say negotiate well. But finally, we're not in the trade! And it is possible that the Presidency does not have a budget to accommodate them. In fact, university presidents complain about it. So all this is a story of budget and choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u131	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u132	I do not understand your technical argument: do we have the right, yes or no, to continue his studies? When you hold a license, you are likely to enter a master's degree; If this is not the case, it is better not to give them a license – in the same way as when you obtained the baccalaureate, you are likely to continue in the superior, otherwise you must stop giving the baccalaureate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u134	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u135	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 1453.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u136	In the same spirit, this amendment by the Socialist and Related Group aims to restore the appropriations allocated to master's training, which are declining this year. [[Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] You spoke, Madam Minister, of a deferred right, of a platform on the model of "Parcoursup"... I recall that this year in particular we are faced with young people who are denied some masters while because of the epidemic of covid-19, they have made unprecedented efforts for two years and have had to take courses behind a computer, cut off from any social link. No other generation has experienced this. We can therefore put additional resources in place to ensure that these young people who have been very vulnerable, who are very precarised, finally gain access to the Masters they want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u139	The same opinion as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u141	Since I do not want to allow any false information to continue, I will reply to the alleged decrease in the credits allocated to the Masters. You must have read with great attention the fascicles of the original finance bill concerning MIRES; you will have noticed that several institutions have acceded to the expanded responsibilities and competences: the École d'égnieurs en égistique mécanique, civil et physique de Saint-Étienne, the Institut national supérieure des sciences appliquées de Lyon, the École nationale des charters on 1 January 2021 or the École nationale supérieure de mécanique et des microtechniques de Besançon, on 1 January 2022. The appropriations for these schools, which were previously allocated from the Ministry's budget, have been transferred to the non-Title 2 appropriations, in order to affix the public service subsidy for these schools. There is therefore no decrease in the operating credits of the Masters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u142	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u143	[[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] I wonder, minister, if you ever talk to the student unions. They're not here to tap! They're here to raise the demands of the students. The information we have as deputies, like the unions, is that some students did not have access to the master's degree. We'd like to know why. Billions and billions have been committed to the stimulus plans: we must now devote as many resources as possible to the training of students. I do not understand how you can hold this speech and tell us that you have increased the number of staff in some training courses. That is not what we are saying: we denounce the fact that some students have remained blocked at the level of the license and have not been able to access the master's degree. If you listened to the students' demands, you couldn't deny it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u144	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1485.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u145	As I said earlier, yesterday I went to support the sixty-one students from Paris-Nanterre who could not be enrolled in university. I would like to reiterate that studying is not a privilege reserved for a few but a right for all. I personally knew, like you, the minister, another world in which, of course, there were fewer students but where places were open to all, a world in which selection did not exist, as is the case at present through the Pathup platform. Of course, you opened a small tap and made a few small increases. But it's a thin, flowing net, compared to the increase in the number of students. What is this world where a platform sorts, selects and spreads? In 2021, 22092 high school students left Parcoursup, discouraged by this system, which is similar to a combatant's journey. And what is the result of the races? It's that high school students enrol anywhere in the first year, then have to reorient themselves. Despite the law you called student guidance and success, we came back to the starting point: the young people are not satisfied with their first year and they must reorient themselves, not as a result of an experience they would have chosen, but because they were forced to go where they went. By this amendment, we wish to restore the right of everyone, whether in initial or continuing training, to enrol in the field of their choice. We want to get out of the logic of Parcoursup.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u147	You are denouncing the functioning of the Parcourup platform, but I consider it to be a very great step forward, if only in terms of information on the expectations of each training. She gives high school students lighting that they didn't benefit from a few years ago, when a draw was applied. The effectiveness of Parcoursup was confirmed this year and made it possible to make more proposals to the 931000 candidates: 93% of high school students, or 590,000 senior students, received at least one proposal for admission, a little more than in 2020. These best results concern all bachelors, i.e. those in the general, technological and vocational fields. It should be noted that 50% of bachelors in the technology sector now receive proposals for admission to university institutes of technology (IUT). We were far from such a proportion five years ago. Similarly, 73% of graduates in the vocational sector have received a proposal for advanced technician training (BTS). As you know, many of these students used to go into the mainstream and eventually give up. All the bachelors who wanted to be accompanied this year by a rectoral commission, with a view to enrollment in a higher education institution, were so. Mrs Rubin, we probably do not have the same vision of the access of bachelors to higher education and the development of students. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u149	In my turn, since each one tells his or her student journey, to testify to my experience: in my time, the entrance into a bachelor's degree was selective, as was the entry into a master's degree, the entry into a DEA (diploma of in-depth studies) and the entry into a thesis! It all seems to depend on years. It has enabled more than 501000 bachelors to find their place in higher education. There are now fewer than 200 students waiting for a proposal for admission, all from the professional sector and having received a negative opinion from their teachers for further study. However, they were accompanied, towards refresher classes, by springboard classes, because there would be no point in giving them a student card and giving them access to higher education if it was to send them straight into the wall! This is the meaning of the law on the guidance and success of students: we want to accompany students to enable them to succeed. You do not speak, Madam Member, of the hundreds of ad hoc trainings created by the schools to accompany the most fragile students and to avoid them suffering another failure. On the APB (post-bac admission) portal, remember, they had the possibility of enrolling in selective fields, even though they were not chosen for lack of places and had to register at the university, where they were drawn by lot – since it was then considered that there was no need to present any particular skills to enter! A good school record was required only to integrate preparatory classes and schools. It was to consider, basically, that training graduates baccalaureate + 8 is very little of a thing. With such a system, they are thousands to have stayed on the tile and failed even before the Christmas holidays. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, applauds]] Thanks to Parcoursup, we have broken this process. With almost 5% of additional students who pass their first year on the first shot and tens of thousands of students accompanied by professors to acquire the ability to succeed in higher education, I believe we can be proud of the law on the guidance and success of students and Courseup! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u150	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u151	It is good news to know that we are all here concerned about student success! On the other hand, we differ on the means. If Parcoursup now acts as an orientation platform, this is proof that the system failed upstream. In fact, information and guidance centres (IOCs) are being phased out, as are guidance counsellors. It is now the teachers who take on this difficult task; They do it as they can, while they are not trained for it. If we have the will to guarantee the right for every bachelor to access higher education, then let's be serious...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u152	Yes, let's be serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u153	...and take the necessary action! Some students will fail, it is inevitable, but give as many of them the opportunity to truly succeed and study serenely. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] As for access to the master's degree, I recall that 5,000 students ended up without any solution this year due to lack of places. The right to pursue deferred studies may be a good thing, but we must have the means to do so. And if some students are forced to drop out of school and work, it's because they just have to eat! Because of the mechanisms that strengthen social determinism, our country is depriving itself of great talents. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u154	On Amendment No 1454, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1449 and 1454, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u155	Amendment No 1449 by the Socialist and Related Group aims to provide for an indemnification of 250 million public research staff for the year 2022. As for Amendment No 1454, which was also tabled at the initiative of our group, it follows on from my introductory statement and concerns the situation of thousands of students with extremely difficult living conditions, for whom food is a critical issue – this issue, as you know, concerns many of us. By this amendment, we ask that all students continue to benefit from the 1 euro meal. The Socialist and Related Group had already proposed this measure during the consideration of the 2021 finance bill. It was then rejected by the executive, then resumed in January 2021 by the President of the Republic and announced by the Government in the recovery plan. All students then had access to two meals a day, at the university restaurant, at a price of 1 euro. We mentioned it last year and I recalled it in my opening statement: according to an Ipsos survey, 75 per cent of young people between the ages of 18 and 25 report that they are experiencing serious financial difficulties and thus restrict their diet. In order to take into account this investigation and the endless lines of students waiting to receive food aid – a scandal for our country! – this amendment, on which we are calling for a public vote, aims to extend the meal to 1 euro to all students, whether scholarship holders or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u156	First of all, Mr Chouat, the Special Rapporteur, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on Amendment No 1449.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u157	Many of us here remember this – I am thinking in particular of Philippe Berta: when we drafted the Research Programming Act for the years 2021 to 2030, the attached report highlighted the low remuneration in higher education, research and innovation. For this reason, adjustments for all personnel have been planned by the Government. In 2021, the Minister recalled that an additional 92 million had been released for this purpose. For 2022, under the RPA, an overall allocation of 112 million in the 150 Higher Education and University Research programmes and 172 Multidisciplinary Scientific and Technological Research will be devoted to improving the remuneration of research staff – researchers, engineers and technicians. This appropriation should be added to 28 million to strengthen the budget of research organisations and to ensure the sustainability of their recruitment. For all these reasons, opinion against Amendment No 1449.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u158	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on Amendment No. 1454.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u159	Like the following two amendments, Amendment No 1454 – which has nothing to do with the previous one – aims to extend the benefit of the EUR 1 meals served by the CROUS to all students. My unfavourable opinion on this subject will therefore be valid for Amendments Nos 1486 and 1473. Let us be aware that all scholarship holders have access to the 1 euro meal and that non-students have the opportunity to apply for a large number of grants from the CROUS. I recall that the allocation commissions take place every week – I meet regularly with representatives of the CROUS in my region; So I know how they work. It seems to me legitimate that aid should now be targeted. There are a number of us here who have children studying in higher education. Would you find it normal for our children today to have a 1 euro meal? Would this be a good use of public money? Of course not! Public money must go to those who need it most. Scholarship students are entitled to 1 euro meals. When non-students are in trouble because they are away from their family unit – this happens! –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u160	Even in the deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u161	... they can apply for CROUS meals at a rate of 1 euro, this aid being largely granted. I would add that we are the only country in the world to offer a single social tariff – the CROUS do not fail to recall it. There is no other country that offers students meals at a subsidized rate, already very advantageous, of 3,30 euros! The CROUS pursue a proactive social policy and offer meals whose quality continues to improve. They do a wonderful job and deserve our help. In order to operate, they need financial levers. That is why they must be able to continue to offer meals at 3.30 euros to the students who can afford them – and there are some!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u162	[[Smile]] What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments – which have nothing to do with them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u163	Let me make a few clarifications on Amendment No 1449, which proposes an increase of EUR 1,700 per year in the salaries of researchers. Please be aware that the Government has increased their remuneration by more than 2000 euros in two years and anticipates an annual increase of 7,000 euros in 2027. By the end of 2022, the increase will be €2460 per year for research staff and €2180 per year for lecturers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u164	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u165	In this regard, the Government therefore goes far beyond the request made in the amendment. I therefore invite you to withdraw it, Mrs Santiago. As regards Amendment No 1454 on 1 euro meals for students, Mr Le Vigoureux recalled: meals distributed by the CROUS are subsidized for 100% of students. Some students face greater difficulties than others: this is the case for scholarship students but also others, who then receive various assistance from the CROUS. It is essential to target the benefit of 1 euro meals to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u166	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u167	[[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] I would like to believe you, Mr Special Rapporteur, when you say that France is the only country in the world to subsidize students' meals at such a high level – I will, however, check. I am personally very proud that this is the case, but I know that this is not the case with the majority, who are systematically trying to undermine social security and unemployment insurance! Admit, however, that while health and the maintenance of wages are rights for all, it is curious that food, the most vital need of the human being, is not also the same principle of universality. While the number of people in need of food aid has reached an exceptional level in our country, particularly among students, it is incredible that the question does not go through your mind any more! You say that MEPs' children do not need to benefit from 1 euro meals, but we are talking about young adults who do not always have the same life paths as their parents and who live independently. They should therefore be able to benefit from a universal scheme in the same way as other students. That's what we're claiming. We believe that scholarships need to be reassessed and their criteria redefined in order to benefit more students, particularly students in precarious situations who are not entitled to them today. In reality, there is a way to end individualised aids to create universality: it is the way of giving students a fixed income. Indeed, studying is not a job, but it is work. All students – and not just those who receive a scholarship – must therefore be able to benefit from income; Only in this way will we be able to get out of the 1 euro meal system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u168	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1454.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u169	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 10 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u170	On Amendment No 1486, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1486.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u171	Look, we're still trying! Many of us here do not understand why 1 euro meals are not renewed. That was a good measure! There aren't many that we think are good; That one was, so we're saying it. We regret that you put an end to it. You say that students who are not scholarship holders but who are in an exceptional situation of precariousness could ask to benefit from them; But who knows? How many files have been filed, how many students have applied? And why always put people under the obligation to ask for charity by lowering their heads? It's quite unbearable. You also said earlier that it was not necessary for students who have – or whose parents have – comfortable means to benefit from the measure, that it would not be normal. But are these really going to the university restaurant? Are the children of deputies, for example, who earn 4000 or 5000 euros a month, going to the U restaurant? Some may be going, but there are not many in this case. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Here we go: let's get out of the way! Let's start from the precariousness of young people, which explodes! We have to stop diverting our heads with intellectual dishonesty. These needs must be met, because eating is a vital need. Reintroduce this measure, since it was good! Return meals to 1 euro for all students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u173	Unfavorable, and then that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u174	Yes, unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u175	Mrs Trisse, we are very pleased to have your opinion, but it turns out that it is up to the Special Rapporteur to give his opinion. If you want to speak, you can raise your hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u176	I still want to react because I find that we are being questioned in a really rude way, not to say more. I'm just going to read you a testimony from the CROUS de Caen, which I know very well, about the price at 1 euro, accessible to scholarship students but also to non-students going through a complicated financial situation – it can be found in a West France a few days ago: 506 files have been accepted since September and, for the most urgent cases, the file is processed during the day. These opportunities are becoming increasingly known and allocation commissions are being seized by students. Five hundred and six, just for my university! Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u178	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u179	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1486.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u180	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 9 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u181	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1473.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u182	[[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] My amendment is not exactly the same as those that have just been defended, but it is getting closer to it. We can share some of your arguments, Mr Special Rapporteur, but we also see every week the queues that lie in front of solidary grocery stores and food distributions. There are students whose parents may not be able to help them or are no longer with them to support them. That is why we propose to extend the exceptional measure put in place by the Government, giving students two meals at 1 euro a week in the university restaurants of the CROUS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u184	For reasons equivalent to those already expressed, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u186	I would just like to say to Mrs Descamps that this possibility is already available to students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u187	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 1440.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u188	I said earlier in my speech: there are too few housing units for students. While you announced the "Student Housing Plan 60000" in 2018, we regret that only 35,926 new places were created. We therefore want to increase the appropriations to launch an emergency procedure for the construction of housing, especially since, in addition to the shortage of housing, the reduction of the APLs – personal aids to housing is added.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u190	There were two difficulties in the construction and renovation operations: the health crisis, but also the lack of land available in the large agglomerations, for which the minister has shown a great deal of voluntarism. The CROUS are mobilised to meet the many expectations of the students and, as part of the recovery plan, EUR 250 million has been allocated to their network to speed up the renovation of the residences and the modernisation of the restoration structures. In other words, in the current context, many measures are being taken in favour of student housing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u192	As far as student housing is concerned, we have recently had the opportunity to take stock with my colleague Emmanuelle Wargon and, indeed, 36,000 places in social residence have been put into service, despite the difficulties associated with the pandemic. In addition, there are 27,000 places in private residences, which have also been made available to students. As the Special Rapporteur said, the real problem is land. The mayors of very large cities in northern France explained to me that they did not want students in their city, or at least that they did not want to house them; In the same way, regional presidents told me that student housing was not their problem or their competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u193	Their problem or their competence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u194	There's both of them, you can choose! The work we are doing is really important: sixty-nine state-owned land has been identified in the vicinity of universities and higher education institutions; They will allow us to continue to accelerate the creation of student housing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u195	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1483.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u196	It goes in the same direction as the one just defended by my colleague: it aims to speed up the construction and renovation of student housing. We all agree that there is not enough and I find it difficult to understand: you have just told us that you are aware of the problem, that you have made an effort on this subject and that you intend to continue to do so. That's very good, but we think it's not enough! If you want to continue along the same lines, how can you refuse to vote on our amendments? It's incomprehensible again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u198	As before, unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u200	Disadvantaged too. It's not a money problem, actually; It's really a land problem available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u201	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 1032.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u202	This amendment, of which Paula Forteza is the first signatory, is intended to provide additional funding for research on women's health. There is a lack of research on this subject, particularly with regard to the effects of vaccination on pregnant women or on the menstrual cycle, but also on all specifically female ills: problems related to rules, diseases such as endometriosis, adaptation of medicines to pregnancy. In the face of such a shortage and because entire sections of the research are opening up to us, we propose to open a new budget line to which EUR 50 million would be allocated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u204	It turns out that several research organisations, including the CNRS, INSERM and INED – the National Institute for Demographic Studies – are already active on these topics through numerous symposia and publications or through awareness campaigns such as the INSERM Research and Health Days (JHRs), which focused on the theme "Gender and gender in health research, an innovative articulation". In addition, in the context of the covid-19 health crisis, several studies have focused specifically on women's health, such as the Coropreg study entitled "Covid-19 and pregnancy: a population cohort of 3000 women and newborns". Women's health research projects will also be eligible for funding under the ANR's generic call for projects, which will increase by 17.4% in 2022 for basic and translational research, and through the Clinical Hospital Research Program (CHR) for clinical research. For these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u206	Same advice, but you're right: for a very long time, in clinical trials, studies were conducted on male subjects. Fortunately, regulation has evolved and, from a regulatory point of view, it is now mandatory to conduct clinical trials on subjects of both sexes in a satisfactory proportion, except, of course, in trials involving problems restricted to only one of the sexes. This has now been the case in Europe for 15 years and we are finally beginning to have clinical trials on both men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u207	Amendment No 1448 by Mrs Valérie Rabault is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u208	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1484.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u209	It aims to create a real plan for the tenure of all the precariouss of higher education and research carrying out perennial missions. Of the 92,160 teachers in institutions under the supervision of your Ministry, Minister, 60% belong to the body of teachers-researchers, 26% are contract workers and 14% are second-level teachers. Contractors include PhD students, ATERs and guest teachers. In view of the increase in the number of students – an additional 59600 students between 2019 and 2020, and a further 34,000 by 2021 – it seems necessary to us, if we want to be able to project ourselves in the future, not to tinker with contract workers but to support the teachers we have by titularizing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u211	Unfavorable notice, contract teachers can be professional stakeholders who come to share their expertise with a student audience, doctoral contract holders or ATERs, who are still in training. They should not be titularized until they have completed their training and passed the competition to become lecturers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u212	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1439 and 1441, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u213	The aim of Amendment No 1439 is to increase the specific aid granted to students, with No 1441 increasing investment credits for real estate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u215	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u217	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u218	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u219	I would like to return to the subject of precarious teachers. I know that some of them are invited, but the volume of courses provided by precarious teachers is increasing while that provided by the incumbents is decreasing. For example, at the University of Paris VIII, full-time teachers are not sufficient to adequately support student groups. We're closing holes with PhD students. Better quality training provided by titularized teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u220	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1461.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u221	We present this amendment every year, because of its importance to many of our citizens. Lyme disease is unknown: neither his diagnosis nor his treatment is understood. A study group is dedicated to him in our assembly. For the past four years, it has brought together Members of Parliament of all sensitivities. Given the lack of awareness, we need to increase budgets for research on this disease. That is the purpose of the amendment, which calls on the Government, as the victims feel misunderstood. We need to get to grips with this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u223	Fourteen amendments have been tabled on this subject, reflecting the concern of many parliamentarians expressing the will of the sick and the associations that are being advanced in this area. We will find this same wish on other subjects, such as paediatric cancers or rare diseases. Lyme disease research receives multifactorial funding, which is why it is extremely complex to know which ones are dedicated to a given pathology. In any case, a plurality of actors contribute to this research. The ANR, of which I do not understand that one wishes to reduce the funding, has launched a generic call for projects which allowed to select two projects, for an amount of 735000 euros. ANSES (National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour) is very active in the field of tick vector diseases and collaborates on certain topics with INRAE (National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment). INSERM has recently funded the project "Quali-explo- PIQTIQ", tracing the history of the disease and the experiences of patients. Six INRAE sites are involved in this research, with dedicated infrastructure, including an insectarium and tick breeding. Tick vector diseases are also research topics for the Institut Pasteur, the CNRS and the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care, through the Hospital Clinical Research Programme (PHRC). In January 2020, 45 ongoing projects, amounting to €6 million, were identified by consultation between the stakeholders concerned. In addition, this research will necessarily benefit from the budgetary impact of the Research Programming Act, which provides for an increase of 335 million euros between 2021 and 2022 on the 172 programme. INSERM thus saw its grant increase by €36 million. I do not bring the contradiction to the authors of the various amendments tabled on the subject; I just want to shed some light. Personally, I ask for their withdrawal. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u225	The rapporteur has been extremely thorough, and I would add, as you have often heard, that it is very difficult in fundamental research to identify what will ultimately solve the problem of a disease. Thus, in fundamental research, projects are funded to study the neural control of salivary glands in ticks. When this study understands that this neural control and these salivary glands played a crucial role in the transmission of viral agents, it can ultimately benefit research on Lyme disease. When one wants to shift funding towards programmes whose purpose is certain, it is clinical research, linked to the Ministry of Health. We're talking about funding cohorts, translational research studies, in the patient's bed. But in terms of basic research, it is difficult, if not impossible, to identify research devoted to a particular pathology, and therefore to influence its funding. However, because I know that many of you are interested in this subject, a recommendation has been made by INSERM that a concerted effort between all the research actors should identify everything that, from close to or far, could be used to propose a diagnosis, etiology and preventive approaches. Finally, it is a question of going to the large library to look for the knowledge provided by fundamental research all the elements that could help to fight Lyme disease. Request for withdrawal or unfavourable opinion on this set of amendments. As the rapporteur pointed out, if we add up all the funds devoted to this pathology, we understand that it is studied by about 100 researchers and that several tens of millions of euros are spent on it each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u226	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 74 and 861. Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u227	I have listened carefully to the Special Rapporteur and the Minister, but funding for research on Lyme disease is needed. Instead of carrying out forty-five projects for 6.5 million euros, I think it is more appropriate to spend 5 million on a cohort project, led by INSERM and other bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u228	This is the competence of the Ministry of Health!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u229	Instead of doing several small projects that won't go far, it's better to make a big one, with a very precise arrow. Lyme bcorliosis is the most common tick vector disease, and with climate change, it will affect more and more people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u230	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 861.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u231	I am amazed because every year we come back with arguments, convictions, by wearing the voice of patient associations and families. And every year, we are told to contact the Ministry of Health. And when we ask the Ministry of Health how to advance Lyme disease treatments, we are referred to the Ministry of Research. In 2007, when I was first elected, I was one of the first to talk about Lyme disease in this chamber. There were 30,000 new cases per year. In 2017, there were 45,000 cases, and it is estimated that in 2018, the number of new cases was 67,000. During this mandate, the number of annual cases doubled. How long will this last? You may think that this is not a public health issue, but the care path of these families is unacceptable. We have made progress on prevention, we have begun to make progress on diagnosis. Now we have to dedicate teams, let the ministries of research and health work together, let's stop saying, "It's not me, it's the other! This kind of argument is valid in recreational classes, not among patients with Lyme disease!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u232	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u233	There's no question of turning the ball away. Funding cohorts for clinical research is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Basic research is done, many studies are funded. As long as the results of this research are not known, we cannot know if they will concern Lyme disease. The important thing is to carry out the census of studies to determine where to inject funding. Mrs Trisse, you say that it is better to spend EUR 5 million on a cohort to carry out clinical research rather than to devote EUR 6.5 million to basic research, I think it is necessary to do both. We must continue to feed basic research, as it is not known whether research at INRAE will ever be useful to better understand the phenomenon of Lyme disease parasitism. One might think there's no point in funding an agronomy institute. However, this is sometimes the way to advance research on human pathologies. It is therefore not at all to refer the ball back to the Ministry of Health that I delivered an opinion against the amendments, but because basic research is very different from clinical research and it is important that both can move forward together. In addition, since you have been asking us this question for several years, we must be able to report back to you on the ongoing research. That is why INSERM carried out this census.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u234	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u235	INRAE, which has just been mentioned, has developed an interesting mapping that allows us to know, in each region, the percentage of ticks potentially carrying the pathogen. In addition, in the field of basic research, work on tick proteins is being carried out in Strasbourg at the CNR, the national reference centre of the Borrelias. We must continue on this path. However, for having discussed it when I wrote a report with my colleague Vincent Descoeur on the course of care related to Lyme disease, I consider it necessary to allocate a larger sum to this research, whether fundamental or clinical. The problem is that we cannot find out which ministry we should address.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u236	You say that but at the time of the votes you do not raise your hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u237	Mr President, I would like my colleagues to stop talking because I do not get along.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u238	But you're not consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u239	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 651.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u240	This is an amendment by my colleague Véronique Louwagie, who last year presented to the Finance Committee of the National Assembly a report that highlights the shortcomings of France's policy to combat Lyme disease and tick vector diseases. In particular, it takes stock of the financing and implementation of the first national plan to combat these diseases. This shows that the national research effort in this area is very modest – I do not say too much, but I think so – and that, for this reason, coordination is currently insufficient. The reason we raise this problem every year in the budget debates is because we are convinced that the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health should be able to coordinate themselves in order to play a pilot role together and to establish themselves as the bridgehead in terms of research, clinical or fundamental, on this disease. There is a need to move forward on this issue because patient wandering is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u241	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 1336.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u242	This amendment, which aims to provide EUR 5 million to finance further research, is based on the recommendations of the report I have already mentioned. Indeed, according to the discussions that I have been able to carry out there, INSERM estimates that the sum of EUR 5 million would cover the financing needs in this area. The dart is not necessarily relevant when the field of research is wide, I agree, but in this case the studies have been launched, scientists know what they are looking for and have obtained early answers. It is therefore now that dangling is necessary if research on tick vector diseases is to be advanced. I would remind you that these diseases are becoming more and more common. If they are not necessarily fatal, they are disabling. This is a public health issue that needs to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u243	Amendment No 1471 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u244	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u245	I would like to speak again to defend these amendments, which are, I would remind you, transpartite, since I have signed them with many other colleagues, some of whom are Vincent Descoeur. I continue to believe that there is a need at some point to send a signal to patient associations and physicians to ensure consensus on this issue and to facilitate the development of a National Diagnostic and Care Protocol (NDSP).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u246	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 178 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u247	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 1337.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u248	With this amendment, I propose a EUR 3 million shift. That's my last number!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u249	And your last word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u250	My last word, it's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u251	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u252	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1467.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u253	At the end of 2018, we adopted the principle of a specific budget of 5 million euros per year for research on childhood cancers: finally, France was taking a step forward. It is essential to state here that this dart has shown its effectiveness, as some would then suggest that it would not be beneficial. He was. However, it has limitations. In 2019, eighty-eight of the 588 projects submitted as part of the general cancer research calls were selected. Only four of them dealt with pediatric cancers. We cannot continue to oppose cancers of adults and children; to punctuate the budget for research on the former in order to compensate for the enormous shortcomings we have in relation to the latter; to finance research projects on paediatric cancers only if they have similarities with those of adults; to forget completely – irreparably – the typical cancers of the child, such as those of the brain stem or certain types of sarcoma. The amount of EUR 5 million for paediatric cancer research is insufficient. This is why funding for the most important and ambitious projects is limited. In addition, part of this was taken from the adult research budget, which was not our objective. France cannot continue to lag so much behind in research on paediatric cancers. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] For this reason, we are asking that EUR 20 million be directed towards research on paediatric cancers. France can and must take this step. Let us not forget: a higher budget means more research. Let us recall once again that some of the calls for projects on paediatric cancers that could have been launched were not, for lack of funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u255	As I have done previously with the amendments on Lyme disease, I will give one and the same opinion on the fifteen amendments on the issue of paediatric cancers. The fact that so many proposals converge on this subject shows how concerned national representation is about this scourge. As you pointed out, the Government had committed itself to making an effort of 25 million euros over five years – from 2019 to 2023 – or 5 million euros per year. The National Cancer Institute (NCIA) thus again benefits from an abundance of €5 million by 2022. All these elements are perfectly traceable. As you know, a working group has been set up, under the auspices of CNIB, of scientists and collectives of associations. One of the major advances in the action plan defined in 2019 and now being implemented is the association of parents at all stages of the decision-making process. The first major focus of the working group is to consolidate the French research stream in pediatric cancerology. To do this, very concrete actions have been funded since 2019, in particular to bring young international researchers to France. In this regard, more than an additional abundance, it is the sustainability of staffing that is important. Calls for projects have also been launched to establish a database in paediatric oncology, for an amount of up to €3.5 million. The data is a key issue: scientists need a reliable source for current and past research projects in pediatric oncology. An innovative approach to research projects was also adopted, in order to bring together disciplines "that were not used to it", in the words of Professor Ifrah, president of CNIB. For example, for the year 2021, the call for projects on the contribution of interdisciplinary approaches has a budget of around €3 million. In addition, the "High Risk-High Gain" project call for research on paediatric cancers has been renewed in order to generate more breakthroughs by exploring promising new avenues – although still very uncertain – that could lead to advances in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of paediatric cancers. The budget for this call for projects is EUR 2 million for two-year projects. The ten-year cancer strategy, with €123 million in 2022, includes a fact sheet dedicated to cancers of children and young adults. It details eleven specific measures, which will complement the other actions already carried out. To conclude, since the appropriations will be renewed each year until 2023 for a total of EUR 25 million, that they have been paid out and that the guidelines laid down by the working group seem good, I propose the withdrawal of this amendment and the following. Otherwise, I will be forced to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u257	Again this year, many amendments deal with research into paediatric cancers. I am obviously aware of your commitment to this issue, Mrs Descamps. Olivier Véran and I share it. I believe that everyone will recognize that the Government's commitment, which we have consistently reaffirmed in the budget discussions since 2018, is beginning to bear fruit. It is perfectly legitimate for us to report on these developments. First of all, research in pediatric oncology requires the identification of new scientific concepts to make qualitative leaps in understanding these cancers, some of which are very specific. There is therefore an issue of coordination and means, but also of a normative framework. In order to make progress in this area, the evolution of the regulation on chemeric embryos or stem cell research – basically, all the provisions that you adopted in the Bioethics Act of 2 August 2021 – is at least as important as the complementary means that you refer to. Paediatric oncology research is a fundamental research, essentially interdisciplinary, which must always be the subject of specific funding, because this discipline is sometimes far removed from classical oncology and paediatrics. Since childhood cancers are often the result of abnormalities during embryonic development, it is important to be able to study the latter. As a result, a large number of research organizations and universities with basic biology laboratories contribute to research on paediatric cancers. I would also like to point out that I have committed myself to campaigning with the European Union to ensure that the issue of cancers, particularly paediatric cancers, is taken into account. Indeed, if each particular case is of course an abomination, paediatric cancers ultimately remain rare diseases. If we want to understand them better, we must be able to observe several of them of the same kind, which is only possible at European level. That is why I was very pleased to see, when Horizon Europe was launched, that one of its five missions – the only one dedicated to health – was on cancers, with a strong paediatric cancer component. The European Commission has made this fight one of its priorities for the next seven years. This will enable additional funding to be mobilised. In addition to the EUR 5 million each year dedicated to research on paediatric cancers, all calls for projects to finance cancer research can, as I had pointed out, be the subject of applications for funding for projects related to childhood cancers. It is not a question of pretending that one field of research should replace another, but simply of asserting that we are able to finance all the quality projects that are submitted in this context. This is why the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation has chosen, through the Research Programming Act for the years 2021 to 2030, to increase the INCA budget by €22.7 million. This budget, which amounted to EUR 38 million in 2020 and had already been abounded with an additional EUR 13.5 million, will thus reach EUR 60 million in 2025, which will enable the Institute to support all research projects in this field. The Ministry will also finance thematic calls for projects worth more than €52 million. They will focus in particular on prevention, sequelae and bad-prognosis cancers – among which paediatric cancers obviously find their place. Finally, as I had committed myself to it, and even if, as you will understand, it is sometimes difficult, I asked INSERM to evaluate the off-project funding – the core funding – dedicated to paediatric cancers. It follows that of the 209 million euros allocated for the operation of the INSERM units concerned with cancerology – an amount which excludes salaries – 21 million euros, or 10% of the budget, are dedicated to research in paediatric cancerology. It is therefore clear that, beyond the specific commitment of EUR 5 million, funding for basic research projects – particularly those relating to development biology, which will allow for a better understanding of paediatric cancers and thus better fight against them – is fully available. I, therefore, also make a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u258	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u259	You are right, Madam Minister: we also attach the utmost importance to cooperation with the European Union. We already said that here. The same applies to embryonic research. You gave the example, Mr. Special Rapporteur, of the creation of a working group with parents of sick children. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] But it is precisely because we listen to these researchers and parents that we know that, in order to carry out the important projects that could advance research on pediatric cancers, the budget must be increased. We created this arrow in 2018. Let us preserve the principle, but let us increase its ambition, so that we can really move forward and save these children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u260	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u261	I am amazed at the answers provided by the Special Rapporteur and the Minister. Mrs Descamps has clearly explained that the current budget of EUR 5 million, even if it is a step forward, is not up to the stakes: it is not enough! I would remind you that if we succeeded in adopting the principle of this specific abundance three years ago, it is not thanks to the support of the Government – perhaps you were in favour of it, Mrs Vidal, but Mrs Buzyn was opposed to it, as you know very well: it is all the Members who, in a trans-party approach, pressured the Government to obtain this budget of EUR 5 million. We now have a three-year decline, which I think is sufficient to see that there is still a lack of momentum towards research into paediatric cancers. [[Victor Habert-Dassault applauds]] You mention the call for projects "High Risk-High Gain", but let's talk about it! Twenty-eight projects were submitted, of which nineteen were evaluated by CNIB experts as financial, i.e. ranked A or B, but for lack of resources only six were. By keeping a 5 million arrow, we will not be able to do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u262	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u263	[[Mr. Eric Diard applauds]] I think that when illness is there, words cannot contain distress, and money is absolutely necessary for combat. If we move 20 million more, which represents 35 cents of euros per French, we can win this fight. It seems to me that every Frenchman, as well as the Government and our assembly, can understand that despite all the financial efforts already made, we must do so. The research works, it is true, it needs money, it is sure, but it needs this funding to be sustainable, in order to create the conditions for finding new medicines every year. Orphan diseases are very present: each affects very few people, but for these children and for these parents, I will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u264	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u265	It was a withdrawal amendment of 15 million. As soon as the 20 million has been adopted, I am pleased to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u266	Amendment No 1468 by Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde is probably also withdrawn for the same reasons?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u267	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u268	Is Amendment No 1479 by Mr François Ruffin withdrawn, Mrs Ressiguier?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u269	Yes: we were playing small arms, for once, asking only for an increase of 15 million. I am delighted that Mrs Descamps' amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u270	Is Amendment No 1469 also withdrawn, Mrs Descamps?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u271	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u272	Is Amendment No 293 withdrawn, Mr Diard?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u273	Of course, and with great pleasure, since it was my last withdrawal amendment, which proposed an increase of 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u274	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor to support Amendment No. 521.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u275	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u276	Mrs Descamps, are Amendments Nos 1466 and 1470 withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u277	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u278	Amendment No 1474 by Mr Thierry Benoit is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u279	Mrs Sophie Métadier, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No 798 of the Committee on Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u280	The IFP-New Energy (IFPEN) is a public industrial and commercial establishment responsible, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 144-2 of the Energy Code, for carrying out research activities in the scientific and technical fields with a view to the development of the technologies and materials of the future. From the French Petroleum Institute, the organization has reoriented its research activities to the areas of sustainable mobility and new energies. Despite the excellence of this institute, the funding allocated in the 2022 finance bill under the 190 Research programme in the fields of sustainable energy, development and mobility is set at EUR 123.3 million, which is more than EUR 5 million lower than in 2018. The decrease in the subsidy for public service charges is apparently justified by the size of IFPEN's own resources – patent products and dividends from energy subsidiaries – but these are very dependent on economic conditions and the health crisis has affected patent products to the tune of EUR 10 million out of a total budget of EUR 300 million. Faced with this situation, the institution has had to freeze its recruitment and reduce its mass of 109 full-time equivalents (FTEs) since the end of 2019. In order to support this body in a difficult time and to enable it to deploy its expertise in the field of the energy transition, the Committee on Sustainable Development proposes to abound Action 17 of the 190 programme to the tune of EUR 5 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations; This amount corresponds to what has been requested by IFPEN from its supervisory authority pending a resumption of economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u282	Like you, I had tabled an amendment to that effect in the Committee on Finance, which was not adopted; This was already the case last year for a similar amendment. During the preparation of my report, I asked the ministries of research and ecological transition to work with them on this issue, and I regret that no solution could be found at this stage. Personally, I maintain my view of the financial situation of this operator, of which I state that this is a short-term situation. That is why my amendment concerned only 2022, considering that by 2023 the increase in activity, particularly in the fields of oil and renewable energy, would no doubt allow IFPEN to find more important resources. However, in my capacity as Special Rapporteur, I have to make it clear to you that the IFPEN grant increases, according to the Ministry of Budget, by EUR 590000 in 2022, that the Institute is also benefiting from the recovery plan and, as such, has received EUR 6.7 million for the renovation of public buildings, that it could also benefit from funding under the calls for projects concerning hydrogen and the automotive sector, and that the precautionary reserve for 2021 can be thawed to the tune of EUR 2 million. The Committee on Finance has delivered an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u284	Unfavorable opinion: the difficulties of IFPEN are in fact mainly related to the consequences of the health crisis on the level of activity in the energy sector, and by its impact on its own resources. Furthermore, as the Special Rapporteur has just pointed out, this body continues to be assisted, in particular by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research under new energy technologies, through an additional EUR 1 million provided for in this draft finance law. It is important to recall that, as part of the recovery plan and future investment programmes, exceptional investments are planned in the fields of decarbonisation of industry, bio-based products and industrial biotechnology, or decarbonisation of mobility, which will benefit from EUR 1.5 billion over the next six years, and that these include sub-programmes of basic research and equipment, of which IFPEN has been designated as one of the pilots. I believe it is essential to continue to support IFPEN, but not as this amendment proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u285	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u286	This institute still has great sponsors who have just posted quite exceptional results! I am the Member of Parliament for Lacq, there were born the Elf Aquitaine Group and the Total Group, and I think IFPEN can turn to these major oil groups for funding. I remember, without wanting to question the entire management of IFPEN, that a few years ago a team that was in Pau was relocated, in Lyon, I believe – it seemed to be a matter of rationalizing management. By all means, let us not let these great technocrats who run IFPEN carry out permanent restructurings that put many families in difficulty, then turn to parliamentarians to obtain additional appropriations when they have the opportunity to address these oil tankers that I mentioned. The Socialist and Related Group will therefore not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u287	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 1034.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u288	This amendment is a demand: it aims to change our vision of relations between women and men because it must be noted that in 2021 the contraceptive burden still rests largely on women, which has an impact on their bodies, on their finances and also on their psychological well-being. There's still no man's pill. In order to combat this gender imbalance and in line with the logic of equality between women and men, this amendment aims to advance research on male contraceptive methods. It is time to make everyone responsible for contraception, and I invite you to encourage research on male contraception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u290	With regard to the issue of equality between women and men with regard to contraception, the public priority was to promote the education and promotion of sexual and reproductive health in all places of life, as well as education and information on sexuality, especially for young people, as well as training and awareness-raising for health professionals. All these actions are planned within the framework of the National Sexual Health Strategy, which provides for strengthening sexuality education in schools for all, and training and equipping professionals. This strategy provides for measures in its second road map to carry out a study on barriers to definitive contraception in the general population and among health professionals, and above all to bring the matter before the High Health Authority on male contraception. Several research projects are underway on the latter, including a project on retinoic acid receptor antagonists. That is why I personally express an unfavorable opinion – although I obviously share the philosophy of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u291	[[Smile]] You're a philosopher, Mr. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u292	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 1509.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u293	Access to university education for young people with disabilities is particularly difficult. While there are accompanying students with disabilities (AESH), formerly school life auxiliaries (AVS), from kindergarten to high school, such accompaniment is not provided for in the university curriculum. It is known that the continuity of schooling varies according to the disability, and that the rate of schooling in the ordinary environment decreases as the student grows. Each institution has its own disability policy. Although progress has been made and some initiatives can be welcomed, reception solutions still seem insufficient. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure that all persons with disabilities have access to higher education, thus building decent and sustainable jobs for all. The aim of this appeal amendment is therefore to support the creation of the post of university assistant in order to accompany our fellow citizens with disabilities who are entering a university career.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u295	Your amendment abounds the appropriations for the 142 Higher education and agricultural research programme: it is in this context that I give my opinion. The reception of pupils and students with special educational needs in agricultural educational institutions is defined in the memorandum of 21 October 2015 of the Directorate-General for Education and Research (DGER) of the Ministry of Agriculture. This note recalls that three forms of assistance are foreseen: human, technical and organisational. In addition, as part of the implementation of the Law of 11 February 2005 on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities, the DGER has three objectives: to adapt the living environment to make it accessible to all; more students and students with disabilities; To integrate more workers with disabilities into the educational community. I am therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u296	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1480.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u297	The National Museum of Natural History (MNHN) is not only a flagship of our higher education and research, but also an institution of scientific, technical and industrial culture (CSTI). I know, Madam Minister, your determined action to make the CSTI a major issue. You announced in April this year significant progress in this area within the MNHN itself. As an establishment of CSTI the National Museum of Natural History suffered, like others, from the consequences of the covid: after an eight-month closure, it was subjected to gauges of attendance. The MNHN lost EUR 18 million of its own resources in 2020, and its losses for 2021 are expected to amount to EUR 24 million, a total of EUR 42 million in two years. It's huge! The State wanted to accompany this type of establishment, and important compensation was granted to them, sometimes to the euro, by several ministries – I am thinking of the Ministry of Culture, but also of the armies. For the time being, the MNHN received 4 million euros of exceptional compensation last December. The amendment aims to add 17 million to this EUR 4 million, which would compensate half of the losses and make it possible not to call into question the short-term investments absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u299	The finances of the National Museum of Natural History showed a surplus budget balance of EUR 5 million, since the revenue contraction of EUR 18 million was offset by a decrease in expenditure, in particular operating expenditure, resulting from a smaller activity. In December 2020, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation provided the Museum with an exceptional grant of almost €4 million to help it cope with the financial effects of the crisis. In terms of investments, the Ministry's annual equity allocations increased from less than €5 million in 2017 to nearly €10 million in 2019 and 2020, to enable the Museum to continue its real estate renovation operations. The Committee on Finance has not considered the amendment, but I personally give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u301	In addition to the Special Rapporteur's reply, I would point out that beyond the €10 million allocated in 2019 and 2020, we increased the financial support for real estate projects to €15 million in 2021, and added €15 million in 2022. The MNHN benefits from a working capital of almost 50 million euros. We will remain attentive and we will be at the side of the establishment, but I would ask for the amendment to be withdrawn, which, failing that, will be the subject of an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u302	Mrs Charvier, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u303	I'm holding him, Mr. President. The exceptional decrease in expenditure is partly due to a postponement of the work sites slowed down during the co-vid period. Disbursements are therefore to be expected. The resources, amounting to EUR 15 million, to support renovations of buildings are not new: they already existed before the health crisis. While the level of MNHN's cash flow is now satisfactory, MNHN's cash flow is in some way pre-empted by multi-annual commitments: the actual available margin therefore amounts to more than EUR 15 or 20 million. For example, the renovation of the gallery of palaeontology and comparative anatomy, which has been expected for several years, is not intended for further compensation. Of course, other projects are likely to be postponed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u304	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 1451.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u305	Ms Josette Manin, the first signatory of the amendment, called for the creation of a new EUR 10 million budget programme within the Research and Higher Education mission, which would provide research operators with financial resources to put an end to the erosion of their payroll.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u307	The technical old age (GVT) is a subject that slips without aging budget in budget... In fact, I had tabled an amendment to the 2021 Finance Bill, which was intended, among other things, to fund the GVT of research organizations. The CNRS received an increase in its grant of €75 million in 2021 to meet this funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u308	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u309	Under the LPR, the budget for 2022 includes substantial increases for the research organisations targeted by your amendment: €92 million for the CNRS, €36 million for the INSERM, and €33 million for the CNES – National Centre for Space Studies. Finally, the summary of the amendment refers to the Conference of University Presidents, which estimates the cost of the GVT between EUR 40 million and EUR 200 million. The fork is still wide. I would add that this estimate relates to universities and not to the research organisations dealt with in the amendment. The amendment has not been discussed by the committee, and, in my personal capacity, despite all the convergences that we can have on this subject, I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u310	Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1464 and 1465, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u311	They aim to improve students' access to sports practice. Amendment No 1464 aims at helping higher education institutions to create, renovate and maintain sports facilities. Amendment No 1465, which is more of an appeal amendment, tends to allow students to benefit from the pass'sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u312	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u313	The CVEC is already being used to finance the improvement of the sports infrastructure of academic institutions. The return on this tax has increased further: since its inception, it has raised 410 million euros. The effort for sport is also measured in the light of the planned increases in the Sport programme of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, i.e. nearly 200 million euros, including 100 million from 2022, which will enable 5,000 sports equipment to be built in three years. As for Amendment No 1465, pass'sport is a financial aid for young people who enrol in sports clubs. It is therefore not logical to extend this system without resource conditions by using only the criterion of access or not to a university sports infrastructure. The two amendments have not been discussed by the committee, but I am against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u314	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u315	As a follow-up to the previous amendments on sport, the aim of the amendment is to increase the funding allocated to artistic practice at the university by EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u316	I should like to inform the House that I have received a request from the La France group for a public vote on Amendment No 1490. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u317	On May 9, 2021, the FAGE – Federation of General Student Associations – published a new survey on the impact of the crisis on 18-25 year-olds, one year after a first survey. It shows that 83% of students report having been affected psychologically, emotionally or physically since the start of the health crisis in March 2020, which represents a four-point increase in one year. 31% of respondents reported having had suicidal thoughts since the start of the crisis, an increase of 10 points. Finally, two out of five students have given up care since March 2020, an 11-point increase. Social workers play an essential role in helping students in difficulty, no one will deny it. If we count one social assistant for 5,000 students in Germany, the situation is very different in France where there is only one social assistant for 12,000 students in the CROUS. The sixty additional assistants announced by the Government were a good thing, but that would not be enough to meet the needs. We propose to recruit social workers to reach the ratio of a social worker to 7,000 students. The cost of this measure was estimated at €7.5 million during the Flash Mission of the Committee on Cultural Affairs on the financing of CROUS in the context of the Coronavirus epidemic. My colleague Fabienne Colboc and I, who were the rapporteur of this flash mission, wrote: "In a context of increasing student insecurity, however, human accompaniment, and incarnate, appears more necessary than ever. It is therefore necessary to raise the employment ceiling allocated to the CROUS in finance law in order to enable them to recruit more. Dear colleagues, here we are!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u319	You are right, Mrs Ressiguier, that the presence of social assistants at universities can be useful, and even very useful, in informing students of the aids to which they are entitled and offering them a listening so that they can entrust the difficulties they encounter. As you said, the appropriations allocated to CROUS for their operating expenses have increased to enable the recruitment of sixty social workers to ensure a lasting strengthening of this service. It should also be stressed that the appropriations for action 03 Student health and associative, cultural and sporting activities of the programme 231 Student life has increased very strongly. They increased from EUR 60 million in 2021 to EUR 72 million in 2022. University health services have been key players in the student support package, notably under the Student Psychiatric Health Facility, which was maintained in 2022. Today, universities have signed agreements with 1,700 psychologists, allowing students to benefit from several consultations. I believe that the committee has not considered the amendment, but for all these reasons I am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u321	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u322	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1490.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u323	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 10 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u324	The identical amendments No 1443 Mrs Claudia Rouaux and Mr Christophe Naegelen's 1460 were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u325	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1477.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u326	This amendment proposes to provide 7 million for this year as part of a multi-year plan to renovate the French polar station Dumont-d'Urville. I recall that we have two stations in the territory of the South Pole, where we are among the seven nations that are possessed: Concordia we hold with the Italians, and Dumont-d'Urville we manage by ourselves. The latter station was built in the 1970s; It reaches the limits of old age, both by its physical organization and by what it has become after all these years. One might be surprised by an interest in such a distant subject. But it turns out that today the poles are humanity's advanced stations for observing climate change. This is particularly true in the case of the South Pole, since it is around it, which warms up six times faster than the rest of the planet, that the general climate conditions are radically changing. Second reason: it is a very important reserve of global biodiversity. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that this land is a geopolitical issue. Unfortunately – and once again – the French are not up to their responsibilities. You see, the Chinese are building their fifth base, the New Zealanders are putting as much money as possible, as well as the Germans. We, French, who have facilities on site and who are in our rights, do not make the necessary efforts to remain what we have been for decades: the first polar nation in terms of studies and publications in the world. That is why, Madam Minister, we believe that you will agree with us and understand the importance of this issue, both in its scientific and geopolitical dimension, and its interest in French science, which is the true subject of the power of our homeland. One more word: the climax is that it was the French who allowed the signature of the Madrid Protocol – at the time, it was Mr.Rocard who was pushing with all his strength – who consecrated Antarctica as a nature reserve. Now we would be below everything; This is not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u328	Several amendments concern two very similar subjects, the one which Mr Mélenchon has just developed and the one for the FTEs requested by the Paul-Émile Victor Institute (IPEV), a subject on which several of us have already spoken. In order to make it easier for us to do so and not to tire the House too much, I will therefore make one and the same answer for all the amendments, which will also give me the opportunity to defend in advance the amendment which I tabled, No 1420, aimed at creating five FTEs by 2022. As Mr. Mélenchon said, polar research in the Arctic and Antarctic is more essential than ever in the context of the tragedy of global warming. Of course, everyone remembers France's historical role in this area, alongside other powers that do not necessarily have great relations with the Arctic and Antarctic, but which, for various reasons – historical, almost geological even, or geopolitical – have invested in it. Many of us, from all groups in this House, have been made aware of this issue by many of our colleagues. I am thinking in particular of our colleague Jimmy Pahun, but also of the work of the OPECST chaired by Cédric Villani or of the information mission on the problem of poles led by Éric Girardin and Meyer Habib. We have heard from the Paul-Émile-Victor Institute and have met with the ambassador of the poles, Olivier Poivre d'Arvor, as well as representatives of the various ministries – notably the sea – and Matignon, since this is a deeply inter-ministerial issue. It is on this basis that similar amendments have found a sort of group-to-group echo. A plan to renovate the Dumont-d'Urville station is essential. Studies are needed, but it is probably several tens of millions of euros that will have to be mobilised. It was about starting the pump, if I may say so. We discussed this with the Minister of Research and her cabinet. In the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, last week she made two very strong commitments – although everyone can judge them as they please, we still have to take the step forward. First, 1 million euros will be mobilised as early as 2021...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u329	No, it's 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u330	... in order to initiate studies and, from the next three budgets – 2022, 2023, 2024 – a total of 7 million euros will make it possible to go in the direction you indicate, dear Jean-Luc Mélenchon. We have turned to the Paul-Émile Victor Institute, which is very satisfied with these decisions. In addition, the Minister has made a commitment that finds its translation in an amendment that I am the first signatory to – but others, including Jimmy Pahun, have tabled the same – and that provides for an additional five FTEs in addition to the two that have already been released. In view of the stakes you have indicated, we can say that the account is not there; in view of the need to send a signal, not only to the scientific community in France, but also to the international community, I consider this to be an important step forward. That is why I call for the withdrawal of all amendments on this subject, except for identical amendments Nos 1350, 1412 and 1420; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u332	No one here doubts the importance of the knowledge that can be acquired at both the North and South Poles. I would like to point out that the IPEV is not, in itself, a research organisation. It is a public interest grouping (PIG) that coordinates research missions at the North and South Poles and ensures that they are carried out properly. This is an absolutely essential mission. The research itself is carried out in a much wider way by all the universities and research organisations that are fortunate to have access to these environments, although extreme, but also very important for a better understanding of climate issues, but also for better observing space, for example. Indeed, before the Committee on Cultural Affairs, I made a commitment to mobilise EUR 1 million by 31 December 2021 and to launch the necessary funding for the renovation of the Dumont-d'Urville station. Concerning Concordia station, I had already made commitments with our Italian partners, after having exchanged with IPEV. This is something that is reasonable, in the sense that, in Dumont-d'Urville, we can only intervene a very small number of days a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u333	All the more reason not to miss them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u334	Then people are totally isolated. I will therefore also ask for the withdrawal of all amendments up to 1350 and identical, to which I will give a favourable opinion in order to include in the finance bill the commitments that I have made in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u335	Would you like to withdraw your amendment, Mr Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u336	I didn't understand why I should take it off. I note – of course, it is also a commitment on my part, if necessary – that we will mobilise 1 million to carry out the study and 7 million each year for three years...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u337	No, over three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u338	Okay, over three years. In any case, there will always be a way of allocating appropriations for another three years, let us leave to our successors the pleasure of this decision. In the meantime, if it's 1 million plus 7 million a year, we're in the profile...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u339	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u340	The Minister made signs of denial and, earlier, the Special Rapporteur approved. I understand: 1 million now, 7 more over three years. Could you confirm that, Madam Minister? It's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u341	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u342	It is a total of 7 million over three years, not 7 million per year for three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u343	You may proceed, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u344	Thank you, at least it's clear: it's not 7 million a year for three years; It's $7 million for three years. There, we do not agree because we need 7 million a year, not for three years, but for five years, because the need for funding is estimated at 40 million. Of course, I will not give you the bad grace not to vote for the extra million or the seven million for three years, but the account is not there. It's better, but it's far below what you need, because you can't build a half base or a third base. To upgrade the Dumont-d'Urville base, the cost is $40 million, not just $7 million or I don't know what. I will therefore maintain my amendments. It is very important for everyone to hear that the French are determined to live up to their responsibilities. Minister, we do not have the same assessment, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that $7 million over three years does not mean much. That's good, but what's it gonna do if $40 million is needed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u345	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1385, 1442 and 1459. Sophie Métadier, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No 1385 of the Committee on Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u346	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u347	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 1442.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u348	My amendment is in line with the perspective just set out by Jean-Luc Mélenchon. I have heard that we are going to release an additional 1 million and another 7 million over three years, but it is 40 million that are being requested. What you're announcing presents us with a number of difficulties. First of all, let us remember that COP26 will soon meet. In this context, what is the logic if we do not mobilize enough resources to renovate a station that has not been so since the 1970s and therefore pollutes the South Pole? In addition, a number of countries are mobilizing significant sums: 18 million for Italy, 53 million for Germany and 88 million for Australia. Again, the Paul-Émile Victor Institute needs $40 million to carry out this renovation; 7 million over three years, that won't be enough. My amendment is intended to fund seven additional posts for IPEV, as opposed to five for the Special Rapporteur. So I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u349	Mr Christophe Naegelen, in support of Amendment No. 1459, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u350	There's the bottom and the shape. In substance, we all remember the video conferencing organized a few weeks ago by Jimmy Pahun with researchers based in Earth Adelia. Before Meyer Habib succeeded me, I was the rapporteur of the information mission on the poles and I was therefore able to conduct numerous hearings. We agreed that it would take EUR 1 million to finance the different FTEs. So I come to the shape: it had been said "no question of cutting the pear in half, one asks for 1 million, that will be 1 million". We had received e-mails proposing to work together and to table amendments proposing to release this additional million, in order to show that this important subject was transparant. Finally, it is not 1 million but 500000 euros; The pear is well cut in half. Since the work had been undertaken in a trans-party manner, since the tabling of another amendment was envisaged to propose only half a million, it would have been preferable for national representation to show a little more solidarity and for all of us to be informed upstream, which has not been the case. To the extent that the IPEV has requested 1 million, I maintain my 1 million amendment, although I have heard that the answer would be negative in favour of a proposal by the Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u351	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1478.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u352	This is the endowment for the Paul-Émile-Victor Polar Institute. I would really like this House to appreciate the fact that these are derisory sums in terms of scientific and geopolitical issues. I say "geopolitics", when China is establishing its fifth station at the South Pole and when, at the North Pole, we are discussing kilometer per kilometre to know who owns each piece of ice there. We are talking about those who allow France to hold its rank, while we are on the limit of decommissioning. If the IPEV does not receive the reinforcement of the nation, putting on the table the money it needs, you will see an increase in a movement of departure of the researchers. IPEV coordinates the six French polar stations and organises the annual transhipment of tons of equipment for scientists and technicians. It must be given the means to function seriously. After saying that, I find it unreasonable to finish the discussion by cutting the pear in half, granting not 1 million but 500,000 euros. We don't care whether it's 500,000 euros or 1 million, because the question is what is needed. It takes 1 million to finance these seven jobs, which is what is needed. All the rest will be felt by scientists as a very bad way and a form of disinterest in the country for what they are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u353	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u354	We are not chipping on Lilliputian amounts given the stakes. In a moment, we will be considering amendments involving five FTEs, corresponding to a recurrent operation of EUR 500,000. We do not have the time here to take over the IPEV application nomenclature by post, let alone the dangling, but not all the posts correspond to research posts and are therefore not necessarily carried by the Ministry of Research. The only thing, dear President Mélenchon, for which I ask you to believe me, is that the five FTEs that will be included in the finance law if these amendments are voted on – certainly not seven but five – are the subject of an explicit agreement by Mr Chappellaz, Director of IPEV, who considers that this is an important step, in addition to the two posts already added.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u355	That's seven!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u356	So that's seven. We are not in apothecary accounts, we are looking for a solution that allows the IPEV to have the means, not necessarily maxima but median, to meet its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u357	On Amendments Nos 1350, 1412 and 1420, I am seized by the groups The Republic on the move and act together on a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1350, 1412 and 1420. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 1350.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u358	I am defending my colleague Jean-Charles Larsonneur's amendment. The Special Rapporteur has just described it, and it is a matter of bringing five FTEs to the IPEV. This is an amendment by the three groups of the majority. I give the floor to oceanic Jimmy Pahun to defend him with strength and conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u359	I call Mr Pahun to support Amendment No. 1412.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u360	Thank you, Minister, and to the attention of our colleagues that you are the first minister in office to go to Concordia Base to see the work of researchers and others who spend much of the year there. This important year for scientific research coincided with the fifty years of the Antarctic Treaty and the thirty years of the protocol signed in Madrid under the joint leadership of Michel Rocard and Bob Hawke. The reconstruction of the Dumont-d'Urville base is a necessity for France to at least agree with the Madrid Protocol. You're right, minister, it's a big effort from your department. Antarctica is a land of science, of diplomacy, at the crossroads of many ministries, that of the armies, because it is the armies that bring the material, that of the foreign affairs, that of the environment... Thank you for the effort you are making and which is very much appreciated by the IPEV. I would like to thank all those who helped us to defend this amendment, including Mr Larsonneur and Mr Coquerel. I have a special thought for you, Mr. Special Rapporteur Francis Chouat, because you have gone with me to the ministries to find out who really was a pilot at this institute, and another for my collaborator Thibaud Soret, who helped me to work on this amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The aim is to create five FTEs in addition to the two existing ones, which corresponds exactly to the request made by the Institute.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u361	Amendment No 1420 by Mr Francis Chouat, Special Rapporteur, is being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u362	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u363	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1350, 1412 and 1420.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u364	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 36 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u365	Identical amendments Nos. 1351 by Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, 1413 by Mr Jimmy Pahun and 1421 by Mr Francis Chouat, Special Rapporteur, are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u366	Amendment No 1427 by Mrs Albane Gaillot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u367	The amendment is satisfied, and therefore the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u368	Amendment No 1428 by Mrs Albane Gaillot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u369	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1496 and 1497, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u370	These are two modest amendments, at EUR 5 million, aimed at focusing on nuclear research. We are alerted, in particular by the Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA), to future work in this area and to the human resources that will be required. We need researchers to carry out the work, the extensions, the dismantling and the storage of waste. If we commit ourselves eventually to the construction of new reactors, we will also have enormous research efforts to carry out. That is why I propose in the first amendment to allocate EUR 5 million to the research mission in the fields of energy, development and sustainable mobility, and in particular nuclear energy. The second amendment, equal in amount, aims to strengthen research within the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety (IRSN). In both cases, it is EUR 5 million; This is obviously not enough for the work that we will have to carry out in the years to come on nuclear matters, but it is a start, which makes it possible to focus on the subject in this finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u371	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u372	Amendment No 1496 concerns Action 16 Nuclear energy research, which you would like to abound. This action is dedicated to the development of innovative solutions to improve the manoeuvrability, performance and safety of the current nuclear system. As a research funding programme, it does not provide any funding for staff dedicated to the maintenance and dismantling of nuclear infrastructure. Your amendment is therefore – without any particular judgment – inoperative and that is why I am against it. With regard to Amendment No 1497, the IRSN, through its position in the field of nuclear and radiological risk governance, identifies the research and development needs relating to nuclear safety and radiation protection issues, whether they be studies, final research or more fundamental work. In June 2021, the Court of Auditors found that the IRSN fulfils the tasks entrusted to it by the Environmental Code but also that its budgetary sustainability is to be restored. As Special Rapporteur, I will pay attention to the implementation of these recommendations. I also refer you to the Prime Minister's reply of October 2021 on the audit of the Court of Auditors. However, in 2022, the subsidy paid to the IRSN increased by €213,000 to compensate for the decrease in the return on the operator's tax on nuclear installations. Between 2020 and 2022, total planned resources increased from €272 million to €280 million, or an additional €8 million, mainly due to the funding provided by the Recovery Plan. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u374	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u375	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u376	The summary statement of Amendment No 1496 is broader because the gaps are global, but naturally it is a question of shifting funds towards research. I hear your arguments, but I really think that much more will have to be done. It had also been decided to create a university of nuclear research professions. It would be interesting to score. I therefore maintain these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u377	Amendment No 1445 by Mrs Valérie Rabault is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u378	Mr Christophe Naegelen, in support of Amendment No. 1462, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u379	Scolytes are a real problem in many forest massifs, especially in the Vosges, where spruces are affected. The aim of the amendment is to provide additional funds for research. The French authorities are very demanding in terms of heat treatment, which makes exports very expensive. We need to help our wood industry. I do not like comparisons with other countries, but it must be recognised that this sector is less helpful for us than for Germany. The amendment is simple: I propose EUR 2 million for research aid in the fight against scolytes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u380	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u381	On this issue, which I have already mentioned last year, I would like to point out at the outset that the measures to support the scolytes crisis – everyone here knows what we are talking about – are being financed from the Strategic Forest and Timber Fund under programme 149 of the Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs Mission, whose allocation increases by €2.5 million between 2021 and 2022. In 2019, the Minister of Agriculture and Food announced the establishment of an exceptional support plan with €16 million to assist in the exploitation and marketing of Scolyte timber, and the rebuilding of stands. For these and other reasons, bearing in mind that INRAE is also heavily invested in this issue and that its funding is increasing by more than EUR 20 million between 2021 and 2022, which should logically benefit in part from research on scolytes, I propose that you withdraw the amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u382	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u383	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u384	Mr Naegelen, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u385	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u386	On the appropriations of the Research and Higher Education mission, I am seized by the group La France insubmission of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1472.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u387	It aims to strengthen agricultural research to identify new products as a healthy, sustainable and effective alternative to plant protection products, pesticides and neonicotinoids.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u388	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u389	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u390	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u391	Also unfavorable, because we are already funding this research as part of the Ecophyto I and II plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u392	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1489.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u393	40 kilometres west of Paris, the State and the Ministry of Agriculture have a site, the domain of Winterval-Grignon, occupied by AgroParisTech, one of the largest French public schools, on 291 hectares, including 120 agricultural land. This site at the service of agronomic research and experimentation, if necessary, is in the process of being bought by real estate developers. Is it well-coordinated to sell this site when the Government claims to want to prevent the artificialization of soil and the preservation of agricultural land and biodiversity shelters should be the priority? Moreover, the surface that will be dedicated, as a consolation lot, to AgroParisTech – 4.2 hectares on the Saclay plateau – will be largely insufficient to carry out real agronomic experiments, however necessary. How do I understand this sale? For all these reasons, and in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, if they are still viable, we propose to include a new line, which will put an end to the proposed sale of this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u394	On Amendment No 1489, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The request came to me late, just before you spoke, dear colleague. I have not interrupted you, but, with your consent, we will not comply with the five-minute deadline. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u395	I did not understand the meaning of this amendment, which was presented as an appeal amendment. Is it a matter of stopping the establishment of AgroParisTech in Paris-Saclay or only of drawing our attention to the situation of Grignon – which I knew very well when I was a child, because my father was a cadastre surveyor, we lived in Poissy and we were going to use fruits and vegetables at Grignon's farm in the 1960s.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u396	Wow!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u397	I'm closing this parenthesis. The proposed sale of the Grignon site is in the context of the establishment of AgroParisTech on the Saclay plateau, scheduled from the first half of 2022 and which will allow this establishment to join – who could be opposed to it? – a world-class university and research centre, thus strengthening its position as a global reference centre for life sciences. This undisputed, undisputed decision is an opportunity for research, for students as well as for the researchers and professors of the site. The question arises of the future of the historic site of Grignon, which, I recall, is broken down into three parts: the agricultural areas, for 130 hectares, the forest, for 130 hectares as well, and the school part, which occupies the rest. Because of the move to the Saclay site for the reasons I have just mentioned, it is not possible to keep the school part on the Grignon site without its researchers. On the other hand, it is planned that the agricultural areas will always be usable in their integrity and in their entirety by AgroParisTech, the forest to be taken over, as the departmental council of Yvelines has informed all those who responded to the call for projects, by the department. However, disputes remain, particularly around the issue raised by the commune of Grignon and the community of communes surrounding it, of compliance with the local planning plan, or PLU. In the absence of a consensus on the use of the school part, of about 24 hectares, the State real estate management decided to postpone the signing of the promise of sale until 31 December 2021, hoping that this new deadline would enable an agreement to be reached on the destination of the land. Your appeal amendment, Mrs Rubin, allows me to make that point. It is not a matter of deciding instead of those who have to negotiate, but of ensuring that discussion and consultation continue. That is why I am asking you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u398	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u399	Madam Member, since you are very attentive to the future of this site, you will certainly have seen that the Government has suspended the sale process of the Grignon site and that it has opened a procedure of consultation with the local authorities, under the auspices of the Prefect of the Yvelines, to define the conditions for a modification of the PLU. The Government does not intend to question the principle of the sale of the area of Grignon, but the consultation must be an opportunity to review the project in order to meet the expectations of the communities and to ensure that it takes into account all the issues relating to the artificialization and maintenance of agricultural research. I therefore confirm that the Government has not changed its position on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u400	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u401	What frightens me is precisely that the Government has not changed its mind. I would remind the Special Rapporteur that it is indeed a matter of putting an end to the proposed sale, and not of making compromises on the LRP with local and regional authorities in order to develop more or less artificialisation. Indeed, we do not want artificialization. You were asking who was against this project? All the students, that the project to join the great center of Saclay does not pack.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u402	So they're not going to Paris-Saclay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u403	We maintain our amendment at all costs. We do not know what will happen with this developer and the local authorities – it is precisely the great danger of this sale to a real estate developer! It doesn't seem to move the world in the majority! Maybe they're getting ready for Halloween...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u404	I put to the vote Amendment No 1489.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u405	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 30 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 6 Against 24
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u406	Amendment No 1463 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u407	The next speaker is Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur, in support of Amendments Nos 833 and 832 which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u408	The GANIL, or Large National Heavy Ion Accelerator, located in Caen, is a very large research infrastructure specialized in nuclear physics, particle physics and astrophysics. After ten years of work, a new particle accelerator, SPIRAL2 – the second experiment of the Online Radioactive Ion Production System –, the first equipment of this size, built by the CEA and CNRS teams, started in 2019, complementing the historical equipment. In 2011, when SPIRAL2 was activated, the GANIL teams had 255 people and the studies predicted that at the time of its deployment, ten years later, an additional 30 FTEs would be required. Today, ten years later, they are not thirty more, but ten less, which completely reduces the initial scientific ambition, industrial applications and accelerator time available to users. Above all, this creates great difficulties for a very committed and dedicated staff, who did not have the habit of strike in their history, but who were led there last June, for a very follow-up movement. Ten days ago, an end-of-conflict protocol was signed by the Inter-union, which includes the submission of a multi-year hiring plan in early 2022. With these amendments, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you for the utmost attention and vigilance to ensure that the commitments of the CEA and the CNRS to GANIL are respected at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u410	Disadvantaged, if at least my Special Rapporteur maintains these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u412	You recalled, Mr rapporteur, that GANIL is a very large research infrastructure in the field of nuclear physics and astrophysics. It has been and remains recognized as a very important infrastructure in the national strategic landscape. I welcome the fact that a memorandum of understanding was signed on 15 October between the management of GANIL and that of its trustees, the CEA and the CNRS, and the trade unions to put an end to the social movement concerning the claims of staff. The total number of CEA employees present at GANIL, i.e. 108 permanent full-time equivalents as at 31 December, will be increased to 111 permanent FTEs by mid-2022, and the CNRS is committed to increasing the number of technical staff to two permanent posts, bringing the total number of CNRS technical staff present at GANIL from 100 to 102 permanent in 2022, excluding researchers. It is therefore five additional positions that are created at GANIL and will be added to the replacement of all planned departures due to retirement or change of assignment, without the need to change the PLF 2022. I will, of course, ensure that the agreement reached is respected and that the means are put in place. I particularly thank you, Mr Le Vigoureux, for your involvement in this matter. However, in view of these elements, I would ask you to withdraw these amendments, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u413	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments. I put to the vote the appropriations of the research and higher education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u414	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 28 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u415	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to State advice and control (No 4524, vol. III, annex 9), public authorities (No 4524, vol. III, annex 31) and the direction of action of the Government and the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information" (No 4524, vol. III, annex 14). Mr Daniel Labaronne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u416	With a decrease of 3.6% in commitment authorities, reaching €713.6 million, but an increase of 4.9% in payment appropriations to reach €753.9 million, the amounts entered in the 2022 finance bill under the State Council and Control Mission give the means of their missions to institutions essential to our democracy. Funding under the 165 Council of State and other administrative jurisdictions program decreased by 5.9% in EA and increased by 6.5% in CP. Excluding Title 2, the decrease in EAs is 37%; It is mainly due to the absence of lease renewals or major leases in 2022, while CPs increased by 22.5 per cent as a result of real property expenditures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u417	If there's any left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u418	Title 2 expenditures increased by 2.9%, both in EA and CP. In 2022, the administrative courts received forty new jobs in the face of an increase in litigation. Indeed, after an atypical year 2020, this increase continues, particularly as a result of the explosion of the litigation of foreigners. The administrative courts are now even seized because of the failure to get an appointment in the prefecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u419	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u420	I consider – this is the first cause for concern for me, and I will have others – that this case should be simplified, in particular by implementing the twenty proposals put forward for this purpose by the Council of State. For other reasons, which are due to a decision of the Constitutional Council and to the paid parking arrangements of certain municipalities, notably Paris, the specialised court of the Commission for the Litigation of Paid Parking is also experiencing a staggering increase in the number of appeals before it. However, for the time being – and this is a second cause for concern – the bill that I have tabled to remedy the current congestion has not prospered. It is only more urgent for the Government to address the problem. I welcome the stability of the appropriations for programme 126, which finance the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC), the reform of which has just entered into force and which is embarking on a new mandate. In the coming years, it will be necessary to ensure that it has the necessary resources to carry out its new missions. The reduction of fifty-eight members, starting on 30 March, already allows for a substantial saving of EUR 2.2 million, which finances the first operating expenditure as a result of the reform of this institution. A third cause for concern is the lack of certification of the EESC's accounts, but I welcome the fact that the third chamber of our Republic is finally making progress on this certification. An audit will be carried out, under the responsibility of a master adviser to the Court of Auditors, with the support of a specialised firm chosen by the EESC. A certification report will be sent to the first President of the Court of Auditors by the EESC President to help form the opinion of the Court of Auditors. This will be made explicit in the certificate attached to the proposed Regulations. It seems technical, but this is important. This procedure is similar to that for the certification of the Constitutional Council's accounts. It would have taken a long time to obtain the EESC's accounts. My fourth concern, and I am particularly concerned about this point, is the lack of use of the Chorus software package, which is not unrelated to the problems of the readability of the budget information that I still deplored in the report I drafted in the context of the last Spring of the evaluation. Similarly, and this is a fifth cause for concern, I regret the fact that the EESC, like last year, did not send me a reply to the budget questionnaire sent in July at the end of the deadline laid down in Article 49 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, i.e. no later than 10 October. I modestly hope that the third chamber of the Republic will respect the prerogatives of the first chamber. The appropriations for the 164 Court of Auditors and other financial courts programme are relatively stable. I welcome the significant reduction in the length of the judgement period: between 2019 and 2020, it increased from 12.3 months to 10.8 months in the scope of the accounts under the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. My sixth and final concern is the further increase in appropriations requested for the 340 High Council for Public Finance. Last year, these appropriations more than doubled – it is true that the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP) requested their threefold. Now, a further 24% increase in Title 2 appropriations would be necessary. It is apparently a question of funding the recruitment of three rapporteurs which I do not think is justified. I have therefore tabled an amendment aimed at reducing the amount of Title 2 appropriations for the 340 programme to its level in the original 2021 finance law. That being so, and notwithstanding the six concerns I have raised, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations for the Council and State Control mission. I will conclude by thanking the administrator of the National Assembly who helped me write this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u421	Mr Christophe Naegelen, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u422	Our colleague Labaronne concluded by thanking the administrator of the National Assembly and I will begin by thanking Claire Gloaguen, the administrator who also helped me write my report. The Public Authorities mission concerns the budgets of the National Assembly, the Senate, the Presidency of the Republic, the Parliamentary Channel (LCP), the Constitutional Council and the Court of Justice of the Republic. As you know, there is a certain habit that the rapporteur of the Senate should look after the accounts of the Senate. I will therefore be very brief on this point, preferring to concentrate on those of the National Assembly, the Presidency of the Republic, the Constitutional Council and the Court of Justice of the Republic, as well as LCP. Let's start with our parliamentary channels, LCP and Public Senate. For two years now, and even before, I have been advocating the rapprochement of these two channels, their mutualization for several reasons, and firstly because those who watch television do not understand why we are changing along the way, and secondly because it would allow us to achieve substantial savings and to offer a common, clear and precise programme. It is a pity that personal ambitions or visions sometimes obstruct a common vision and ambition that would be beneficial. The budget of the Presidency of the Republic is slightly reduced. The services have told us that since the beginning of 2021 they have redeployed unconsumed credits from the presidential travel envelope to capital expenditure. During the crisis of the covid, the Presidency of the Republic, like all the institutions, had difficulty moving. As a result, some meetings were held via videoconference, resulting in substantial savings. For example, the cost of a trip to the UN General Assembly is EUR 900000. Although it is understood that it is important to visit the country in the context of diplomatic relations, the videoconference meeting has resulted in substantial savings during this somewhat complicated year. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I will let my colleague in the Senate explain the 4.64 per cent increase in the Senate budget. The Court of Justice of the Republic has seen a drastic increase in the number of complaints. Since its establishment in 1993, the institution had received approximately 16,000 complaints. But this year alone, it has more than 20,000. It has therefore registered more complaints in one year than since its creation, leading to a normal increase in the budget due to the sending of letters recommended to complainants, certain expertise, etc. On the other hand, there is no increase in the number of full-time equivalents because the staff who are at the Court of Justice are made available by the Court of Cassation. It is therefore the latter which is responsible for the financing of these FTEs. The budget of the Constitutional Council is also on the increase, as the year 2022 will be a year of presidential and legislative elections. With regard to the presidential election, it is necessary to verify sponsorships, which justifies an increase in the budget, and a platform available to our citizens will be deployed on the priority issue of constitutionality. The National Assembly will also see some increase in its appropriations as a result of its renewal. The termination of employees' contracts will result in additional costs. The National Assembly, which has averaged over the last 30 years, is based on a 50 per cent renewal of its membership. In conclusion, after a little contextualizing the request, I invite you to adopt the appropriations of the Public Authorities mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u423	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u424	I want to begin by thanking the National Assembly Administrator who accompanied me during this term and whose skills and experience have been invaluable to me. The appropriations of the Government's Directorate of Action mission amount to €960 million in payment appropriations for 2022. These appropriations are EUR 102 million higher than in 2021 due to the organisation of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union (EUPF) in 2022. The total cost of the Presidency will be EUR 149 million, slightly lower than the cost of the 2008 French Presidency, but still high. For my part, I hope that the organisation of the Presidency will be carried out in the best possible conditions and that the management of expenditure will be exemplary. Otherwise, trust in the European institutions would still be affected. The centralisation of the appropriations allocated to the organisation of this event on programme 359 is useful in that it will enable better monitoring of budget implementation. However, it will be imperative to monitor the use of these same appropriations by departments that will manage them finely. As in 2008, the calendar will be dense: nearly 400 events are planned. At the previous EUFP, the Court of Auditors had noted the difficulties posed by the excessive number of events, their late organisation and the additional costs caused by their relative unrepair. Lessons should be learned from this experience. The General Secretariat of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union has decided to reserve 10% of the appropriations allocated to the Presidency in addition to the reserve of 4% usually set up at the beginning of management. It justifies this choice by the need to allow the elected authorities in May 2022 the freedom to organize additional demonstrations and to deal with any unforeseen events. I consider that this choice raises questions about budgetary sincerity...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u425	For the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u426	... and paves the way for the organization of insufficiently prepared events. Finally, 20 per cent of the Presidency's appropriations will be allocated to events to be held in the presence of the President of the Republic. In this respect, gender should not be mixed and the electoral campaign for the presidential election of the PPUE should be distinguished. While the Secretariat-General is attentive to this issue, we know that reality can be complex. The 129 programme will have €740 million in 2022. These resources are increasing and will increase the staffing of the General Secretariat for Security and National Defence (SGDSN) by ninety-four full-time equivalents. Of these, twenty-five will be allocated to the services of vigilance and protection against digital interference – the government agency Viginum – primarily responsible for combating information manipulation operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u427	Pegasus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u428	The year 2022 will be marked by the creation of the interdepartmental delegation to the senior management of the State (DIESE), with 23 jobs. After the High Climate Council (HCC) and the High Commission on the Plan (HCP), this new entity demonstrates that the attempt to rationalize the small structures attached to the Prime Minister has not been successful: without a reduction in their number, we are rather witnessing their renewal... The budget allocated to the Government Information Service (GIS) will amount to EUR 14.1 million as last year. In 2021, IMIS benefited from transfers and transfers of appropriations from other ministries amounting to EUR 30 million: EUR 10.7 million was allocated to finance communication operations on the recovery plan. I consider that these expenses are too high and that this practice undermines the readability of the budget. On programme 308, the Autorité de régulation de la communication audiovisuel et numérique (ARCOM) will be created following the merger between the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA) and the Haute Autorité pour la diffusion des oeuvres et la protection des droits sur internet (HADOPI). This merger will not allow any savings, since in addition to the two budgets of the old structures, the new authority will benefit from a new measure amounting to EUR 0.9 million. Moreover, in order to cope with the influx of complaints and the increasing complexity of the files, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL) will experiment in 2022 with a procedure for outsourcing certain simple complaints – which still represent one third of the complaints lodged each year after the institution. The implementation of this initiative deserves our full attention. Finally, the annex budget Official publications and administrative information, which will have EUR 149.5 million in 2022, foresees a new surplus of EUR 14.5 million. I am in favour of adopting this annex budget alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u429	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1039.u430	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Following the review of the appropriations of the missions State Council and Control, Public Authorities and Directorate of Government Action, and the budget annex Official publications and administrative information. The meeting is adjourned.
