ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u1	The next item is the final reading of the draft law on the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence (adopted No. 646).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u2	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u3	I have the honour, on behalf of the Government, to defend, on final reading, the draft law on the prevention of acts of terrorism and intelligence. It is an honour, as the Government has demonstrated its determination to provide effective legal mechanisms to support their missions – to monitor targeted individuals and to detect new threats that would not yet be known to perpetrators and modus operandi, among others. Reconciling human beings, technology and ethics: this is the objective set by the Government in this text, and this is the threefold requirement that the Government intends to meet. It is intended to be human, as it focuses on profiles requiring increased vigilance: individuals released from prison convicted of terrorism, individuals with a so-called disturbed psychological profile, individuals who are increasingly resorting to applications other than conventional telephone communications, etc. It is in line with technological developments as it adapts intelligence techniques to the changing behaviour of threat-carrying individuals and complements them to meet new needs. It is ethical, because the measures it perpetuates, introduces or modifies are, each time, surrounded by strengthened guarantees, with strict respect for individual freedoms. Let me once again welcome the quality of the exchanges we have had, as well as the constant support that the members of the Law Committee and the Parliamentary delegation to intelligence (DPR) have given us. The failure of the Joint Joint Committee (JC), following a continuing disagreement with the Senate on the modalities for the follow-up of prisoners convicted of terrorism, must not forget the broad consensus on the vast majority of the mechanisms provided for in the text; We can welcome this – I am thinking in particular of the sustainability of the so-called algorithm technique and its extension to URLs, satellite interception, exchanges between intelligence services and with administrations, or research and development. On the other hand, the Government strongly reaffirms that the Senate's proposal for the follow-up of prisoners convicted of terrorism presented a twofold challenge: operational fragility and constitutional fragility. The experience of recent years allows us to state that placing under individual measures of administrative control and supervision (MICAS) is a particularly useful and appropriate tool for these profiles: it facilitates the supervision of individuals leaving prison, allows us to observe their usual relationships, their religious practice, their activities on social networks, their possible reintegration efforts, etc., while full-time physical or technical supervision would prove difficult – it would require important human resources, and would probably be less effective. For these high-risk profiles, the 12-month limit for MICAS is inadequate: nineteen MICAS have thus expired since 2017, even though the services can justify the persistent threat posed by the behaviour of the individuals concerned. That is why the Government's draft, voted by the National Assembly – I thank him for this – provides, under strictly regulated conditions, for the extension of the duration of MICAS to two years. I repeat, this extension is framed by strong guarantees, which make it possible to secure the measure both operationally and constitutionally. Thus, an MICAS may be extended for up to 24 months only against individuals convicted of terrorist offences to at least five years in detention, or to at least three years in case of recidivism. After 12 months, the renewal of the measure will be subject to the appearance of new or additional elements in the files of the parties concerned. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In 2018, the Constitutional Council, it is true, made the 12-month limitation one of the elements of the assessment of the constitutionality of MICAS. However, he expressed his opinion on a different and far wider population than the one covered by the Government's amendment: his opinion concerned, in general, persons presenting so-called proven signs of radicalization, including those who had not been subjected to the act and had therefore not been subject to judicialization. The bill aims at very different profiles. An extension of the duration of MICAS, coupled with the creation of a judicial follow-up measure, rehabilitation and prevention of recidivism: this is the coherent bloc defended by the Government, expressing renewed thought and support to women and men who are fighting on a daily basis against a terrorist threat that has become protective, and to which we offer strengthened legal tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u4	Mr Raphaël Gauvain, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u5	Unsurprisingly, the Senate maintained its position on articles 3 and 5 of the draft law on the supervision of the release from prison of persons convicted of terrorist acts. We have had this debate for almost a year. Our observation converges with that of the Senate, and joins that of all the actors in the fight against terrorism: intelligence services, magistrates, officials of the prison administration... All of us, for the past year and a half, have been alerting us to the 150 to 200 prisoners convicted of terrorist acts in the early 2010s who will be released from prison in the coming months or years: paradoxically, they will not be subjected to surveillance and control measures on their release, while they still present extremely worrying profiles. The legislator must therefore intervene: we must fill this gap and introduce security measures. How do I do this? Our response diverges from that of the Senate: when the Senate considers that it is necessary to apply exclusively judicial measures,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u6	The Senate is wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u7	... we think the opposite – I think I am expressing here the opinion not only of the majority groups, but also of certain opposition groups. Our Assembly considers that, in the area of surveillance, in order to implement measures such as the marking in police stations and gendarmerie, the prohibitions to appear in certain places, or the obligations to declare his residence and to report his movements outside the department, priority should be given to administrative measures taken directly and immediately by the prefect and subsequently subject to control by the administrative courts. The reason is simple: it is neither ideological nor philosophical, but operational – the minister delegate has just recalled it. This is how the intelligence services have been working since the Bataclan attacks in 2015; that is how they have worked under the state of emergency; and that is how they have been working since the entry into force of the law of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as SILT law; They ask us to maintain this functioning, and we do not want to destabilize them. I therefore propose to maintain our position in Article 3: concerning only prisoners released from prison convicted of terrorist acts, the administrative authority will have the possibility to extend the duration of MICAS from 12 to 24 months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] A constitutional question naturally arises – whether we resort to a judicial measure, as the Senate would like, or whether we favour an exclusively administrative measure, as the Assembly wants. In the light of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, in particular the decision it made last August – as you mentioned, Madam Minister Delegate – we consider that the measure of Article 3 offers a perfect balance between the preservation of security in the face of the terrorist threat and the preservation of individual freedoms – with the common focus of the Senate and the Assembly, the protection of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u8	Mr Loïc Kervran, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u9	As we begin the final reading of this bill, and having devoted most of my interventions to the substance of the text, I would like to refer to the process that has allowed us to succeed. Talleyrand said: "Our assemblies are tumultuous... And what if the decrees that emanate from it are wise? The tumult, if it was present last night and this morning on another piece of legislation, has hardly marked the consideration of the draft law on the prevention of acts of terrorism and intelligence. Rather, the process was characterized by wisdom – so the original bill was good, and we conducted quality debate and work. If the bill was good, it was – without denying the merit of the Government – that it included many recommendations from the parliamentary proceedings: on the one hand, from the fact-finding mission on the assessment of the law of 24 July 2015 on intelligence, chaired by Guillaume Larrivé, and of which Jean-Michel Mis was the co-rapporteur at my side – his recommendations concerning the algorithm, in particular, were repeated; On the other hand, the RPD, whose recommendations regarding the extension of its powers have also been followed. This beautiful result combines several ingredients: first of all, the transparency of our work, within the mission of information as well as the RPD; then, the registration in the duration. Far from being a piece of legislation, this bill is the result of several years of work – I salute you, the minister in charge, as well as the minister of the interior, for holding this position despite the pressure of public opinion. Finally, it is the fruit of the virtuous circle implemented by our assemblies: legislative production gives rise to evaluation and control, the results of which make it possible to correct the legislative production. It is this operation that enables us today to reach a balanced text. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my group, to act together, and the other groups of the majority, as well as the Chair of the Committee on Laws, for having trusted me in appointing me rapporteur for this text. I also thank all the political groups for these high-quality, calm, demanding and precise debates. Finally, I would like to salute the administrators of the Law Committee, Lucas Fournier and François Petaux, who assisted Raphaël Gauvain and myself throughout this work, as well as my parliamentary team and the collaborators of the groups, Simon Bernard and Cécile Charière, who contributed to this beautiful work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and Dem groups]] We have managed to maintain a balance between the protection of public freedoms and the preservation of the security of the French. In this respect, the bill is in the tradition of the French Parliament's legislation on intelligence. We owed the intelligence officers, who protect us and sometimes give their lives for us, as well as the French who listen to us, debates and a quality piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u10	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u11	I once again defend, on behalf of my group, a motion to reject this text in advance, to which we are opposed. It has two components. The first, which I will mention only quickly, since I have already spoken at length about it, concerns only anti-terrorism. It includes provisions relating to MICAS which, in our view, are disproportionate and violate individual freedoms. We prefer judicial measures, although more procedurally binding, but more protective of the rule of law and of the fundamental rights that characterize our political regime, that of a Democratic Republic. In the same vein, we oppose and will continue to oppose the security measures that were censored for the first time by the Constitutional Council. It is above all on the second part that I shall dwell on, relating to intelligence techniques. These may be useful in the fight against terrorism, but are not necessarily used for that purpose. Perhaps some had not paid attention to it, but that is the reality. But it turns out that for less than a week, we have had some overwhelming revelations about the employment, by several states, of the famous software Pegasus, spy software developed by the Israeli company NSO Group, to monitor journalists, lawyers, politicians in different countries of the world. No less than 1000 French would be concerned – you have discovered it just like me – including my comrade Adrien Quatennens here. According to the newspaper Le Monde, it is possible, thanks to this software, to infect a phone without any action on the part of its user – like clicking on a link – being necessary. The infection is therefore totally undetectable. WhatsApp engineers discovered this. They had confirmation that NSO Group had infected more than 1,400 email application user accounts. The software allows access to all the functions of the phone, as if the person who uses it was the user: it is possible to use the microphone, the camera, and to go to any application, including encrypted messaging, to read the messages. On this scandal – since it is one – we will not learn much from the Government. That is why I would like to ask the minister delegate, knowing that on the well-known list of the 1000 French targeted as potential targets – even if I don't know if her phone has actually been infected – there is someone she knows before: Minister Gérald Darmanin. All this is a little troubling, disappointing and I will even say icy. It appears that the Head of State, Emmanuel Macron, is on this list. We are told that an exceptional defence counsel will be convened on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u12	It happened this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u13	I assume that the parliamentary intelligence delegation is also seized. NSO Group claims that the Head of State was not tapped. But in reality, it is not this company, established in Israel, that is supposed to have access to data resulting from surveillance and espionage, but its customers, that is, third States. The result is an imbroglio which leads to many questions: some accuse Morocco, others say that this country has mainly served as an intermediary. Would it have been for the benefit of our own intelligence services, to whom the law a priori forbids the use of these techniques? This case therefore raises again the question of intelligence techniques and what we are told. Earlier, Mr Kervran, you spoke about the accuracy of our debates. It is true that we have asked you at length about the functioning of VPNs, virtual private networks. Did the new black box algorithm allow us to bypass it? You refused to answer, not to give terrorists information about what to do or not to do. But now, the whole world knows that Pegasus allows you to break into any phone and watch everything. So, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u14	Thank you for closing, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I conclude, Mr. President. This text does not provide for the protection of our own citizens, even when it comes to the Head of State, the Government or our political leaders. This should challenge our colleagues sitting on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u16	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u17	I did not intend to intervene, but this motion for a preliminary rejection gives me the opportunity to state that, in the eyes of Members of the Socialist and related Group, this text may prove ineffective in the fight against terrorism, while at the same time undermining our fundamental freedoms. That is why we will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u18	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u19	[[Ms. Dominique David applauds]] Mr. Bernalicis, it was not only on this bill that you defended a motion of rejection: your group has tabled it on all the texts that we have been debating since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u20	No, not on the bioethics bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u21	You are systematically refusing to debate in the Chamber. You have offered yourself a forum, not to talk about intelligence or the fight against terrorism, but to talk about Pegasus. However, the rapporteurs have demonstrated at first reading how useful some tools are to prevent terrorist attacks. But as the example of the bill on the management of the health crisis shows, even when it comes to dealing with the most serious threats to the French, you continue to table procedural motions. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u22	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u23	Unsurprisingly, the extreme left melenchonist...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u24	...criminal, terrorist...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u25	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups and on several benches of the Dem group]] ...proposes a motion for the disarmament of the nation. It is quite obvious that the Republican Group will vote against it. As we have demonstrated throughout the legislature, we are convinced that it is necessary to strengthen our legal and technological instruments devoted to intelligence, in the continuity of what had already been undertaken almost ten years ago under the quinquennium of President Sarkozy, then consolidated while Manuel Valls was Prime Minister, and in the continuity of the efforts undertaken during this legislature. In fact, it is quite rare for public policy to show such consistency and consistency. I think all those who, like us on these benches, love the state and the nation will satisfy themselves. That is why we will reject this motion and that all reasonable members on our benches will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u26	There are three of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u27	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u28	The Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion to reject it. Terrorism is a real and serious threat to our country. It is therefore essential to be able to legislate on the subject. As the rapporteur said earlier, this text is balanced and will provide concrete answers to the difficulties encountered. We want it to be definitively adopted to give us perspective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u29	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u30	Of course, in the continuity of the words of my excellent colleague Guillaume Larrivé, the IDU and independent group will vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection proposed by the extreme left. Mr Bernalicis obviously talks, like his leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon this morning, about this famous software Pegasus and the Israeli company NSO Group. Of course, it is extremely serious that the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have been listened to. But it is also very important to have software of this quality! It turns out that Israelis are among the best in the world in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u31	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u32	By the way, I remind you that it was thanks to this kind of software that the Israelis were able to provide our services with information that helped prevent a potentially deadly attack in Villepinte prepared by Iranians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u33	How come you're aware of this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u34	In Belgium, an Iranian diplomat was sentenced to prison for these acts. It is good that there are Rafals, Kalashnikovs, weapons of war, as long as they are well used. It is the same for this kind of software: it is a good thing that they exist if they are used by states against terrorists. The question is under what conditions Pegasus was used, and by whom. That's the purpose of the defence counsel meeting this morning. All necessary measures must be taken to prevent the President of the Republic, who is also the head of the armed forces, from being spied on. But the existence of high-performance software shows that some countries are performing well, and fortunately that they exist if they allow us to break our enemies – because that's what we're interested in today. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group – Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] I am thinking of these 273 victims of Islamist terrorism in France, of these thousands of families, these hundreds of orphans. If only one of our amendments, only one of our laws can allow a single Frenchman not to be killed, then they must be voted on. Madam Deputy Minister, you have done well to introduce this excellent bill that the IUD-I Group will vote almost unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u35	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u36	Our group, Mr President, is quite divided on this text: if it is not without risk to our freedoms, it has the advantage of better regulating the activities of the intelligence services. This is a bit the problem of such laws, some of which we like and others less. Against the poison of terrorism, the power of the state can be the antidote, but sometimes the antidote can also make sick, some cases have shown it. Not to mention Rainbow Warrior, we have seen that the state is not always completely clear. For my part, I believe in the balance between the powers, the legislature controlling the executive. I am not naive: those who have power generally use it to serve their own interests, even in certain services. If I believe in surveillance, I also believe that when you show naivety, it's always to your own detriment. We are therefore quite cautious about this law: some of us will vote for it, but most will abstain and some will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u37	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u38	We are going to vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand because if we agree to strengthen the means of combating terrorism, as far as intelligence is concerned, Mr Ugo Bernalicis has just provided us with new information, particularly with regard to the listening that the media has just revealed. It is still tragic for a country that must have all the information possible to combat terrorist acts, not to be able to protect itself from these intelligence operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u39	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u40	I hear that my colleague Bernalicis is being criticized for taking advantage of the defence of a motion to reject this anti-terrorism text to refer to the recent revelations by the consortium of journalists Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International about the use of the famous Pegasus software. But it is precisely in the name of the fight against terrorism and crime that this software is sold to unscrupulous states in respect of human rights! Others tell us: "You are wrong to question Israel," but we also know that this Israeli company only acts with the approval of the Israeli government, its clients being not any individual...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u41	They're states!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u42	...but states or government agencies. With this cascade of revelations, we recently learned that the head of state, ministers, politicians, activists, activists were being listened to – I discovered in the press that this was my case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u43	It's the beginning of fame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u44	[[Exclaims on several banks of the Dem Group]] The mutism of the Prime Minister, questioned on this subject during the last question-and-answer session in the Government before the summer break and during his television address yesterday, leaves me at least pantois, even worried. We are told that it is Morocco that would have entered the numbers of 1000 French, of which I am part with the Head of State and others, into a database. For what and on whose behalf? That is the question, because we know that in the case of espionage, there are sometimes subcontracting links. [[Same movements]] Madam Deputy Minister, since it is possible for you at this time to speak, I take this opportunity to try one last time before the end of our work to get answers to a few simple questions: was the state aware? If that is the case, it is serious. Otherwise, it is just as serious: how can we imagine journalists being informed of the massive espionage of our politicians when the state is not? What are you planning on doing now? No government department contacted me. What is planned to carry out the checks that our protection requires? What treatment will be given to States that have fraudulently used this software?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u45	You should vote in favour of the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u46	I'd like you, please, to provide answers to these few questions, and I think that's the least I can ask.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u47	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u48	I will be brief, Mr President, because we still have a lot of work to do. Of course, we will vote against this rejection motion and I regret that we have been so far away from the subject that concerns us...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u49	This is the second part of the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u50	... since it is still a text that aims to protect our fellow citizens...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u51	Precisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u52	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...of terrorism. It is a major text and I will explain in the general debate why it is important to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u53	In the general debate, Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u54	According to the National Intelligence Coordinator, 500 detainees are currently serving a prison sentence for terrorism in France, of which about 100 are expected to be released in the next two years. In addition, 900 prisoners of common law have been radicalised. It is therefore necessary and justified to take measures to prevent recidivism and to combat the terrorist threat. This bill consists of two separate parts, one to sustain and strengthen the provisions of the 2017 SILT Act, the other to revise the 2015 Intelligence Act. We wish to express once again our astonishment at the choice of the Government to bring these two parts together, especially since it is not only the position of our group, but also that of the Senate, which differs according to the text, as evidenced by the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. We are in fact very reserved regarding the perpetration and aggravation of the SILT law, which little data seems to justify. The sustainability of the SILT law constitutes an integration into the common law of emergency measures of the state of emergency, which the Freedom and Territory Group has always opposed, and for my part since 2016. The failure of the Joint Joint Committee is mainly due to Senators' refusal to accept the extension of the system of individual administrative control and supervision measures to 24 months. We can only follow the Senate, which you should have listened to on this point. The extension of the duration of MICAS to two years gives a totally disproportionate power to the administrative authority, to the detriment of the judicial judge. Moreover, the Council of State considers in its opinion that the measure poses constitutional difficulties, without its effectiveness being sufficiently established. The Constitutional Council had requested that the duration of MICAS be limited to a maximum of 12 months. All the less, we see the need to implement this provision as criminal law has been developed in recent years in order to allow for earlier judicial follow-up of those who are likely to commit terrorist acts. The provisions of the current law are already in a position to meet the Government's objectives. In fact, MICAS often overlaps with judicial controls. By transferring so many powers to the administrative authority, to the detriment of the judicial authority and the separation of powers, there is a significant risk that these devices will be used more widely in another context, for example against political opponents – ecologists, alterglobalists, Corsicans, Basques, and even Britons – all the more so as the remedies are made more difficult under the SILT law. Home visits, which can be used instead of judicial searches, suffer the same criticism. The judicial measure for preventing terrorist recidivism and re-integration incorporates the provisions of the law of 10 August 2020, to which we had opposed and which had been censored by the Constitutional Council. Despite the corrections made, this measure constitutes a "post-sentence sentence", based on imprecise notions of danger and risk of recidivism. Moreover, its effectiveness is questioned in view of the numerous existing measures aimed at preventing the risk of terrorist recidivism, as the Council of State had pointed out in its opinion on the August 2020 Act. On the other hand, we welcome the intelligence provisions more favourably. We welcome the fact that France continues its desire to supervise and control the actions of its intelligence services, which, before the 2015 law, acted outside any legal framework. The 2015 law was an undeniable step forward, thanks to the establishment of the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques, the CNCTR. Several provisions of this bill are aimed at strengthening the powers of the Commission and increasing supervisory measures. The Senate has further increased the safeguards, thereby satisfying some of our amendments. This will allow the CNCTR to request an interruption of the research program in the event of retention of information beyond legal periods. However, some measures do not appear to us to be sufficiently controlled and we would have liked the role of the CNCTR to be further enhanced. The extension of data retention deadlines for research and development purposes seems excessive and the principle of partitioning data should have been explicitly included in the law. Ultimately, this bill brings together two very different pieces of legislation, the members of our group will position themselves according to the balance they consider most appropriate between the maintenance of public safety and the preservation of fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u55	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u56	Recognizing the reality of the terrorist phenomenon in our country cannot exempt us from reconciling the prevention of breaches of public order with respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. Similarly, firm action against terrorism does not necessarily mean adding new provisions to existing ones. While we are looking at a text which is in line with security laws, which confers broad powers on the administrative authority and allows it to take measures restricting rights and freedoms, a question seems essential: is the proliferation of repressive texts effective in the fight against terrorism? For us, the answer is no. Our counter-terrorism legislation is already substantial. It has been gradually strengthened and many experts and high-level judges consider it to be largely sufficient. Today, while no comprehensive and detailed assessment of the effectiveness of the numerous "anti-terrorist" laws has been made, and no independent assessment of the impact of these measures on human rights has taken place, you ask us to perpetuate the strengthening of the executive power by extending the prerogatives of administrative police and anticipating the repression of behaviour considered potentially dangerous. Since 2015 and the establishment of a state of emergency, however, we warned you about the risk of trivialising the use of exceptional devices while affirming the need to strengthen our foundation of fundamental rights. Unfortunately, we have not been heard and this bill confirms our concerns. Thus, you ask us to sustain the administrative police arrangements provided for by the SILT law, which are themselves derived from the state of emergency, while strengthening them. I would remind you that our group had strongly opposed the SILT law, the law on the normalization of the state of emergency, as had been done by all human rights associations, many experts, international organizations and independent administrative authorities. We warned you about the risks and abuses associated with exceptional measures, which are likely to undermine the rule of law and the exercise of fundamental freedoms. We also reiterate our opposition to the extension of the experimental measures of the Intelligence Act, which allows automated network monitoring by algorithms. In 2015, Communist deputies, firmly opposed to any form of mass surveillance, denounced a reform that failed to balance the strengthening of intelligence policy with strict respect for individual freedoms. In all logical terms, today we refuse to allow Internet traffic to be analysed by an algorithm classified as a secret defence, especially since this device, placed in the hands of the executive, would avoid the judicial judge's control of measures which seriously violate individual freedoms. Finally, with regard to Article 19, we fully share the concerns expressed by archivists, historians and lawyers: its sole objective is to further restrict access to public archives. Its adoption could therefore lead to an unprecedented decline in historical research and knowledge over periods such as the Algerian war. We deplore your refusal to change this system, which was completely challenged by the decision of the Council of State of 2 July 2021, which found the general interministerial instruction No. 1300 on the protection of the secrecy of national defence illegal. We solemnly reaffirm that the archives do not belong only to the administrations that produce them; they are the common good of the nation. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] Today, as in the past, we believe that the rule of law cannot become accustomed to violations of fundamental rights and freedoms, nor can we accept as a collateral effect the abuses and abuses caused by derogations. While it is essential to combat terrorism, respect for the separation of powers, respect for individual freedoms and their control must not suffer any fault. For all these reasons, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u57	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u58	Here we are at the end of a long legislative process that began in 2017, when the majority, on the Government's proposal, wanted to end a state of emergency established by the last legislature by including in the common law provisions to combat terrorism effectively in order to protect our fellow citizens. We had this debate last week on a new reading, following the meeting of a CMP which, by very little, had not reached an agreement. So I will be quite brief, especially since we have work for the day – and certainly for the whole night. We decided to give ourselves a few years to test the provisions voted at the beginning of the legislature. Today we are going to perpetuate them, because they have shown their effectiveness – our colleagues Braun-Pivet, Ciotti and Gauvain are the first witnesses, for having been informed very regularly of how they were used by our services. As a result of this re-visitation clause, Parliament played its full role, including during the shuttle service between our house and the Senate. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, it is regrettable that the Joint Joint Committee has not been concluded, but we can be pleased to have retained a large number of provisions voted by our honourable senators, and to have reached agreement on the intelligence section. A difficult balance had to be struck between security in the face of terrorism and individual freedoms, under the guise of the Constitutional Council. We believe that this has been achieved and that is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u59	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u60	At the end of the discussion of this text, a sense of missed opportunity dominates. We all know the reality: our country is facing persistent and constantly changing terrorism, which has killed 271 people since 2012. This bill, however, merely apologises a few tricks, without much measure of the threat to our country, and the parliamentary shuttle unfortunately failed to remedy its squeaky lack of ambition. We are far from building a true anti-terrorism policy. The objective should have been to establish a stable framework and to improve the security of the French in practice and on a lasting basis. The health crisis in our country cannot justify the postponement of a comprehensive reform, which is indispensable. In this respect, the position of the Republican Group has been consistent. We have been diligently following the work on this text, showing responsibility and demand. In this regard, I would like to highlight the work carried out by Eric Ciotti, SILT's law enforcement rapporteur, with Ms. Chairman of the Law Commission and Mr. Rapporteur, as well as Guillaume Larrivé's. The measures of the SILT Act, although useful, do not meet the continuing threat to our country. For example, there were only 462 house visits for 4,500 administrative searches during the state of emergency. Our level of protection has declined, while the threat does not weaken. In the same way, the text is incomplete about radicalised prison leavers, a question which I know, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, is of great concern to you. This is a major threat, as 2540 Islamists were or will be released between 2018 and 2022. Worse, as the Director General of Homeland Security, Nicolas Lerner, pointed out, and according to his words, "the people...the most versed in apology have not come out. Those who remain and will come out after 2022 are the most hardened. Mr. Jean-François Ricard, the prosecutor of the Republic of Anti-Terrorism, spoke of "more than a worry, a real fear" regarding the fate of "tens of people who will be released from prison, who are very dangerous and whose convictions are absolute". The worst is to come, and unfortunately we are on the trail of events. However, you have rejected all the amendments that will strengthen our counter-terrorism arsenal, such as bringing our legislation closer to that applicable to the 1958 state of emergency, the expulsion of foreigners who pose a risk to the security or the increased surveillance of radicalized detainees. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To conclude, in the constructive spirit of national unity that drives the group The Republicans as soon as security is at stake, we will vote in favour of this text, while sincerely regretting this missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u61	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u62	Since 2017, we have made great strides in security in order to better protect the French, particularly in the face of the evolving terrorist threat. Thanks to the tools adopted by Parliament, the actions of the Government, our security forces and our intelligence services have prevented as many as 36 attacks in four years. I would like the House to join me in paying tribute to our intelligence services. As we have noted in the course of the debates, we still have efforts to make, particularly in the support and supervision of former convicted of terrorism. As we pointed out in this House ten days ago, the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office and DGSI, the Directorate-General for Internal Security, estimate that 15 to 20 per cent of those who will be released from prison are still too dangerous. That is why, throughout the drafting of this text, we have ensured that we continue our common work, which Mr Larrivé pointed out earlier, while at the same time placing it in a balanced and proportionate framework. We have always been pragmatistic in adapting the right to the reality of threats to our citizens. It was in this same spirit of realism that we adopted this text at first reading. First of all, we had been able to reach consensus with the Senate on the experimental measures since the SILT Act, which have demonstrated their usefulness and effectiveness, and which we must now absolutely endure. Other points of agreement were found, particularly in the area of intelligence, in order to simplify and strengthen the action of the services while improving the protection of the data of the French. This is particularly true of the amendment adopted at second reading, which makes it possible to strengthen the guarantees of freedoms by abolishing the possibility for the administrative authorities to transmit information to the intelligence services on their own initiative. However, there have been significant and persistent differences in security measures. In this regard, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats considers it necessary to maintain the 24-month period applicable to MICAS for prisoners convicted of terrorism. This is a strong and necessary measure to effectively track the most dangerous individuals. My colleague Blandine Brocard, the spokesman for our group, had defended at first reading an amendment aimed at creating a new category of security measures adapted to certain situations: we are therefore aware of the legal questions that may arise from this type of provision. Nevertheless, Madam Deputy Minister, we reiterate our confidence in the Government's ability to defend before the Constitutional Council, if necessary, the decision to extend the duration of MICAS. With regard to new judicial security measures to prevent terrorist recidivism and reintegration, it was also necessary to keep the text of the first reading of the text in the Assembly. This is a satisfactory compromise between the need to prevent terrorism and the preservation of individual freedoms. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group. – Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Committee on Constituent Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, also applauds]] Despite the disagreements between the assembly and the Senate, we are convinced that the balanced, protective and realistic nature of the text that we adopted on new reading will achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. For these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will vote for this text as we adopted it on a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u63	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u64	The Socialist and related group is very sensitive to the issue of the fight against terrorism. Our fellow citizens must be preserved from the barbarity that has struck us cruelly in recent years. However, our role as legislator must lead us to the utmost vigilance so that none of the laws passed here violate the fundamental freedoms that are at the heart of our republican, legal and political tradition. Not only could the text prove ineffective in combating terrorism, it could also undermine fundamental freedoms. However, it cannot be accepted that the lack of material and human resources to which intelligence services suffers has such an impact. We are not against the surveillance measures, but against the custodial measures imposed after the sentences have been carried out. We are not against the MICAS, but against their definitive inclusion in our law, while their current experimental status allows Parliament to rule regularly on the need to maintain them. We are also opposed to such measures being imposed for a maximum period of 24 months. Twelve months should be enough to prosecute on the basis of new facts. Beyond this deadline, there will be no prohibition on the intelligence services to continue monitoring, provided that they have the human and material means to do so. Censored in August 2020 by the Constitutional Council, the security measures were designed to impose on a person leaving prison a number of obligations, in particular house arrest, for a period of up to five years. We are not opposed to surveillance, but these precise modalities make it almost a condemnation for dangerousness. While the Government had taken into account the decision of the Constitutional Council, the problem remained at the political level: once again, the lack of material resources led to the erosion of fundamental principles. In 2015, it was the socialists who initiated the experiment of the algorithms in the field of the fight against terrorism: once again, the sustainability of the system simply means that Parliament will no longer have to question its necessity, that is, that it will lose control of it. As for the other monitoring techniques involved in the text – the extension of the use of algorithms to URLs, in order to track people who have visited a given site, or the satellite interception of communications – we are not opposed in principle. We ask, however, for them to be kept at the experimental stage, because, according to their use, they are likely to seriously suffer from fundamental freedoms as well as respect for privacy. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds]] Finally, historians have alerted you: your text may unnecessarily, dangerously, restrict access to archives. We have said it and we repeat it: intelligence services do not need a new law, but additional material and human resources. For all of these reasons, members of the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u65	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u66	The draft law on the prevention of acts of terrorism and intelligence was not a piece of legislation: the measures it provided for had been evaluated years ago. It aims to give the administration and the judicial institution the means to protect our fellow citizens: the group Action together is therefore very favourable. I repeat, we are aware of the need to consolidate our legal arsenal and to enable our administration, our intelligence services, our law enforcement agencies to protect the population from an endogenous terrorist threat. With this in mind, the text has given rise to numerous exchanges in committee, in sittings, in the Assembly and in the Senate, and finally in the Joint Joint Committee. I would like to congratulate Loïc Kervran, rapporteur and member of our group, on the quality of his expertise and on the adoption of fourteen of his amendments. It is now appropriate that this bill be finally adopted: the existing MICAS expire on 31 July and the absence of further measures would pose a significant risk to national security. From the beginning of our discussions, two major points of divergence between parliamentarians emerged. While both chambers agree on the urgent need for follow-up of persons convicted of terrorist acts who leave detention, the modalities of follow-up, discussed in articles 3 to 5, divide them. With regard to section 5, which replaces security measures deemed unconstitutional in 2020, we regret that no compromise with senators could be found; However, our group is pleased to see it reinstated in its original wording, adopted by the Assembly at first reading, which provides for the increased penalties for breaches of the obligations under the same article. The main objective of the Special Rapporteur is to prevent recidivism and to ensure the reintegration of persons convicted of certain terrorist acts. As the keeper of the seals recalled, 162 prisoners in this capacity, some of whom remain radicalized, will have served their sentences by the end of 2023; It is therefore necessary, if not urgent, to adopt this article as it has been restored. Similarly, the MICAS referred to in article 3 need to be strengthened, which is why we have re-established the original version of this article, which provides for their perpetration and the extension of their maximum duration – up to 24 months for those convicted of terrorist offences to a penalty of deprivation of liberty of up to five years. Although the philosophy of the Senate has not coincided, in this case, with that of our assembly, some of its contributions have been retained: for example, we welcome the rapporteur Raphaël Gauvain, who tabled an amendment proposing to retain some of these Senate amendments, concerning the justification of the home and the consideration of family life in the context of the prohibition of being in direct or indirect contact with certain persons. Finally, article 7 was amended to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Council, which, on 9 July 2021, declared the provisions on the communication of information held by administrative authorities to intelligence services not in conformity with the Constitution. In order to limit the flow of sensitive information, the possibility of transmitting genetic data is also excluded. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Between the effectiveness of public action and the preservation of individual freedoms, balance is always difficult to find; However, the wording proposed by the Government, which was largely amended by the Parliament, was now more than satisfactory. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text, which protects the French and their freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u67	On the bill as a whole, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u68	The IDU and Independent Group regrets that the Joint Joint Committee has not reached an agreement. While retaining some changes made by the Senate, the National Assembly has re-established its own text with regard to the essential provisions, our line being the protection of the French. This is the case, in particular, with Article 3, which provides for the strengthening of individual administrative control and supervision measures – the famous MICAS – and Article 5, to which our group is particularly attached, and which essentially incorporates the bill tabled by the Chair of the Law Committee, Yaël Braun-Pivet. The Commission wanted to introduce security measures against perpetrators of terrorist offences who had served their sentences, which were ultimately censored by the Constitutional Council. In fact, I had tabled an amendment, adopted at the sitting, which provided that terrorists leaving prison should be subjected to the wearing of the electronic bracelet: an obvious one, given the dangerous nature of these real time bombs. Is it necessary to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that since 2012, terrorism has killed 272 people in our country? Our only objective, even if it will be difficult to achieve, must be that these victims remain the last. Of course, Madam Deputy Minister, we must show humanity and ethical sense, but above all we must protect. That is why I will once again plead, in my personal capacity, that the perpetrators of terrorist acts should be deprived of French nationality – at least the binationals who betrayed the nation by going to combat zones. I am also in favour of administrative detention: it works, and we have no choice when we need to go fast. I advocate a simple ban on returning to the national territory for those who have stayed in terrorist and jihadist theatres of operation. We hope that the new wording of article 5 will produce all its effects and will not, in turn, run counter to the censorship of the Constitutional Council. As for Article 13, it provides that the intelligence services will be able to access data relating to the viewing of websites: this is also a good thing, because the protection of our citizens cannot wait any longer. The IDU and independent group, however, expressed a reservation: these provisions concerned an extremely technical area and their scope tended to increase as bills were drafted. We therefore hope that these mechanisms will be strictly supervised so as to prevent any misuse of their use, in particular for the techniques which give rise to a massive collection of data and which cannot be restricted to the persons concerned. However, despite the importance of this remark, we obviously do not dispute the objectives of the article: to equip the intelligence services with the means they need to deal with emerging threats, and above all to equip us with devices adapted to the ever-increasing evolution of technology. As a last resort, the text adopted by the National Assembly is ultimately more effective and more adapted to the scale of the challenge we face in the area of terrorism. Our position remains the same as at first reading: we support this bill, which contains useful measures. Unfortunately, the threat persists, though diffuse: let us not forget it for a moment! Every time we think we're done with her, we get a slap – another attack, and another one! It is serious; It always requires our attention. That is why the fight against terrorism must be given all the necessary means. Although we sometimes regret that the Government and the majority remain deaf to the opposition's proposals, including ours, even though questions remain about the implementation of certain provisions, the vast majority of the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this text, which, beyond partisan divisions, brings us together for the protection of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u69	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u70	In order to complete my remarks on the motion for prior rejection, and to ensure that everyone understands that there is a close relationship between what we have just learned about the Pegasus software and what we are talking about today, I would point out that the second part of the text does not deal with intelligence in order to combat terrorism but with intelligence in the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u71	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u72	MICAS are subject to a counter-terrorism purpose; intelligence is intelligence, without any further precision. It is explained to us in the text that it can be used to thwart terrorist attacks: this is also the main argument used by the Israeli company NSO Group Technologies to sell its software. Intelligence covers espionage and counter-espionage, the latter aimed at protecting our information and our citizens, including ourselves, that is, the arbitrariness of the public authorities. Hence the mechanisms under the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques (CNCTR), which I find imperfect and which I criticize: that is why I will not vote for this text, whose provisions on this subject are weak and insufficient. However, this protection is also exercised vis-à-vis foreign powers, whether public or private. I say this again: the silence of the delegate minister, while his colleague Gérald Darmanin's line is on the list of the 1000 French numbers concerned, is worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u73	It is the Insoumis who are worrying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u74	As soon as it comes to protecting Israel, we can count on Meyer Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u75	Please, Mr. Habib. We have listened to you; We are now listening to Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u76	The Insoumis and their guru Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u77	Better Melenchon than Bibi!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u78	From the moment that the technology we are talking about exists, it radically alters our approach to who can be allowed or not, detected or not, what is feasible or unfeasible and what we can subcontract ourselves: have we done so? Do we? Do we own this technology ourselves, if only to protect ourselves from it? Are there any similarities to what the extension to the URLs of the algorithm field allows? We have already discussed the issue of operators from whom data could be recovered. I asked the question: are we going to force them to plan security loopholes – backdoors, for intimates – so that our services can, in partnership with them, access the telephone numbers that interest them? I was told it wouldn't be. It makes sense: if we don't need their services to get into a phone, what's the point of asking them? It is therefore not necessary to provide for it in a piece of legislation! [[Brouhahaha]] This case must ask us about the protection of our fundamental freedoms, both individual and collective, as well as about the preservation of the democratic and republican character of our regime in the face of the attacks that it may face.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u79	Quiet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u80	The NSO Group case is therefore directly related to the discussion of this bill: it is outrageous that the Israeli government would allow this company to market its technical solution to certain states. With regard to intelligence, espionage and counter-espionage, from the moment when nothing is said, all fantasies are allowed – and this is never a good thing! I've seen some strange debates about encrypted phones. But the use by the President of the Republic of an encrypted phone is not the subject! I believe that we should be able to secure the President's telephone so that he can, if he wishes, exchange messages on Telegram with parliamentarians without any foreign power being aware of it. We therefore reject the substance of the text, both for its counter-terrorism component and for its intelligence component, but we also express a new concern, linked to the current situation and the Pegasus software of NSO Group. You are usually quicker, ladies and gentlemen, when there is media news, to modify one text or to propose another! This is total and complete silence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u81	Tell us more about Morocco!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u82	Silence, Mr. Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u83	Please listen to Mr. Bernalicis! Can you conclude quickly, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u84	[[Mr Meyer Habib exclaimed]] No threatening gestures, Mr. Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u85	We heard you, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u86	I'm being threatened, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u87	There's a radicalised MP in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u88	Our colleague Meyer Habib was clever in explaining that the Israeli intelligence services, thanks to Pegasus, had enabled our services to foil an attack in France. I wonder how he gets that kind of information himself! However, we will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u89	We understood it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u90	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Stella Dupont also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] On the occasion of Mr Bernalicis' speech, Mr Meyer Habib yelled at many insults, including one of our colleagues as an anti-Semitic. These words are unacceptable, intolerable and deceitful! The repeated violence of Mr Habib's remarks in this House, his insulting and insulting stances, degrade the parliamentary debate. We will therefore write to the President of the National Assembly asking for sanctions against this colleague who is no longer in control and is on the verge of anti-parliamentary radicalisation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u92	For my part, I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u93	I've been questioned, I want to answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u94	We'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u95	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendment before me. Amendment No 1 by Mr Loïc Kervran, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u96	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u97	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u98	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 131 Number of votes cast 128 Absolute majority 65 For adoption 108 Against 20
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u99	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u100	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u101	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the management of the health crisis (No 4386, 4389).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u102	This morning, the Assembly continued the discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with Amendment No. 666 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u103	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor for a point of order. Let's get this over with quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u104	[[Long exclamations on various benches]] Mr President, I was directly questioned. I would like to stress how sorry I have been to see the president of the group slipping away. France, Mr Mélenchon, was insoubted a few months ago: he should not have said what he said. When, at the time of the British elections, his foal was beaten, he accused the Jews! That's an anti-Semitic slip.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u105	You're doing it again, with your insults! That's enough now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u106	Wait, Mr. Habib...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u107	While an Israeli software was mentioned that is indeed very efficient, and that allows to foil certain terrorist attacks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u108	We understand, Mr. Habib.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u109	...I've been called directly into question again! That's enough of their obsession with Jews and Israel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u110	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor for a second point of order. However, we should start our work quite quickly, because we have something to worry about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u111	This point of order concerns precisely the organisation of our work. This morning, as we continue to examine the amendments here, the Social Affairs Committee of the Senate was hearing from the Minister of Solidarity and Health on the draft law on the management of the health crisis. I would very much like the minister to enlighten us on the provisions he has put forward before the Senate, as the National Assembly has not yet completed its consideration of the bill before it. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] In addition to this, there is a small number of hours for the examination of this text in committee and, initially, in a public meeting, for it to be put to the forceps when it deserves an in-depth debate. All this shows a form of contempt for parliamentary work, which I find regrettable on this very important subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u112	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 666.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u113	It plans not to apply the health pass to school catering, as is the case for other collective catering.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u114	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u115	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u116	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u117	Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u118	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 667.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u119	Its purpose is to exempt the flow of beverages from the constraint of the sanitary pass, given the difficulty of enforcing its use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u121	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u123	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u124	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u125	You're Lucky Luke, Mr. President, you shoot faster than your shadow! I wanted to react to Amendment No 666 on collective restoration. Mayors have shown great intelligence and responsibility in implementing health protocols in school restaurants. Compliance with these protocols is not always simple – it depends in particular on the size of the municipality. More and more mayors of small communes in my constituency explain to me that by the coming year, the health protocol will lead them to refuse access to the canteen for some children, for lack of room. It is not always possible to set up more than two or three services! The exclusion begins with children who are not from the commune and are schooled by derogation from school, and then the mayors draw up a list of the most objective criteria possible. I would like to draw your attention to this point, Minister, and ask you to establish with your national education colleague a diagnosis of the number of children who would thus be deprived of school catering. This confirms the validity of the amendment tabled on this subject by our colleagues on the right: if we apply the health pass in school catering, there is a great risk of aggravating the difficulties of access to the canteen, whereas we know that it offers balanced menus, essential for many school children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u126	I have before me two amendments, Nos 974 and 905, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 974, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 974.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u127	I heard your message, Mr. Jumel, about canteens. The purpose of this amendment is to delete a provision introduced in committee against the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the rapporteur, which would prevent the introduction of the sanitary pass in the activities of food and beverage outlets below a certain threshold linked to the number of customers. We know that a legislative provision that includes a threshold becomes extremely restrictive – and that is one of the reasons why we are meeting today. The setting of a threshold is a regulatory measure which will obviously have to be strictly proportionate to the risk, like all the animal health measures taken since the beginning of crisis management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u128	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 905.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u129	I share the minister's analysis, once it is not customary. The threshold at which the sanitary pass, if maintained, is required must be proportionate to the risk. The amendment is therefore intended, in the interests of caution, to fix it in the restaurant to 150 people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u131	I am personally opposed to the imposition of thresholds that would de facto exclude certain establishments from the scheme, with the exception of shopping centres for which access to essential goods justifies it. For restaurants, the establishment of a threshold would prevent a general application of the measure. At the heart of the fourth wave, some restaurants and bars would risk being unjustly closed due to the lack of a sanitary pass. I am therefore personally in favour of the Government's amendment. On the other hand, the committee of which I am the rapporteur has adopted the provision which the latter tends to delete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u132	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u133	The Government's amendment is quite symptomatic of its rigid position on the sanitary pass, particularly in restaurants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u134	That's right! He's not letting anything go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u135	The removal of the threshold defined by decree – which, in this case, is no more binding than in the case of other measures, since many are those which require for their application regulations – amounts to requiring the sanitary pass from the first customers present in a restaurant. But what consistency would there be to impose the pass in a restaurant that would have twenty cutlery divided between a terrace and a room, by providing space between the guests – which the restaurateurs were perfectly able to do during the deconfinition, first on the terraces, then in the rooms – and to exempt from it individuals who would organize a meal with caterer in a closed place for 50, or even 100 people, since it is not a public demonstration? We see here the limits of the Government's systematic and rigid position. It is the promoters of the sanitary pass who tell you. We have always considered that, in order to be accepted by our fellow citizens, it must be coherent, readable, flexible and of common sense. Health risk is not the only factor taken into consideration: don't make me think that hosting ten people spaced in a room is more risky than letting people go into a street.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u136	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u137	The Government's amendment – Mr.Brindeau took the words off my mouth – gives the impression of a false opening of restaurants since from the first customers, the sanitary pass will be requested. You need to show your intentions more clearly. This brings me to a question, a little on the sidelines of the text but which is linked to the sanitary pass: due to the gauge of fifty people to which they have been subjected since yesterday, the festivals are cancelled one after the other. Associations and communities have incurred expenses to organize them. The legal constraints imposed are so strong that they have no choice but to cancel the festivities. What is the State's responsibility in this regard? Is there any provision for compensation or payment of the costs incurred? In the same spirit, when you decide that the number of customers is limited to two or three per hour, point bar – certainly, I caricature a bit by saying that – how will the state assume its responsibility? But above all, what a lack of confidence in restaurants and business leaders!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u138	I put to the vote Amendment No. 974.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u139	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 106 Number of votes cast 104 Absolute majority 53 For adoption 55 Against 49
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u140	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 1036.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u141	The amendment concerns the construction and public works sector, which, like many others, has suffered the health crisis. It may also be of interest to other activities. The construction and public works sector (BTP) is faced with labour and raw material problems, which cause delays in construction projects – some companies will work exceptionally in August. Worksites can be removed from the company's headquarters and the teams must be housed at the hotel and fed in restaurants within a week. Many young professionals have not yet been vaccinated, including in Anjou, where there is a lot of vaccination, Minister – I salute the civicism of the Angiovines. Today it is possible to get an appointment for a vaccine within 15 days; It then takes three weeks for the second dose and one more for the health passport to become valid, i.e. a total of six weeks: so many weeks and days during which employees will have to test. The purpose of the amendment is to sign agreements between employers and restorers, along the lines of what had been done during the previous confinements to allow access to adequate catering for these employees without requiring them to perform a PCR test every two days. We need rigour to protect ourselves against the virus, but also pragmatism to avoid making the lives of these employees impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u143	The emergency mechanism for collective restoration will be the subject of a decree by the Prime Minister, where you propose an agreement, which is not satisfactory in legal terms. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u145	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u146	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u147	The walkers are walking on their heads: just now they are sending an amendment that aims at dispensing the children who will eat in the canteen with a sanitary pass and, now, they are explaining to us that it will be difficult for the employees of the BTP to have access to the collective restoration. If it's problematic, it's because you've managed it no matter how, and many people are victims of it. I want to give you an example of the implementation of your bad measures: yesterday, at the museum of Dieppe, an extraordinary castle where impressionist painters such as Pissarro can be admired, 200 people present themselves for a visit: 50 of them, who were not vaccinated, were sent back to the beach in accordance with the decree, which created cracks in the queues between those who were vaccinated, and who wanted to enter the castle quickly, and those to whom it was necessary to explain that they had nothing to do there since they were not vaccinated: the divide of the population is well on the rendezvous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u148	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u149	We try to point out to the prefects that the museum is very large, that a gauge could be fixed to 40 people, that the network of visiting guides could organize the visits in order to allow everyone to discover this magnificent castle. But we face a refusal because it is the size of the institution receiving from the public (ERP) that is taken into consideration and not the concrete reality in determining the conditions of access to this magnificent cultural place. This is a concrete illustration, on the one hand, of the contradictions that you do not accept and, on the other hand, of the technocratic management of the crisis that we have denounced since the beginning of the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u150	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 622.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u151	It is intended to delete paragraph 10 concerning trade fairs and fairs. It is in line with the logic of our rejection of the health pass. I take this opportunity to ask Mr.Véran since he is here: from what you said this morning, in the living rooms that are closed places, if a person enters with a sanitary pass, he will no longer need to wear a mask. This echoes the Prime Minister's statement yesterday that vaccinated people will no longer be considered contact cases. You indicated that you followed the recommendations of the High Council for Public Health (HCSP), stating that the Pfizer vaccine prevents 86% of symptomatic – and not asymptomatic – cases. In other words, today we do not know the percentage of people who, vaccinated with Pfizer, can continue to transmit the virus without knowing it because they are asymptomatic. For my part, I continue to consider, in the light of the information we have from other countries, that the precautionary principle should prevail. Mr Veran, the authority gives its opinion, but it is up to us, the political leaders, to decide afterwards. I note, moreover, that for the past year and a half, you have not always followed the recommendations of the medical authorities, whether they are, at the beginning, wearing the mask or the number of days of isolation needed. Today, you decide to endorse the scientific opinion. You said that "history will judge": for history, I don't know, but time will judge the words. In the situation of epidemic outbreaks we know, you take a huge risk by asking people to stop protecting themselves when they have a health pass. I would like you to repeat that it is your responsibility today to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u153	The sanitary pass helps to consolidate the recovery which, in my opinion, is so much expected by the professionals in the sector. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u155	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u156	You're not answering?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u157	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support Amendment No. 1084.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u158	This is an amendment by the La République on the move, at the initiative of our colleague Jean-François Eliaou, which aims to impose the health pass for seminars, particularly corporate seminars. It thus responds to a strong demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u159	I have before me three amendments, Nos 689, 1173 and 40, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 689.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u160	The subject has already been mentioned and will certainly still be mentioned in future amendments. I do not repeat all the repeated arguments on the benches of this House on reducing the risk of spreading outside. The amendment is therefore intended to restrict the pass requirement for fairs and fairs to covered spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u161	Amendment No 1173 by Mrs Delphine Bagarry is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u162	It aims to exclude from the scope of the pass fairs and fairs that take place in the open air. As the discussion has taken place on many occasions, I will not prolong myself: the sites of contamination being mostly the closed places, an exception could be made for fairs and fairs that take place outside.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u163	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 940.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u164	I shall take up little or no of the questions already expressed by Éric Coquerel. Minister, you seem to be taking on the fact that vaccinated people will be able to do without the protections that have so far proven their effectiveness. Many of them, as we know, are likely to be infected with the virus, including in symptomatic forms, and thus transmit it. You told us that, in the opinion of various medical authorities, they could, at this stage of the epidemic, dispense with wearing a mask. But we would like you to present your opinion to the national representative. We believe that there is a form of inconsistency in this bill to include measures that restrict public freedoms and, at the same time, to allow vaccinated persons to stop protecting themselves, especially in closed places. Why do we insist on this? Because your argument gives the impression that you create two categories of citizens: on the one hand, those who have refused to be vaccinated, for whom harassment will only multiply; on the other, those who have been vaccinated, for whom it will be possible to evolve without protection. The gap between two categories of citizens with two radically different regimes of freedoms is likely to deepen, which also poses a health problem, because this solution does not seem reasonable to us to stop the spread of the virus. Could you come back to this question, about which Eric Coquerel asked you several times?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u166	Persons working in health, social and medico-social services and facilities will be vaccinated; those who visit will have to present a sanitary pass. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u168	I will answer, Mr.Corbière, otherwise I think I will be questioned again on the matter and I would like to see progress in the discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u169	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u170	This morning, I have already had the opportunity to give President Becht a long reply on this subject. The High Council for Public Health considers that, in a closed place that makes a good application of the sanitary pass, one can fall off the mask. We took care to bring a nuance of importance in the decree by giving the prefects the possibility, depending on the epidemic situation, to impose the obligation to wear the mask, including in closed places subject to the respect of the sanitary pass. We work with them and they will have to decide soon. In this case, my personal conviction does not matter, but sometimes the answer is in the question: you can see that I have paid particular attention to the reversibility of the mask rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u171	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u172	I'm going on with my colleagues' questions. You told us about the protection against the delta variant provided by two doses of vaccine: they are 88% effective against symptomatic forms and 96% effective against serious forms or hospitalizations. That said, as the contagiosity of this variant is 10 superior to the other variants, as you yourself pointed out, Minister, we would also need to have figures on asymptomatic people vaccinated. We see that the delta variant is spreading even in countries where people have been heavily vaccinated. So we can legitimately hypothesize that 20% to 30% of French people, even if they are vaccinated, are likely to be affected by the delta variant, given its speed of circulation – I don't know what your own estimates are. We have seen that double vaccination provides 96% protection against serious forms, but what about the remaining 4%?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u173	Mr President, this is by no means an amendment defence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u174	Applying this percentage to the 30 per cent of the French population contaminated by the delta variant, hundreds of thousands of cases requiring hospitalization among those vaccinated are obtained in absolute terms. But I don't know that we have 700000 places in resuscitation, I'm even pretty sure. So we need to rest our question. Is it appropriate to allow people who are fully vaccinated to remove their masks in closed places and not to consider them as potential contact cases, even though they may be infected with the delta variant and develop serious forms in proportions that are not negligible? The solution is neither the sanitary pass nor the overall vaccination, which is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u175	On the identical amendments Nos 372, 623 and 927, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u176	We all have in mind the terrible test of previous confinements. Not being able to visit our loved ones in the rest homes or EHPADs was really inhuman. Our amendment seeks to delete paragraph 11, so as not to subject to the obligation to present a health pass persons who go to the bedside of sick or elderly persons, provided, of course, that they comply with the rules of distancing, washing of hands and wearing the mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u177	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u178	This is a very important amendment. We all agree that the greatest number of people need to complete their vaccination schedule, but some will have to visit relatives before they have completed this journey. Who better than health care staff will accompany them to protect themselves and others? They will be able to offer them an FFP2 mask, tell them how to put an overblouse and explain how to avoid transmission of the virus to patients. I stress this because we know very well what situations will lead to the application of the health pass in health institutions, social or medical-social institutions. Will some people be denied access if they do not have the health pass, when they have been called to warn them that their mother, father, spouse is living his last moments? Are we talking about this or not? Neither I nor my colleagues want to live this! During the first, second and third wave, I worked in a resuscitation service. I can tell you that we know how to protect visiting people, as well as patients. So vote for this amendment of common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u179	Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 927.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u180	Like my colleague Hemedinger, I would like to refer to the principle of equal access to the care of the French. Whether it is urgent or programmed care, it is necessary to preserve the right to care, regardless of the health conditions and the vaccination status of the patient. Preventing patients from receiving treatment in hospitals and other health facilities if their pathology is not urgent is tantamount to exposing them to potentially irreversible consequences for their health. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the ban on visits to health facilities has shocked the French: some have been unable to see a loved one living his last moments or to support him in difficult times. It is absolutely necessary to guarantee a right to visit, again regardless of the vaccination status of the visitor. The aim of this amendment is simply to remove the restriction on access to health, social and medical-social services and facilities for people who do not have a health pass, provided of course that they respect the barriers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u182	Unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u184	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u185	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u186	I have to say that I expected a different answer than these simple ones: "Unfavorable". Difficult situations will not be missed. Let us take the case of a man who takes care of his wife at home: if she is hospitalized, should she be prevented from visiting her on the grounds that he has not completed his vaccination course? Again, there are professionals in health facilities who can protect and explain. They can even work persuasion by explaining the benefits of vaccination to a person who is not vaccinated and even offering to receive an injection on the spot. Therefore, do not prohibit non-vaccinated persons from accessing health facilities. Maybe they'll take the opportunity to get vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u187	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u188	I take advantage of these amendments to ask the minister what his position is on supervised self-tests. As they provide a result in a few minutes, they may be useful in these situations where people without a health pass must have emergency access to the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u189	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 372, 623 and 927.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u190	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 146 Number of votes cast 137 Absolute majority 69 For adoption 70 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u191	With regard to identical amendments Nos 46, 389, 616, 740 and 1158, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 46 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, 389 by Mr Philippe Gosselin and 616 by Mrs Caroline Fiat are defended. I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 740.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u192	The sanitary pass will be extended to long-distance public transport. Travelling is a freedom, but it is also a necessity for many of our fellow citizens. Thousands of them take the train every day, sometimes even TGVs, to connect their homes to their workplaces. In addition, it is also a means of emergency travel when family and personal reasons require travel. In such a case, will the person be able to get on a train? Will she have time for a test? Will she even find a place to pass it – it is not so easy to fall on an open pharmacy near home? Above all, I wonder about the health justifications for such an enlargement, because many studies show that, if barrier actions are respected, the risk of contamination in public transport is low. This enlargement is particularly difficult for our citizens, especially in August. It will hinder their movement simply because they have not been vaccinated or have no recent negative tests in their possession. We therefore propose the deletion of paragraph 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u193	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support Amendment No. 1158.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u194	I would like to obtain the Minister's light on the movements between the overseas and the metropolis: those vaccinated from Réunion do not need to carry out a PCR or antigenic test to come to the metropolis; On the other hand, they must produce one in the direction of return. I would like to know your answer on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u195	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u196	While the health passport so far covered only large extra-hexagonal movements, this article includes long-distance travel by public transport throughout the national territory. Therefore, the local commuting of the daily by public transport and all travel by car will not be affected. Therefore, this provision will apply primarily to travel by plane, coach or train for long-distance travel. This objective health perspective refers to scheduled travel, which brings people together for a long period of time in a closed space. This measure does not constitute a travel ban for unvaccinated persons, comparable to the measures taken. In addition, this device shall not be applicable in the event of an emergency which impedes the obtaining of the required evidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u197	Articulate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u198	It will therefore be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u200	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u201	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u202	The Group of the European People's Party will vote against these identical amendments. It is obvious that during long-distance journeys, which last for a period of time and are carried out in a closed space, the virus can circulate and contaminate passengers: it is therefore normal for the sanitary pass device to apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u203	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u204	I would like to welcome Mr Rupin's argument, which proves that it is not a matter of political colour but of common sense. As far as long distance travel is concerned, there is a much simpler measure: if you feel it is dangerous to travel by TGV – while you have been claiming the opposite for 18 months, subject to wearing the mask – impose the FFP2 mask. This will provide an alternative to tests that cannot be performed before you leave. To conclude my remarks on this point, I read yesterday in the newspaper Libération a sentence on which I would like the minister to explain to us, because it seems to me that the journalists of this daily are serious people. An important adviser to an important minister, writes the journalist, sums up the Government's thinking: the primacy will be given to the vaccinated and it will be "a shitty life" for the non-vaccinated. That's how we talk in ministerial cabinets about what you want to impose. In the course of the discussion, we see that everything is done to complicate the lives of the French and to piss them off, as this adviser says. It is no longer a question of health objectives: we have seen this this morning, as far as activities outside are concerned, we are now checking this as far as long-distance transport is concerned. In fact, it is a misappropriation of procedure, as is said in administrative law: you aim at an objective by pretending to defend public health, while you do not take any action on important points that would deserve concrete actions, such as borders, care, hospital beds that you continue to remove or the deployment of air purifiers in schools and universities at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u205	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 46, 389, 616, 740 and 1158.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u206	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 153 Number of votes cast 152 Absolute majority 77 For adoption 67 Against 85
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u207	Amendment No 658 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u208	Amendment No 47 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is editorial. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u209	The discussion of the amendments is speeding up and we did not have time to clarify who the speaker was to present the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u210	We are still talking about public transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u211	That is why I raised my hand: I would like to reply to Mr Gouffier-Cha, who considers it normal that the sanitary pass should apply in TGVs, since it is a closed environment and a long distance journey. Such an argument poses a problem: long-distance travel covered by the TGV is usually faster than that carried out by a TER over a shorter distance, in which, moreover, passengers are even more crowded,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u212	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u213	... because there is no control of the tickets and the placement is free! We need to know what we are talking about: with such an argument, you should, in order to respect your own logic, establish the sanitary pass on board the TERs, the RER or in the metro, especially in Paris. We understand that this is not your goal: it is to encourage, or even impose, vaccination in the country, without saying it. What is tragic is that many of us share this goal of vaccination with a very large majority of the population. But the way you use, through the health pass, creates more conflicts and problems than it solves! On the other hand, you say that if we reached 100% of the population vaccinated, there would be no more problems. However, if the delta variant is as contagious as you claim, with 96% of serious hospitalizations avoided by the vaccine, we still have 4% of possible serious forms. If 30% of the population catches the delta variant while being vaccinated, we can potentially reach the figure of 700000 hospitalizations, Minister. You should have these numbers in mind – and you must have them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u214	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 13 and 657. Mr Vincent Rolland's amendment No 13 is being defended. I call Mrs Valentin to support Amendment No. 657.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u215	How can we block our entire economy, which is currently in full recovery, and on which the Government has invested heavily? By simply adding strong constraints to drivers: they are often alone in their vehicles and carry out loading and unloading in strict compliance with health rules. Therefore, the submission of vaccine, virologic screening or recovery evidence that does not result in covid-19 contamination does not appear to be justified in their case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u216	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u217	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u219	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u220	This is road transport and the driver is alone in his cabin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u221	Amendment No 439 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u222	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 440.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u223	We are still faced with this ambiguity in terms of transport, depending on whether distance or duration is taken into account; you make, without really saying, a rather subtle distinction according to the status of the transport – TGV, TER, Intercity train. In doubt and without wanting to fall into an administered life, it would be prudent to specify your intention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u224	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u225	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] There are long-distance journeys that take place for a short time and potentially long journeys, despite a short distance. It is therefore difficult to find an effective mechanism. The one provided for in this bill seems to me to be appropriate and effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u226	How?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u227	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u229	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u230	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u231	Once again, I am struck by the fact that we are going to impose the sanitary pass on people who need to take public transport to get around, sometimes several times a day or a week. In the name of what should this discrimination be imposed which is not justified in any way in relation to possible contamination? Indeed, the delta variant, which we have been gauging since the beginning of the examination of the text, does not lead to any hospitalization at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u232	Go fix your cold!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u233	Apart from trying to lock up the French at all costs and prevent them from living, this proposal is completely disproportionate to the reality of the epidemic in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u234	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 395.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u235	This amendment by our colleague Yves Hemedinger concerns long-distance public transport. It is necessary to define what a long-distance displacement is, because the notion remains very vague. The measure of duration seems to be the most obvious, given the timetables on the transport tickets. That is why the aim of this amendment is to set the length of a long-distance journey at at least four hours, almost half a day, which could lead to consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u237	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u239	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u240	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u241	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] This morning, the rapporteur was trying to teach us how to play tennis; Now, he presents a sketch by Fernand Raynaud, explaining that long routes may take less time than relatively short routes, which can take time. It's the sketch of the absurd like Raymond Devos, the guy who revolves around the roundabout. Those who use the Paris-Lille TGV will be forced to present the sanitary pass, while others, who board crowded regional trains – Intercité trains that have been decommissioned – for a duration equivalent to that of the Paris-Lille journey, will not have this constraint.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u242	Raymond Devos!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u243	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] We stress that your criterion is a coconut criterion, totally absurd and inoperative in health: it is indefensible. You're not good at tennis and as far as sketches are concerned, there's more fun!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u244	Amendment No 443 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u245	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u247	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u248	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u249	Minister, we have repeatedly asked you why the virus would be circulating on the TGV and not on the TER.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u250	Not in the subway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u251	Why might he be travelling on the Intercités and not on the metro, even though the conditions of promiscuity in the metro are far superior to what they are in the TGV? Let us know your logic, so that we can explain it to our people. What do you know about the circulation of the virus based on people's movements?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u252	I call Mr Buchou to support Amendment No. 550.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u253	I would like to draw attention to the situation of the islanders – I am thinking in particular of those who live in the islands of Ponant or the island of Yeu in my constituency – on which I was arrested. While these people make daily trips to work on the continent, your device could be a breach of equality compared to those who travel the same type of journeys and who use trams or buses. I did not hear anything earlier about the rapporteur on maritime and air transport between the continent and the islands: I would like to know whether they are concerned or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u255	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u257	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u258	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u259	Minister, why is the virus circulating in TGVs and not in RERs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u260	Not in the subway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u261	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Why does he travel in the Intercity and not in the subway? We will still have to give an explanation at some point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u262	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among non-attached Members]] If we compare the way we travel on the TGV with the conditions of transport in the metro, we are much more likely to catch the coronavirus in the metro than in the TGV! If you want to ban to ban, stop the subway! Moreover, as I said in committee, many people use the TGV every day: the cities of Tours or Le Mans, for example, are one hour from Paris. So there are people who live in these localities and come to work in Paris. They're like daily TGVs. To take another example, the journey between Rennes and Brest, cities in the same region, is longer than between Rennes and Paris. This criterion is therefore absolutely obsolete. In addition, passengers are wearing a mask and those travelling in the first class are relatively far away from each other. I do not understand why we do not reason according to modes of transport rather than distances or durations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u264	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u265	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u266	To be pleasant to you, Mr Ruffin, and perhaps by empathy for the tympanos of the House, I will answer you right away. The big difference between TER and TGV is the distance travelled. The decree will of course provide that the measure will not apply to anyone who will have to take the TGV for ten minutes, because it must move between two TGV stations. There will therefore of course be derogations which will be issued following consultations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u267	Oh! The gas plant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u268	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to spend hours together in the Chamber and I will not raise my voice. So I will only reply once, to the normal volume of my voice, and if you don't hear me, you won't come back and ask me the question again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u269	Oh! It's up to you to be at our disposal, not the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u270	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Discussions will of course take place with the prefects and with the elected representatives, particularly the regional ones, responsible for transport, and also at interregional level, to discuss the implementation of the scheme. The great difference between these modes of transport is the degree of mixing of the populations they involve. What we want is to prevent the virus from spreading as people move from one region to another. You have repeatedly asked for territorialized measures, and it can be seen that incidence rates can be very high in some departments and very low elsewhere. Therefore, the sanitary pass is applied for long distances and long transports, so as to avoid the mixing of the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u271	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support Amendment No. 1159.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u272	[[Many Members raise their hands on all benches]] I am sorry, but I did not hear the minister's answer to the question I asked him. I will take my own case as an example; Perhaps you will understand a little better what it is about. I just traveled from La Réunion to the metropolis and was vaccinated. If it is possible, I would also like to know – this is a question that scares me – who, among us, is vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u273	[[Laughs and applause on various benches]] Wait, wait, there's no vote on this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u274	Adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u275	[[Applause on several benches in the LR and UDI-I groups and among non-attached Members]] So I'm immunized, I have both my doses, but I hear it might take a third. So we're not sure of anything. I am serious, minister: to go back, I just received an email from my airline that I would have to provide a negative PCR or antigenic test. The virus would not circulate in the direction La Réunion-Paris, but it would circulate in the direction Paris - La Réunion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u276	This virus is smart! And he's drinking beer, the minister said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u277	So I would like to know: either we trust the vaccine or we don't trust it. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u278	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u280	Only the complete vaccination schedule allows optimal protection against covid-19. This is about territories that are particularly vulnerable to the epidemic and that need to be protected, or areas where the epidemic is actively circulating and where the state of emergency is declared. I think La Réunion is one of them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u282	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u283	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u284	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I fully agree with this amendment, which highlights an aberration. We must not be too angry with the minister: the decision made is aberrant, so it cannot be otherwise for its declinations. Everything will be implausible. If we're in a TGV for less than ten minutes, we don't need a sanitary pass, it's easy to understand! But for more than ten minutes, we'll need it. There will therefore be a check that will focus not only on the identity or the health pass, but also on the distance travelled. Between two nearby stations, a check of all the tickets will be carried out, so as to check whether the holder is there to make a long or short distance. The SNCF agents will be delighted to learn that their number will be multiplied to carry out these checks. [[Laughs on various benches]] I would add that we should explore the possibility of providing the virus with a marking that allows it to be exempted from control when it comes up in a RSP; However, when the RER turns into TER, as happens in the direction of the Loiret or in the direction of the airport of Orly and Rungis, the Navigo Pass, which normally indicates between which areas of the RER you are moving, will now require you to provide a sanitary pass. So we'll have to control everyone! I mean, it doesn't hold up! You have just told us that the application of the measure would depend on the distance travelled, because you are a rational being; So you see that if you don't, control doesn't make sense. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among non-attached Members]] But what you are proposing is not the society of permanent control – even if we will have to control at any time: it is the mess, the dog, the disorder, the exhaustion of all in controls which have no meaning and which will cause conflicts between the French everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u285	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u286	I would like to take a look back at what my colleague Poudroux has said. I myself come from La Réunion, a territory where the epidemic is blazing and where it is about to return to curfew and confinement – a curfew is already in effect at 23 hours but it will be advanced. As a vaccine, I didn't have any PCR tests to do to leave Reunion. On the other hand, to return, while the virus circulates less strongly in metropolitan France, I will have to make one. Where's the logic, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u287	That's what Mr. Poudroux just said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u288	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u289	I will provide two points of answer. Concerning the Meeting, its situation was the subject of inter-ministerial reflection...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u290	More technocrats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u291	... based on scientific advice, in order to prevent variants likely to cause epidemic waves from arriving in fragile territories. Then you know very well that these criteria...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u292	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u293	... are reassessed according to the specific epidemic situation of each territory, and what you describe is not intended to persist. With regard to the question put by President Mélenchon, if he would like me to answer him,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u294	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u295	It's indefensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u296	...I probably haven't been clear enough. The intention of the Government under this Act is to provide for the use of a health pass for certain types of long journeys, regardless of the vector. You ask how we will make the difference, on the long lines, between short and long movements. I told you: there are situations specific to each territory, which call for territorial reflection in relation to the elected representatives and the prefects, i.e. consultation. This is done in such a way as to find devices that are not as absurd as those you describe in advance, Mr. Mélenchon. I repeat: the principle is to avoid population brewing. Where we banned interregional movements during confinement periods, precisely to avoid brewing, we no longer want to do so, and I am sure you are in favour of it. To avoid closing the restaurants, we plan to introduce the sanitary pass there; In the same way, in order to avoid prohibiting interregional movements, we want to install a similar device, so that people can continue to travel. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You are right to say that this is an essential question, but you have been a legislator for much longer than I am: so you know that the operational conditions refer to a decree that will specify all the necessary elements. Here, we take the principle that, if the situation so requires, we should use the health pass instead of eliminating interregional movements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u297	Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 928.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u298	We will remain on the issue of transport, despite the absurdity of what we have been hearing for a while. It still seems to me that the wearing of the FFP2 mask is largely sufficient to limit any transmission of the carrier virus to a healthy person. This mask protects against contamination for a period of about eight hours and almost completely filters particles: it is therefore perfectly secure and secure. It is therefore pointless to make the free movement of persons conditional on the presentation of a health pass, which I consider completely absurd. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to replace the requirement to present a sanitary pass for long-term transport with the use of an FFP2 mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u300	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u302	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u303	If it were possible to have an answer, it would be good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u304	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u305	What this pure common sense amendment proposes is so obvious that Mrs Merkel, in Germany, very soon distributed FFP2 masks to the entire elderly population, to protect them from the upsurges of the epidemic. I therefore do not see why we could not adopt it. I mean, you were talking about brewing. Mr Minister, I will take you to the RER D line, which leads to my town of Yerres, in the Essonne: if there is no brewing at the Châtelet station, in Paris-Nord or inside the RER, then you will have to explain to me what this is about in a region of 12 million inhabitants! I think there is a little more brewing in Île-de-France than in a TGV where the seats are spaced. This term "mixing" therefore has no meaning and defies any rationality. Really, you can't make fun of the French at this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u306	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u307	We have Ubu Minister! It is felt that departments manage to give orders to the virus, saying that it is not able to take a Navigo pass but that it can, on the other hand, reserve its ticket to take the TGV. How do you want people to trust you and your science, while the measures you take will appear to them as absolute absurdity? The risk of the virus circulating in a crowded subway is, of course, at least as great as in a TGV! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Excamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You also make another reason: you would like to prevent the virus from circulating from one region to another. But you didn't plan at any time in the discussion to try to isolate the virus! Are you going to carry out checks, on holiday departures, on motorway areas, to prevent people tested positive from moving from one region to another? You have not committed any strategy to reduce the covid -19 on certain areas! You let it circulate throughout the territory, except in the TGV, where it would be in danger of circulating! What this shows is your lack of coherence and strategy. I'm not at all for the introduction of a sanitary pass, but when you want to do checks in the TGV when you don't do it in the subway, it's just the Elysée that gives orders to the virus! It can't happen that way, people know and feel it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u308	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 140, 402, 624, 668, 678, 741, 801, 832, 961, 1117 and 1157. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u309	We will leave the trains for a serious subject, but I will add this conclusion of a well-known sketch, for those who take the train: "There are some that have tried, they have had problems! And I think our fellow citizens are going to have problems. They will also have some to go to the malls – this is the subject of this set of identical amendments. Sanitary passes should not concern everyday acts: or going to a shopping mall, including a certain surface – I do not speak of large surfaces as such – is sometimes an act of everyday life that serves first, of course, to shop for food. But in some neighbourhoods, it is also sometimes the local pharmacy that is inside such a centre. Submitting shopping malls to the obligation to present a pass is really a hindrance to the element of everyday life and we absolutely want to avoid it. We are told not to worry and, in a number of cases, the prefects will be able to assess the situation according to the basin of life, the employment pool and other criteria. This may lead to a breach of equality between some basins which are more or less recognized as subject to the obligation and others which, in neighbouring departments, will not be subject to it. All managers stress the unmanageable nature of access to shopping malls under these conditions, so we want to remove the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u310	On Amendments Nos 140 and 140, which are identical, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 402 by Mr Julien Aubert is being defended. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 624.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u311	By this amendment, we oppose the extension of the health pass to department stores and shopping centres. Following the opinion of the Council of State, unless I am mistaken, the text has been amended. In its current wording, an exception is made to the requirement to present the sanitary pass, "when no other commercial establishment permitting the acquisition of basic food or medical goods is accessible nearby". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know how you are going to be able to apply this exception in practice, what you mean exactly by "neighbourliness", who is going to carry out the checks and to what extent they can be carried out, for example on people who are on holiday and who are going to a shopping centre – how will we know where they come from and why they are going to this centre?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u312	Amendment No 668 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 678.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u313	While I understood the need for the sanitary pass, I wanted to convey to you the grave concerns expressed by the heads of shopping centres with an area of more than 20,000 square meters. Our work in committee has led to a significant advance: let the prefects of department judge whether or not to retain the obligation to present the sanitary pass in these shopping centres, which, let us recall, have been completely closed for many months. Their officials alert us to the difficulties they will encounter. They will be forced to hire additional staff to prevent long queues from forming at the checkpoints of the health pass, at a time when their economic model has been undermined. They also underline the discriminative nature of such a measure vis-à-vis businesses located in these centres and the employees who work there. The aim of this amendment and my intervention is to make you aware of these difficulties, in order to try to find common ground to take them into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u314	Amendment No 741 by Mr Pacôme Rupin is being defended. I call Mr Benoit Potterie to support Amendment No. 801.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u315	The Council of State opposed this provision, stressing that, on the one hand, the scientific studies at our disposal show that shopping centres are safe places and, on the other hand, that this obligation would create inequalities at the expense of traders, employees and customers: it would compromise their access to basic necessities. When examining the text in committee, you proposed a solution to correct this inequality identified by the Council of State. However, this solution seems to me to be inapplicable. The prefect could in fact allow access to shopping centres without a sanitary pass for the purchase of basic necessities, depending on the commercial supply on the living pool. How can this happen in practice, Minister? How will the criteria be determined? We would create a genuine gas plant, by dispensing some shopping malls and not others, by using criteria that will be the subject of litigation. The problem of the lack of equity between employees in the commercial sector is also not solved by the amendment adopted in committee. Take the case of companies with multiple outlets. How can we explain to employees that the vaccination obligation will apply to those who work in the mall and not to others? This provision also distorts competition to the detriment of traders located in these centres, putting them at risk of misappropriation of customers and contraventions for acts for which they are not responsible. While I share the will to take strong measures to deal with the crisis, I believe it is nevertheless necessary to delete the measures provided for in paragraph 13 because they are ineffective, inapplicable and disproportionate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u316	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 832.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u317	We still have this problem of legibility of the law. I repeat that I am not opposed to the health pass, provided the rules are clear and fair. As Mr Potterie has just pointed out, the Council of State, in its opinion, has stated that epidemiological data and scientific advice do not reveal, in view of the health measures already applicable, such as the observance of barrier actions, a significant interest of this measure in the control of the epidemic. In this case, why drastically reduce the activity of some traders on the sole ground that their shop is located in a shopping centre? They have already suffered several very penalizing closures for their activities and very heavy losses. In addition, according to statistics, shopping malls over 20,000 square metres represent only 5% of shops. There is therefore a legitimate question as to the usefulness of this measure, whereas there is no provision for public transport – the metro, for example. For a readability issue, the rules must be able to apply in the same way to all and not to provide for derogations in all directions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u318	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 961.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u319	My colleagues have already developed arguments to which I agree in order to defend these identical amendments. In the area of public health, what could be the added benefit of the health pass, while traders, who have been closed down, have been working for weeks and months to enforce all measures, including barrier actions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u320	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to support Amendment No. 1117.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u321	This measure, which restricts the freedom of choice to go shopping in one mall or another, at the risk of creating social and territorial inequalities, seems disproportionate to me. Hence this proposal to delete paragraph 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u322	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support Amendment No. 1157.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u323	This provision provides for access to department stores and shopping centres – larger than a threshold defined by decree – to be made conditional on the presentation of a sanitary pass. Why such a threshold rather than such a threshold? That reminds me of when you allowed the malls to open while the bookstores remained closed. I have no doubt that the Constitutional Council will examine the proportionality of the threshold to the objective pursued. Therefore, it would be appropriate for this threshold to be defined after a clear debate for all stakeholders. In order to gain access to an essential act of daily life, it is not a question of giving the Government a blank. [[Smile]] To return to our previous debate, on the basis of the number of trips I will have to make between Paris and La Réunion, I believe that I will be put two cotton-tips in my nose about sixty times. It can do some damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u324	Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to give you some clarification on the organisation of work. A little attention, ladies and gentlemen, if you will. Since the resumption of our work this morning at 9 a.m., we have made progress at a rate of forty amendments per hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u325	That's a little fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u326	If we keep this pace, it will take us 18 hours to consider the remaining 728 amendments. Working all night without a break, we will not have completed our work until tomorrow, 13 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u328	[[Applause on many benches]] Let everyone realize that. In particular, I am speaking to the group presidents and those who serve them during our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u329	But it's not our fault: tell the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u330	You have the floor, Mr rapporteur, to give the committee's opinion on these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u331	[[Smile]] Mr President, the rapporteur is talking too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u332	This scheme will apply beyond a certain threshold defined by decree, since the Government has indicated that it will retain that of 20,000 square metres, which prevailed during confinement. Some 400 centres are expected to be involved, i.e. half of the total. Last Tuesday, during our work in committee, we adopted an amendment by our colleague Thomas Rudigoz, allowing the prefect to allow access without a sanitary pass to commercial centres and establishments with points of sale of essential goods and services, since no other commercial establishment is accessible nearby. This addition seems to me to enable the Council of State's objections to this measure to be definitively overcome. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u334	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u335	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 140, 402, 624, 668, 678, 741, 801, 832, 961, 1117 and 1157.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u336	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 175 Number of votes cast 172 Absolute majority 87 For adoption 74 Against 98
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u337	Amendment No 331 by Mr Richard Ramos is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u338	I have before me five amendments, Nos 48, 388, 418, 1096 and 929, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u339	It is an amendment of withdrawal. If the 20,000-square-metre threshold were to be retained, it would still be very useful for the prefect, in consultation with the mayor of the city where the shopping centre is located, to be able to establish derogations based, inter alia, on the configuration of the premises, since not all shopping centres are similar.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u340	Amendments Nos 388 by Mr Philippe Gosselin, 418 by Mr Bernard Perrut, 1096 by Mr Robert Therry and 929 by Mr Philippe Benassaya are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u341	Mr Fabien Di Filippo's Amendment No. 943 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u342	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 887.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u343	This amendment proposes that the presentation of a valid sanitary pass at the entrance to a department store or shopping centre should be sufficient for free movement in its enclosure. The aim is to avoid crowding in a confined location by multiplying the tails in front of the various stores making up these entities. In addition, although this process may create significant groupings at the entrances, it seems more reasonable, healthily speaking, to contain the crowd outside.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u344	I have before me three amendments, Nos 831, 12 and 553, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere to support Amendment No. 831.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u345	[[MM. François Jolivet and Stéphane Claireaux applaud]] [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Like many of my colleagues, I am very much in favour of the health pass. Having said that, I believe that we cannot ask our fellow citizens things that we would not apply, first of all, to ourselves. In 2017, many of us were elected by having the will to exemplify the body. Let us set an example by ensuring that access to the National Assembly, the Senate, as well as to departmental, regional and other councils is subject to a health pass. The people who work in these bodies need protection. We, elected, meet a lot of people. Let us make the health pass mandatory for those who sit in these bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u346	Amendments Nos 12 by Mr François Jolivet and 553 by Mr Guillaume Chiche are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u347	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u349	I would like to reply on this point, which may give rise to interpretation, interpretation and reinterpretation. The question is not whether or not we are in favour of such an obligation. For my part, in absolute terms, she would not shock me. The question is whether it is constitutional or not. This is where the great difficulty lies. No one can prevent parliamentarians from voting on a budget, for example, which is the very foundation of the famous parliamentary immunity. You cannot be prevented from entering a Chamber to vote on a budget. The risk of such an obligation being unconstitutional is high, and the Government is against it, in order to maintain the integrity of the text. In previous decisions, the Constitutional Council noted that parliamentary chambers were excluded from the system and saw this in a positive light: if parliamentarians were unable to vote on a budget, it could be considered a democratic censorship. That is the reason for the unfavorable opinion, but I would prefer to speak to make it clear because I know that the subject is very sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u350	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u351	I always wonder about the unconstitutionality of such a measure, especially since I have read on the thread of the Agence France-Presse (AFP) of the communiqués of the President of the National Assembly, the one of yesterday being different from that of today. For my part, I propose that all those who hold a public authority, including mayors, may, on a case-by-case basis, require a health pass for access to certain buildings, depending on the degree of circulation of the virus and the number of people who are inside. As far as the example is concerned, I agree with my colleague Beaudouin-Hubiere. To hear from the minister, if one of us had Ebola, we couldn't ask him not to come. I'm a little worried. It seems to me possible to adapt the rules of procedure so as to allow all holders of public authorities to propose internal measures, which are well known in the administrative field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u352	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u353	We are the national representation: we represent the people. Our fellow citizens would not understand that we would impose rules on them that we would not apply to each other. I hear the argument of the risk of unconstitutionality, but we must not be afraid of the Constitutional Council as if it were trying to punish us. It only checks the proper scheduling of things between what we adopt and the Constitution. If certain provisions are to be censored, that will be the case. We have already adopted in other texts, and we will probably also adopt in it provisions that have been censored or that will be censored. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, it is important to affirm the will of the national representation to take shape with the entire French population, subject to the same rules as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u354	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 882.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u355	It's going to last two and a half hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u356	He could defend all his successive amendments at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u357	I read in an article published today by Le Monde: "Five million people at risk still unvaccinated". Various types of comorbidities are mentioned: chronic dialysis, diabetes, respiratory diseases... The article states: "In those over the age of 65, 2 million people have not received any doses. That is what should be at the heart of our discussions these days. We should ask ourselves how to get the most fragile. France is today the last country in Western Europe for the vaccination rate of fragile people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u358	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u359	Yes! The Scientific Council even states that our performance in this area ranks us 15th among European countries. We should discuss the solutions to this problem rather than asking ourselves what rules apply in TGVs and TERs, where to control the sanitary pass in shopping malls, or whether or not this pass will be necessary to go to the hairdresser. What relays can we use to reach these populations? That is the question that should be asked. In England, the National Health Service (NHS) sent an e-mail to everyone to call the elderly and people at risk to discuss vaccination. He's a historian who taught me this this morning. A television cameraman also informed me that, in the commune of Saint-Mandé, his mother was invited by the town hall to come and discuss the vaccination. Such steps have taken place in a number of communes, but they have not been systematic in any way. I am thinking of treating doctors, considered a minor point of the device because they are preferred to vaccines. Mobile brigades should also be deployed to meet at-risk individuals and bring them back to the vaccination tool. Brigades of this type exist in other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u360	It also exists in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u361	That is all that we should primarily discuss today. How can we bring 7 million people back to the beginning of a solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u362	Mr Ruffin, can we take it that you have defended the following amendments up to point 1130? They all follow the same logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u363	That's a possibility, Mr. President. This will depend on the minister's response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u364	Apply yourself, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u365	[[Smile]] The rapporteur, Mr Minister, therefore, it is up to you. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u366	My answer also concerns the following amendments up to point 1130. It seems disproportionate to me to ask the Prime Minister to interfere in the operation of brigades set up by each of the CPAM, the primary health insurance funds. The terms "covid brigades" mentioned in your amendment do not appear anywhere else in the law. The tasks you describe are already fulfilled by other actors such as anti-covid mediators employed by regional health agencies (ARS) in the field. They try to convince people of the interest of being vaccinated, in territories where vaccination is still scarce, contrary to what is seen in the Paris region. From this point of view, your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory without the need to impose a single task on brigades at the expense of all the tasks they perform elsewhere. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u367	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u368	[[Smile]] Mr Ruffin, I have waited a long time to tell you: I agree with you! ("Ah! » on the benches of the FI group.) Not with the amendment, rest assured, but with the fact that the urgency in our country is to vaccinate the most vulnerable, those who are elderly or who have diseases. Your figure is the right one: 5 million people remain unvaccinated despite their age or health status. They are particularly exposed to the risks of serious forms. I therefore agree with the objective of your amendment and even with part of your speech. I note, however, by listening to you, that you are not well informed about the actions we are taking. I'm sorry – maybe we haven't communicated enough. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to describe what we are already doing, which goes beyond what your amendment calls for. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The NHS is sending e-mails to the UK. It's great and important to send e-mails; We've also sent millions. There is, however, something we do and they do not do: we call people home. [[Same movements]] I was with the President of the Republic in a health insurance centre where there were about eighty young people recruited and trained – they find a job and some will have to stay on a fixed-term contract – to call one to one, at home, all the people on the list of people at risk unvaccinated. They telephone at home, on several occasions if they do not respond, text them when they have a mobile phone, in which is indicated a line-stop number that gives priority access to any vaccine solution without delay. You should listen to me, Mr. Ruffin. Otherwise you will end up defending one by one all your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u369	I am listening to you, minister, in preparing my counter-arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u370	[[Mr François Ruffin exclaimed]] [[Smile]] You're very strong! Don't be offended. It was a compliment, Mr. Ruffin. I won't do you any more, I promise you. It was the last one! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We made 1.5 million calls. Believe me, they don't have anything stoned: the callers take the time to talk. I attended exchanges that lasted 20 minutes. A 83-year-old lady whose husband was hospitalized was afraid of being vaccinated. I'm going to give him a first name, you're going to like it, Mr. Ruffin: it took time to convince Marcelle. "The vaccine protects you and can prevent you from developing serious forms of the disease," he was told. "An ambulance or taxi can pick you up at home and take you there, it will be taken care of. "You can have the vaccination appointment according to your preferences, morning or afternoon. This is really a work with the human and in direct contact to build a tailor-made response. I think it's even better than an e-mail or a mail. You are asking that doctors be given the mission to reach their unvaccinated patients. This suggestion falls very well, since the agreement of the CNIL – you see that the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms had to give its consent – which we have been waiting for three or four weeks, has finally fallen so that we can communicate to the doctors the list of their unvaccinated patients. All the doctors in our country have therefore received through the usual channels of the e-mails containing these lists. I participated in a video conference with several thousand pharmacists earlier and asked them to contact the doctors to offer their help as they can vaccinate. We did not have the agreement to forward the lists to pharmacists – which shows that our state is very protective and that our country has a lot of rules and standards, which you are sensitive to, I know. We do not stop there: we call for a structure of our society that works well and that you appreciate, the fabric of associations. More than 900 associations are mobilized in the vaccination campaign alongside us, in the communes, in the rural territories – I am thinking of the communal centres for social action (CCAS). I have personally received on several occasions the CCAA association and the community leaders of our country. They are mobilized to raise awareness among our fellow citizens. Health mediators are involved in the working-class neighbourhoods in particular. We set up vaccination centres in shopping centres, where we find immunized mediators, themselves from the working-class neighbourhoods. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I do not believe that we need to introduce an amendment into the law that requires us to move forward: we have been acting and on the bridge for months. This will probably never be enough until 100% of the people concerned have been vaccinated, but then, help us, not by a legislative injunction but by supporting the associations. Go see them in your riding and ask them how you can do it! The Members of the majority are very active in this area. [[Same movements]] I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment and on the following, on which I will not repeat my arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u371	Well done, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u372	I shall give the floor to two speakers on Amendments Nos 882 and following until 1130. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u373	But he still has ten amendments to defend! I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u374	If that is how it is, Mr President, I will defend all my amendments so that more speakers can speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u375	It's the same subject: fragile people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u376	On a point which I believe is essential, there needs to be a broad discussion which may allow representatives of the various groups to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u377	Go back to the back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u378	I am therefore only speaking on Amendment No 882.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u379	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u380	I can provide you with many testimonies of people, whose names I will no longer give you, who have diabetes, chronic diseases or other factors of co-morbidity, who have not been contacted to be vaccinated. No one has explained to them how much in their situation the benefit of vaccination is greater than the risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u381	You've already said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u382	If you've deployed all the means you're talking about, how come our results are so bad? France ranks fifteenth among the European Union countries for the most fragile vaccine coverage, and last among the Western European countries. In France, 80% of people over the age of 80 are vaccinated, compared to 100% in Denmark, 100% in Ireland, 100% in Norway, 100% in Portugal and 100% in Spain. It is 95% in Sweden and 93% in Italy. It is not only through the law that things will move forward, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u383	It's time, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u384	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is for example by debating here how to reach these people, and through what relays they can get vaccinated, rather than by imposing an authoritarian pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u385	Bravo! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u386	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u387	I agree both with Mr Ruffin and with the Minister: the essential thing today is to allow all vulnerable and at risk people, especially the elderly living at home, to be vaccinated. I can testify that the departmental council of Ain, to which I honour myself to belong, has taken the initiative to contact one by one all the elderly at home beneficiaries of the APA, the personalized autonomy allowance. We went to their homes to pick up those who agreed to be vaccinated: we sent them vehicles that took them to the temporary vaccination centres, and we took them back to their homes. What is important is the action we can take to ensure that all people at risk are vaccinated. It is not just a question of law: it is a question of will. Minister, you need more support from local and regional authorities, particularly the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u388	We are therefore voting only on Amendment No 882, since Mr Ruffin does not want to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u389	I call Mr François Ruffin to support Amendment No. 885. The minister has given a particularly detailed answer on the whole subject to the previous amendment: you could jointly defend the amendments that decline various diseases – we are not going to review all those that exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u390	I understand what you are saying, Mr President, but, I repeat, for me, we are dealing with a key element of our discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u391	You've already said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u392	Why? Because we have to choose between, on the one hand, a targeting logic, which is to devote all our efforts to looking for the 5 million people with co-morbidity factors plus the 2 million unvaccinated elderly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u393	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u394	... and, on the other hand, a logic of watering all azimuts. In this case, by opting for the health pass – which is actually a move towards compulsory vaccination for all – the Government chooses not to define the priority audiences. What is he doing, on the contrary? By encouraging the French to get vaccinated very quickly, under pain of not being able to go to the restaurant, the café or the cinema, it is the people who usually go to these places that he encourages to make an appointment thanks to the various applications – that is, the young and connected people – and not the ones who need them most. The fact of watering all azimuths...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u395	That's not what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u396	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...and to force in this way therefore prevents targeting. In fact, it is the denial of the care policy that should prevail, namely the "go towards" approach, "go to seek". Several epidemiology experts express themselves in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u398	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u400	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] It is not the Government that you point your finger: it is the tens of thousands of people, caregivers and community agents – departments, town halls, CCAS – but also all the doctors and pharmacists who listen to you and intend to suggest that they do not do their job, while they have been mobilizing for months! At some point, when you want to do politics to everyone, you have to know who you're talking to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u401	You're in charge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u402	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Contact the associations we gather in video conferencing every week to accompany them in the "go to" steps! The scheme has made it possible to vaccinate 650,000 patients, to cover 92 per cent of collective institutions operating in the solidarity sector and to carry out 2108 targeted operations to vulnerable audiences, as well as 1424 targeted operations to under-vaccinated territories – as the approaches are also oriented according to this factor. Believe me, we're going where no big world is going – you understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u403	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u404	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It seems to me that the fact of responding by adopting such a caricatural stance to amendments which are nevertheless constructive does not raise the debate. I say it very quietly. May I have a little silence to speak, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u405	Of course, even if, for the sake of the matter, it seems to me that the minister had responded on the merits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u406	There is an objective reality: the more social difficulties are present, the stronger are cultural, economic and geographical barriers to access to care – even outside the context of crisis. You know that. We are therefore experiencing difficulties, for the time being, in sensitizing the most vulnerable audiences to the issue of vaccination. We do not claim that nothing is being done: I chair a Territorial Health Council (TSC), in which we have been developing a multitude of initiatives, such as vaccination buses, to vaccinate people for several months. In spite of this, entire sections of the population, especially the most vulnerable, including those who do not have a referral doctor, remain far removed from vaccination. You give the feeling of living in the country of Yes-Yes, but I remind you that there are people who don't have a doctor! There are even medical deserts and places where to have a referral doctor is impossible! Perhaps you have not been told everything, Minister, but it is wrong to say that the CPAMs have been mobilized in all departments to call unvaccinated people one by one. Find out: in Seine-Maritime, Normandy, people have not been contacted individually to propose an appointment near their place of residence. That is precisely what you are proposing to do through the constructive amendments that are before the debate. Hear that we are in favour of vaccination and that we believe that vaccination must be as high as possible in order to get out of the crisis. We are in such a hurry to do so that we have understood that your health pass would discriminate against those who are already the most vulnerable geographically, socially, culturally and financially.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u407	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u408	That is why we are proposing amendments to help you improve our response to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u409	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u410	[[Patricia Mirallès and Lionel Causse applaud]] Like the minister, I agree with you, Mr. Ruffin. However, I am saddened by your argument. I don't know what's going on in your department, and I won't judge what's going on there, but I can assure you that, in mine, healthcare professionals, CPAM staff, as well as local elected officials – not necessarily from our side – are making every effort to get these people. All the political parties represented in this Chamber, apart from perhaps yours, make the effort to contact the isolated people for vaccination. [[Applause on many benches of the Dem group]] You are right on one point: there is still a problem – only, I don't know if we will be able to solve it by law. A person with comorbidities can categorically refuse to be vaccinated. If you know the magic trick that will convince her, I'm ready to borrow it from you and help myself get her vaccinated. But it's not through a law that you can do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u411	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 886.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u412	I have not yet been given an explanation for the fact that France is the last country in Western Europe and the fifteenth most fragile country in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u413	But go to the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u414	That's what the Scientific Council says! You claim, minister, that I accuse caregivers of not doing their job. That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u415	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u416	I'm asking when you'll have the political will to kick everyone off. When the President of the Republic speaks on television, it is to assert his authority and brandish the baton, not to ask himself how to mobilize, throughout the country, all the possible relays to reach the vaccination coverage of priority audiences, rather than to engage in widespread watering. What is at stake is the 5 million people suffering from co-morbidities who are still unvaccinated, and whom we have not mentioned in our many hours of debate: the only moment when the debate is focused on this issue is when I table a series of amendments – and it would almost seem, to you, that I am out of the question, when that should be the heart of our discussions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u417	What a donor of lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u418	What is at stake is the Government's ability to set all actors in motion to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u419	Amendment No 1130 by Mr François Ruffin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u420	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No 1124, which, I agree, deals with a question different from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u421	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are opposed to the health pass, including for minors, but finally, if it were to be introduced, there is no need to adapt science to the President's words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u422	It's an obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u423	How is it that, while a vaccinated person has so far been considered susceptible to covid-19 for fourteen days after the second injection, this is now seven days? According to Dr. Jérôme Marty, "it is a decision that is more economic and social than health." In truth, it is above all a political decision: everything happens as if an order had just been given to the virus. "The studies cited by the Minister of Health," says the doctor, "do not take into account the delta variation, they cover the other variants. It is thus "not sure that seven days after the second dose, one is sufficiently protected against the delta variant." It should also be noted that the rules in force in the European Union have not changed: the presidential speech succeeded in changing the effects of the vaccine on the virus in France, but not at European level, since the 14-day deadline remains in force!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u424	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u425	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u426	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u427	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u428	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u429	The differentiated approach advocated by Mr Ruffin seems really interesting to me. I would like to ask the minister about this, because that is what I was trying to propose in my first speech. Apart from any militant stance, could you consider, in order to avoid the health pass and fears of infringement of the collective and individual freedoms associated with it, postponing vaccination of people without risk factors? Perhaps you can provide us with information on the future availability of the recombinant Franco-British protein vaccine or other vaccines under development, or on opening up to other vaccines which are not recognised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) but which have proven their effectiveness in the large countries in which they have been developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u430	Are you referring to hydroxychloroquine?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u431	Therefore, it would be possible to carry out a targeted vaccination approach of the most fragile, to which more experimental vaccines would be proposed, which may have a little more side effects – for some impossible to assess with only one year of decline – since the benefit-risk ratio is positive for populations at risk; and, for populations without risk factors, to delay by opting for more conventional vaccines, for which we have a setback on methodology. The interest is to focus on the widest possible vaccination coverage so that the vaccination campaign is effective. By adopting a differentiated approach, the health pass could be avoided. If it's a matter of a few weeks or months, do you think it's possible to opt for this solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u432	I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u433	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u434	We're really staying at Ubu King! Earlier, we were told that the virus is circulating in the TGV but not in the RER. Now Ubu decides that the contagiosity will last seven days instead of fourteen. It seems to me that this deserves a scientific explanation! How can the French have confidence in the measures that are taken when, suddenly, the delay is reduced without any explanation to seven days after having maintained for months that it should be fourteen days?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u435	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1064.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u436	For months now we have been calling for the vaccine to be produced in France and for patents to be lifted for the benefit of the countries of the South, because it is clear that the vaccine is part of the arsenal of fight against covid-19. However, other remedies should not be abandoned. What's going on? You announce the abandonment of tests, while they can be a tool to fight the virus. According to a note from the University of Bonn, the tests, for 42% of the German population, played a more important role than the vaccines in the sharp decline in infection rates observed in May 2021. The test therefore remains a tool against the covid-19. [[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Above all, it can be another solution for people who are reluctant to immunize. We should therefore, as part of this bill, unlock the means necessary to deploy tests everywhere, especially in pharmacies and in front of bars. No, that's not the case at the moment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u437	What country do you live in?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u438	The map of test areas in Germany shows sites in front of all bars, cinemas and places of this type, to offer a real different solution to the vaccine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u439	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u440	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u441	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u442	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u443	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u444	In order to avoid any confusion as to what is being said in the Chamber, I would like to commend the efforts and commitment of all health professionals, local actors and social centre staff, who are unanimously involved in the national effort to promote vaccination. I also welcome the implementation, in some territories, of the "go towards" approach, which seems to me to be one of the major levers to step up this effort. I listened very carefully to your comments on the outgoing telephone platform, Minister. His work is to be welcomed, but, as I understand it, it remains for the time being reserved for people over the age of 75 – unless you tell me otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u445	I'm telling you, because we've been expanding his field of action for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u446	I refer to the latest information I found on the health insurance website, which dates back to March 31. It is on this point that, in my view, there is a small flat to bring: in its opinion of 1 July on the intensification of the vaccination campaign, the High Health Authority (HAS) recommends extending the "go towards" approach to certain fragile audiences. Everyone knows, in view of the vaccination data now available, that very large disparities are emerging depending on the communes and neighbourhoods – I am talking mainly about the metropolis of Greater Paris. Having been elected in the 20th arrondissement of Paris, I can testify that vaccination penetration is clearly not the same in the Maréchaux district and in the centre of the district. How could this targeting be intensified? What can we do to support and promote this acceleration? The local and regional authorities, in particular, are ready to help – this is the meaning of Amendment No 703, which we defended earlier, and which I regret has not been adopted – as we are all, so that vaccination coverage will increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u447	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u448	I would like to add a few arguments to the relevant comments that have just been made about this amendment. The first – which is not the least, as we can verify in the coming months – is the pull-out of standards, and therefore of paper certificates, useful or not, which must be controlled by one or the other. This morning, coming down from a plane, I'm proudly heading for the vaccine line. At the end of my tail, I'm about to take out my vaccination certificate, but the people who control me tell me it's pointless because they're content with the test. Depending on the location, you will be asked for a certificate or something else. Whatever the goodwill of decision-makers, all those who have the little power to exercise control will do so by adding their personal touch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u449	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u450	The second reason why I support this amendment concerns me a little more and I will listen with interest to your reply on this subject. François Ruffin has indeed raised an important problem: being vaccinated does not exempt from being contaminated. If you think that, being vaccinated, you cannot contaminate others, you become dangerous. Because, yes, you can contaminate others. We already have testimonies from young people who explain to us that, being vaccinated, they participated in an evening and that they were contaminated – they knew it because they were warned that they were contacts. For my part, I apply the moral principle of absolute individual responsibility. Vaccinated, I'll be tested under certain circumstances. I have the financial means, which is not the case for everyone. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So I warn you: if you say that vaccination cancels the need for tests and that they will therefore become fee-paying, mass contamination may develop, which would endanger those who cannot be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u451	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1043. You will agree, Mr President, that it deals with the same subject as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u452	It seems to me that this is not a negligible subject. The vaccine is presented to us as a miracle remedy. Yesterday, Minister Veran told us that if everyone was vaccinated, the virus would disappear – you can check it out in the proceedings. That's scientifically wrong. The idea that the virus will be eliminated through sanitary passage and compulsory vaccination is both catastrophic in terms of freedoms and dangerous to health. For, with such reasoning, many other tools for fighting covid-19, such as tests, are being denied. It can be said in the press that in Germany it is possible to do two free PCR tests a week and that stands are found everywhere. This makes it possible not to force people to get vaccinated. Such an alternative solution does not exist in France, not only because it is complicated but also because, soon, you will eliminate this means by making it pay. This again demonstrates a lack of a comprehensive care policy. By putting everything on the vaccine, you will rush the French to new disillusionments, to disappointments. In the face of this virus, however, we need a range of tools, the vaccine being just one tool among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u453	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u454	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u455	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u456	Mr Ruffin, I think you live in the same country as us. For a year and a half, you have therefore not been able to miss a tangible and verifiable data: France has made available to all those who need it or want millions of free PCR or antigenic tests. We are the only country to do so. Do not come to expose the German model by explaining that tests would be funded across-Rhin and not at home. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] If you refer to the possibility of considering the end of the reimbursement of the recreational tests once the entire population has been offered the vaccine and when the epidemic wave has passed, I will tell you that, on the one hand, we are not there yet and, on the other hand, you must not take the French – and we at the same time – for hams by explaining to them that the tests would be paid in France while they would be free in Germany. That's exactly the opposite! I heard Mr. Mélenchon say he ended up in an airport today. I imagine he was coming back from abroad because I understood that he was not taking the plane for domestic flights. You live in the same country as us. So you're aware that the tests are free.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u457	You don't have to be arrogant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u458	The hospital doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u459	Arrogance sometimes takes the form of cynicism. I am trying not to be aggressive as you are about us all day and night in this House. I am against any form of violence, be it social or inter-individual.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u460	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Tell your government! What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u461	Mr Corbière, listen to the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u462	Why are you yelling? As I answer you with a smile, you consider it arrogance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u463	Each of your sentences is a mockery!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u464	I could insult you and you scream at it like you do...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u465	I'm doing what I want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u466	...but that is not my mind and that is not how I was raised, Mr. Corbière. In my education, I was taught not to yell at people. Respect is a solid value in society, especially in times that run. Mr Ruffin, an infectious disease has been eradicated from the planet, a second will soon be eradicated. Do you know them, you who say that the vaccine does not eradicate diseases and that it is scientifically wrong to say the opposite? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The only disease that has been eradicated from the planet is smallpox. Do you know how that was possible? By vaccination, with collective immunity. The one that is in the process of being eradicated, which still exists here and there in the form of small infectious households but which is very far from invading the world as it was for many years – it was even the first cause of infant mortality in France a few decades ago – is poliomyelitis. Thanks to what was it eradicated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u467	To the vaccine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u468	Vaccination and collective immunity. Do you know how infectious diseases, such as measles or rubella, that rendered children deaf or created encephalitis, were reduced by 95%? I give it to you in a thousand, Emile: vaccination with collective immunity. So let's try, please, to stick to the facts. Let's not insult science. To the factual question asked by Mr Mélenchon I will give a factual answer. To date, we know that vaccination reduces contagiosity by dividing this risk by at least twelve. This means that, of course, this risk is not zero...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u469	You don't know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u470	You are right, Mr Coquerel: I should read La France's manifesto, I will surely learn more than in all the world's scientific literature, in all the articles published week after week by tens of thousands of scientists who know the subject a little better than you and me combined! The vaccine therefore reduces the contagiosity, it is effective. I note in passing a small ambiguity that always hovers in your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u471	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u472	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You tell us that the imperative is to encourage everyone, especially the most vulnerable and sick people, to be vaccinated. So I'd like to hear you say and see you twitter: "Get vaccinated! I wish you wouldn't have a half-raisin talk about the vaccine: sometimes you say we don't have enough vaccine, sometimes you think the vaccine isn't that good, maybe it's not the solution to everything. The courage in politics is to take a position and assume it with justice and clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u473	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, who is familiar with the profession of pharmacist, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u474	I would like to address Mr. Ruffin, who often tells us the stories of Brigitte, Monique and others Roberte. I invite him – if we complete the examination of the text this night – to come to my pharmacy tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. and to tell, during the parliamentary re-entry, the story of Agnes, who tests and vaccinates in his pharmacy. [[Applause on the SOC and Action groups' benches as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to say that all city health professionals are heavily mobilized to test and vaccinate massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u475	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u476	On the other hand, as part of the "go to" process, I would like to ask the minister whether he can, during this period of health crisis, give permission to health professionals, pharmacists and doctors, to go to the home to vaccinate, especially all people who cannot leave their homes, in agreement with the nurses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u477	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u478	[[Other movements]] I agree with the minister on one point: smallpox has indeed been eradicated by a massive global campaign launched by the USSR, a plan having been presented to the UN in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u479	Long live the USSR!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u480	No, you're not the one who made it! In order to eradicate this disease, the vaccine was distributed massively. Today, however, it is you who oppose the free license on vaccines, even though you ask us to have the courage of our opinions, a courage that we pay so dearly because we do not miss it – and this time again we will not miss it. It is your government that accepts the decision, taken within the World Trade Organization, to continue to consider the vaccine as a commodity while in France, until 1959, it was forbidden to file a patent on a vaccine. I tell you with a smile, Mr.Véran: you too should have the courage to go to the end of your opinions because apparently you do not. You also asked us to intervene. We do it – certainly, in a way that is not yours. We believe in conviction and the virtue of example and we are respectful of freedom. If the World Health Organization believes that it is better to convince than to compel, it is because it knows that when we invent sanitary passes, when we introduce controls at every end of the world, when we produce endless paperwork, we create a society other than that in which we want to live. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Freedom and conviction are also measured by the actions taken. You made the decision to make the test pay. However, even if the vaccine divides the risk of contamination by twelve, this risk still exists. After saying so many things and their opposite in this House, you take the personal responsibility to prevent the most modest of us from being tested and thus to assume their responsibility for being human.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u481	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1140. Recognize that it is very similar to the previous one: it is about pharmacies and stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u482	It turns out that this amendment has crossed the threshold of admissibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u483	I don't dispute it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u484	Thank you, Mr. President. The minister spoke of the end of the "recreational" tests. But who's gonna laugh when you go for a test? The truth is, you decided to put an end to the free testing in the fall, thereby sorting through the wallet. We had already seen that the virus was taking the TGV but not the subway, and now the contamination depends on the size of the wallet! By putting everything on the vaccine, you abandon other tools. I am not saying that these are non-existent, but they should be developed. It is a good thing that we can get tested in pharmacy, but it should also be the case in each canton. I had even suggested setting up test areas for every thousand inhabitants. In Germany, we can do tests in front of all the bars, all the cinemas, and I can do them. As soon as you want to enter one of these establishments, you get tested at the entrance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u485	A fee-for-fee test!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u486	No, it's not paying. There are also Coronabikes there, mobile units that go to meet the inhabitants to offer them tests. The University of Bonn reports that this type of process has proven to be more effective in reducing infection rates than vaccination itself. It is therefore a tool that must not be overlooked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u487	I would point out to you that our average earlier was forty amendments which were discussed at an earlier stage, but it fell to twenty-four per hour. At this rate, we will conclude the examination of the text tomorrow at the end of the afternoon! Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1060.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u488	Mr Minister, you mentioned earlier the firmness of convictions. But it was not us who, a few months ago, swore to the heart that vaccination would never be compulsory and that the health pass would not concern daily activities. I will quote Germany's example,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u489	Again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u490	It's pangermanism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u491	...where test stands have multiplied everywhere. Merkel said last week: "I don't think we can gain confidence by changing what we said, that is, no compulsory vaccination. She added: "We do not intend to follow the path that France has just proposed. » Minister, now that you are making life impossible for people who are reluctant to get vaccinated, how are you going to open another way for them to continue living in our country? If they are able to access tests regularly, they are not likely to contaminate their colleagues or colleagues in the workplace. By programming the end of the free tests for the fall, basically, you are leading an anti-sanitary policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u492	Amendments Nos 1135 by Mr François Ruffin and 277 by Mr Christophe Blanchet are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u493	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 480.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u494	We all know that the practice of cultural, leisure or sporting activities among the youngest – I think 12 to 17 – is often correlated with the sociocultural level of the parents. When children from modest families engage in these activities, we must of course greet and encourage them. When mayors – I'm thinking of my territory of La Réunion – send children to centres to receive school support, we must obviously salute and encourage this approach. In this area, the sanitary pass will be a brake, an additional difficulty. Foremostly, in a territory where the vaccination rate is now about 30 per cent and where it is almost non-existent in the younger age group, the decline will be significant. That is why I ask for the health pass not to be applied for the 12-17 year olds in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u495	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u496	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u497	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u498	Also unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u499	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u500	Minister, on the occasion of this amendment, which concerns the 12-17 year olds, I would like to ask you a specific question. You know that we have a lot of reservations about the sanitary pass. We are disturbed by this point concerning its application: on the one hand, it is indicated that, from the age of 12, certain situations require the holding of a sanitary pass; On the other hand, it is stated that to be vaccinated, it is absolutely necessary to be 12 years old. In concrete terms, how are you going to allow young people to have a health pass from the age of 12 if they cannot be vaccinated before that age? This is a somewhat problematic situation; On this point, I would like to hear the Government's response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u501	I will answer you later if you want, but this is not the time to interrupt the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u502	I call Mr Causse to support Amendment No. 807.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u503	It aims to facilitate access to the places concerned by the obligation to present the health pass to persons exempted from the vaccination obligation. Behind these exemptions from immunization are many personal situations and stories, sometimes involving serious pathologies. The aim is to allow these people to continue to enjoy access to places receiving from the public, in complete ease and responsibility, so that they can find their loved ones, friends and families when they really need them. The amendment therefore proposes to take into account people who today are in a blind spot of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u504	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u505	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u506	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u507	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u508	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u509	Mr Minister, you responded the day before yesterday to my colleague Blandine Brocard on the very rare vaccine contraindications that are identified, namely paediatric multisystemic inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C or PIMS) and polyethylene glycol allergy (PEG). While there are very few structural contraindications – which should encourage all our fellow citizens to be vaccinated – there may, on the other hand, be cyclical contraindications, particularly in the case of the establishment of care protocols for heavy and disabling pathologies. By this amendment, let us allow doctors, within a strictly defined framework, to issue a certification of provisional contraindications of vaccination. The doctor would take responsibility and the scheme would be placed under the aegis of the National Council of the Order of Physicians to prevent any drift. Let us allow this flexibility for very specific patients through the possibility of issuing a provisional contraindication certificate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u510	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u511	I'll tell you right away: it's a soapy slope. I register falsely against the very notion of cyclical contraindication. We have called on all health authorities and all relevant actors. Madam Member, I am sorry, but what you are saying is at present not in keeping with the truth. There is no care protocol that would prevent vaccination against covid, that is not true; Immunodepression and immunoglobulin treatment are not opposed. The list of contraindications is known: anaphylactic shock, pericarditis, myocarditis, severe hepatitis resulting in hospitalization following a first injection of covid vaccine and, as you said, allergy to PEG, PIMS syndrome and Kawasaki disease in children. This concerns a few hundred people. We have discussed it a lot in committee. I will not repeat the argument in every new presentation of the amendments, even when they are tabled by Members of the majority. Forgive me, but otherwise we will not get away with it; It's also the rule of the game. I repeat: for all persons with contraindications, a vaccine certificate of contraindications is not admissible; This requires expertise. Individual solutions will be provided to ensure that no one is penalized. Let me say this: if we relied on the certificates of contraindication to antibiotics that are established, that would mean that 20% of French people have serious allergies to antibiotics. In fact, it is less than 3% of the population. Let's not go in there, please, or we're really not gonna get away with it. Each individual situation will require an individual solution, with humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u512	I have before me two amendments, Nos 785 and 835, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 785.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u513	My colleague Nathalie Sarles proposes that a proof of current vaccination routes, attesting to a first injection, allow until August 30th to have access to certain places. This would provide the necessary flexibility. I mentioned earlier the situation of the building professionals. I asked for explanations after the rapporteur's reply, which I did not understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u514	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u515	Tomorrow, as soon as the law is enacted, these professionals will no longer be able to eat in restaurants. If we want the measures to be effective and the French to implement them fully, we need flexibility. The amendment, also proposed by Mr Borowczyk, is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u516	I already answered yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u517	Amendment No 835 by Mr Julien Borowczyk is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u518	We know that both injections are necessary to obtain maximum protection; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u519	Mr Philippe Naillet's amendment No 109 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u520	I call Mrs Granjus to support Amendment No. 680.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u521	The purpose of this amendment is to identify all places, establishments and events for which the health pass is required. In order to reinforce the obligation to present the health pass and to facilitate its implementation, a specific display – the modalities of which will be defined by a decree in the Council of State – must be carried out in these places. I am thinking in particular of a dedicated pictogram, as it already exists for the obligation to wear the mask or the respect of the gestures barriers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u522	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 625, 688 and 1083. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u523	The bill "has the effect of making a final distinction between workers who hold one of the three documents requested and those who do not". You will have recognized one of the ten concerns expressed by Claire Hédon, Defender of Rights. Beyond our overall opposition to the health pass, this amendment aims more precisely at deleting paragraph 14, which deals with employees of establishments affected by the presentation of a health pass. By requiring these employees to hold a health pass to go to work, you create discrimination between certain employees and others; That's the first problem. More generally, you open the way to generalization. I heard you say and assure mordicus that schools would not be involved. However, in his speech, Emmanuel Macron indicated that the sanitary pass would for the time being concern coffees, restaurants, etc., but that he reserved the right – since it was he who decided – to extend it. After a while, you will eventually extend it to the professional world and we disagree. Already today, some employers are ahead of you: they require a health pass for precarious workers, self-employed people or self-entrepreneurs. You are creating discrimination between employees and importing into the world of work this liberticide measure that you also propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u524	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 688.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u525	He called for the deletion of paragraph 14, which was to make vaccination compulsory for all persons involved in the places, establishments, services or events referred to in section 1 of the bill. This measure is disproportionate and runs counter to the spirit of the text which tends to leave the choice of vaccination to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u526	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1083.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u527	Ruffin, come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u528	We already receive letters: the management of the Fnac has announced to its employees that they should be vaccinated – otherwise, they will be at risk of dismissal; We saw the same thing at Burger King's. Doctor Moreau, a surgeon at the hospitals, alerted me: for the Rhône department, it is necessary to consider immunizing between 10,000 and 15,000 people belonging to the only category of food and beverage personnel, to be distributed between the vaccination centres and a few doctors. For Lyon and its periphery, out of sixty vaccination centres, only five have places available before 1 August. All others have availabilities only after, often in the middle of the month or even in September.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u529	In which country, Mr. Ruffin? In Germany or France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u530	The objective is therefore in any case unattainable in the current state of vaccination possibilities, not to mention the number of doses available or other categories of citizens obliged to be vaccinated under penalty. With this rule, which is to blow up, it is obvious that you may send thousands of people to Pôle emploi. This is the great concern of a number of employees, both those who are reluctant to get vaccinated and who have no real alternative to the pressure exerted by their employers, and those who would like to comply with the new rules we are challenging and who, in any case, will not have time to get an appointment before these measures come into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u531	You're not going back in front of anything, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u532	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u533	From a health point of view, it would be totally inconsistent not to demand from the employees what we are going to ask the customers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u534	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u535	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u536	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u537	If I followed your reasoning, I would not understand myself why police officers and gendarmes, for example, would not be subject to this rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u538	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u539	Tomorrow, they will be able to work at the police station or the gendarmerie quietly, without having a valid health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u540	The virus respects the uniform!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u541	As my colleague Ruffin says, it seems that the virus respects the uniform. It's not about questioning the police and the gendarmes, they're doing their job. What is at stake is government decisions whether or not to subject a particular profession to a rule that will come into force. Once again, I wonder: the argument developed by the members of the Government on television sets is that the police and gendarmes are citizens like the others and that they must therefore have an up-to-date health pass since they themselves go to the shopping centre or restaurant. But this argument applies to all employees. You already put enough constraints to not add the dismissal. Can you hear that, or do you only have the stick in mind? Convincing is always better than coercing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u542	Then immunize yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u543	I have before me two amendments, Nos 386 and 1035, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Gosselin's Amendment No 386 is being defended. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 1035.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u544	Like Mr Gosselin's amendment, it provides for a postponement of the entry into force of the regulation but at a different date. We note, in the course of our discussions, that it will be impossible for those who have embarked on a vaccination course after the statements of the President of the Republic to obtain a health pass before five or six weeks, which refers to the end of September. It is therefore a matter of delaying the entry into force of the scheme until 30 September, in order to allow our citizens time to settle their obligations in a transparent, fair manner. For this, it is up to you to help local authorities put the package on vaccination to avoid too long queues. And let's take a look back to see if there's anything left of the blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u545	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u546	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u547	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u548	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u549	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u550	It is unbearable to note that, for the majority and the Government at all times, it is not, not and not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u551	We have already had this debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u552	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups. – Mr Joachim Son-Forget also applauds]] Again, on a subject of such importance, you have a responsibility to foster harmony. I understand a little better what Mr Macron said a year and a half ago: "We are at war. Compare this statement with the statement made by the German President at the same time: no, we are not at war; All this is a test of humanity. The brutality with which you intend to deal with the French people is in contradiction with the concord that health issues require. You are in the process, I insist, of brutalizing our fellow citizens, when that is exactly the opposite. Our proposals aim to ensure that everything goes well and you are doing everything you can to make things go wrong, which is very worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u553	Don't you dare applaud the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u554	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u555	You said a few moments ago, Mr. Minister, that a whole system had been put in place with health personnel, associations, the primary health insurance fund that offers phone numbers, etc. In addition to this mechanism, Mr Ruffin called for the establishment of life-basin committees in order to provide assistance at this scale; However, you replied that it was not possible to incorporate this proposal into the bill. You want to force it; But the obligation is an admission of weakness. You're there because you haven't been up to it and so you're forcing people. You even threaten them with dismissal. It's very serious. Everyone went through this period badly, including part-time employees, including those who sought a job without finding it. You are therefore threatening those who are not vaccinated, I repeat, of dismissal: this is unacceptable on the part of a government. While we should seek solutions, as we do here, you are not listening, you are listening only to you. You never question yourself. This is the ninth text we are looking at on the health crisis and you always oppose us with the same elements of language, straight in your boots. We will soon end up with a tenth text and you will say the same again. Well, that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u556	I have before me eight amendments, Nos 973, 1113, 403, 643, 873, 22, 226 and 966, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 403, 643 and 873 are identical. I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 973.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u557	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is to postpone the entry into force of the health pass until 30 August. Everyone has already said this: if you are being vaccinated for the first time today, you will have to wait a while to receive your second dose and for vaccination to be effective, and you will be out of time. In addition, we are in the middle of a tourist season and, of course, having to present a pass forced a number of people not to go to the restaurant or amusement parks. I received a message from someone who runs a small amusement park – where the virus is not likely to move at a high speed – indicating that on the very day the health pass came into effect, attendance fell by 40%. It is clear, therefore, that many tourist facilities will be put in difficulty because of this pass. The brutality of the measure was mentioned earlier because it fell on us overnight. It is the State illusion to believe that by issuing a circular, by deciding on an obligation, we will solve a problem – which is very French...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u558	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 1113.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u559	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] I understand that my speeches are annoying, especially since we have been looking at this issue for many hours, but I would like to repeat that we need to be more flexible. I am very much in favour of the health pass, very much in favour of the obligation of vaccination, but I cannot resolve to vote for provisions which are not realistic and therefore not applicable. Therefore, I insist: not everything can be provided for by law and I hope that the decrees will allow the flexibility necessary for the law to be applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u560	She won't get the nomination, but she's brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u561	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u562	This is a bit of the drama of this debate: you want, in a way, in the name of efficiency, to legislate in real time. But, rather than efficiency, it is first and foremost the consensus that you should seek. We represent all the components of French society and we are no more fools than the others. If we alert you to the applicability of the text, it is not by destructive contrast but because we are aware of the flaws of your proposals. You arrive here with a preconceived scheme, translated in the form of a decree, explaining that your device should enter into force immediately. No, because some actors are in the middle of the tourist season. It is not by shifting the application for three weeks that you will harm its effectiveness. On the contrary, such a postponement will give it its full measure. I remind you, however, that the motto of the Republic is Freedom, Equality, Fraternity. In your case of health pass, freedom, many French people wonder what will be left of it as soon as you establish control of all by all. In terms of equality, you create two categories of French simultaneously: those who will be able to be vaccinated immediately and those who, for lack of available doses, will not be able to do so and, despite their good will, will not have the pass. As for fraternity, I assure you that with the rising anger, with the division of society that you are about to establish, we are going back exactly to what we want. You say you are at war but you do the opposite of what should be done: unite the French. And again if your device was effective, but it's not even effective. As you know, there will be no identity checks. We are therefore trampling on republican principles for a health outcome that will prove pitiful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u563	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u564	That is why I hope that we will see the entry into force of the health pass. A little flexibility would show your openness, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u565	The amendments identical to the previous one, No 643 by Mrs Nathalie Serre and No 873 by Mr Pierre Vatin, as well as the other amendments under joint discussion, No 22 by Mr Pierre Cordier, 226 by Mrs Nadia Ramassamy and 966 by Mr Paul Molac are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u566	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u567	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u568	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u569	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u570	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Since this morning, we have explained that time has to be allowed – this is the meaning of these amendments – because of the complexity of the situations and therefore the difficulty of applying the device. I am really afraid, minister, that those who will vote on the bill, when they return to their ridings, will spend their time asking the prefect for adjustments and easing, in the face of the problems that the application of the bill will raise on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u571	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u572	[[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] This is not a debate between the majority and the opposition, but a fight between our fellow citizens and the virus. The signatories of the amendments want time; But do you think the virus gives itself time? We must be reactive and we must give ourselves every means to fight a virus which, I repeat, does not take its time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u573	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 975.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u574	It is intended to remove the obligation for staff in establishments where a health pass is required to present the pass. In particular, the aim is to avoid suspension of wages or dismissal for these employees. We are indeed creating an additional cause of dismissal. It's really serious and it's definitely not what to do. That is why I have asked for a public vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u575	On Amendment No 975, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u576	The Government will propose an amendment No. 1033 to rewrite paragraphs 19 to 21, providing for all measures to avoid dismissal. I refer it back and therefore issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u577	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u578	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u579	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u580	The symbolic violence of the measure envisaged by the Government is not recognized. In the current context, it cannot be imagined that the law provides for people to lose their jobs because they refuse to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u581	Or because they haven't finished their vaccination course, for lack of available doses!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u582	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That sanctions should be defined, but this is both an exclusion from the labour market and a social exclusion. How can some of our colleagues in the majority, who were once left in the Socialist Party, validate such a measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u583	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u584	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] Finally! You've gone crazy! Especially when you know the country's sensitivity on the subject. You are announcing an amendment by the Government to avoid dismissals. The question is not symbolic avoidance, but the disappearance of the text of this type of threat. You will not force the French only by trick, it is not possible. At some point, in this crisis, it is civicism that will save us and civicism, you will not awaken it by strengthening digital control or by increasing intimidation towards people who have the right to ask legitimate questions about how vaccines are distributed. I regret that the Government's amendment is being considered a little late because we need a real discussion on what is one of the strengths of the text and why I will vote against it – I will never vote for a text that allows people to be fired because they refuse to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u585	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u586	We are not examining a minor measure, indeed. You're creating a new reason for dismissal. This, in all its nakedness, is the brutality of this obligation which does not say its name. We cannot, of course, agree with this change in labour law, which, I repeat, creates a new ground for dismissal. This is unacceptable. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] What's going to be crunchy is that we're going to see the members of the group. The Republicans push your logic to the end: since it is the state that imposes these dismissals, it will be up to it to take charge of them. We will therefore have a debate on the State's obligation to finance dismissals due to the failure to present the health pass. Frankly, we can't go in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u587	Since this is a major issue, the creation of a new ground for dismissal, I am opening the discussion. Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u588	The aim is to create a new ground for dismissal based on health status or medical treatment, and this is absolutely unacceptable. We are going to face many difficulties, the French are gradually falling into precariousness, and you are threatening a loss or suspension of wages, in short the threat of making them unable to support themselves and bring them into poverty, because they would not subscribe to the vaccination pass. It's inhuman. Some will no longer have any resources to live. They will not be able to take out unemployment insurance, it will be a situation of suspension of work and remuneration. I find this blackmail at work, this threat of insecurity and poverty, of absolute cynicism. To the health crisis we cannot add a permanent threat of weakening to all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u589	Get yourself vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u590	But stop with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u591	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u592	At one point, it's better to say to the French: "The variant is dangerous, we want to protect you and for that we make the vaccine mandatory" rather than: "If you don't vaccinate, you lose your job".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u593	And without vaccine protection, how are we doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u594	A person who loses his work for gross negligence will not receive any compensation, will lose all his rights, will not know how he will eat at the end of the month. What do you call that? And then you tell us you don't force anyone! From there comes the mistrust that you are setting up in the country and that we have been trying to explain to you for two days. I'm going to tell you about a friend you forced to vaccinate: I saw her the night of her vaccine, I never knew her so upset. He is a person who believed in science, medicine; Now, as soon as she loses a hair, it will be the fault of the vaccine! You have to give people confidence. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You're funny: it's easy to force people to tell them that if they're not vaccinated, they'll be fired, but when it comes to forcing laboratories to transparency, there's no one left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u595	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u596	We're talking about the dismissal of employees because they wouldn't have the medical pass. Is one well aware of what one does: to send back to their homes, without compensation, without work, without income, people who only have this to live? They won't even be unemployed, they won't have anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u597	We condemn them to misery!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u598	I don't know how we can sign this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u599	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u600	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Who in this government could have such an idea? Who could have imagined that by threatening people we were going to force them? Who in our time, in 2021, can imagine that France can function like this? It is France, a country of freedom, that you question, by also making real injustices between categories, when you treat civil servants differently depending on whether they are police officers or teachers, gendarmes or judges. You're missing out on all possible humanity. The minister will answer us that no. I wonder what convictions he could have when he was in the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u601	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u602	Mr Andre Villiers has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u603	Minister, to be right, is that the only thing that belongs to a majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u604	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u605	The majority, in their posture, do not listen to the proposals of an opposition that merely goes back to the testimony of the field. Colleagues, how are your constituencies different from ours? What do the professionals and residents of your territories tell you? This history of the health pass divides the country. It's basically the story of a compulsory vaccination that doesn't say his name. The trust contract is not the time to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u606	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u607	Finally, the only disadvantage of the vaccine would be that it becomes compulsory; I, for my part, do not want to deny the effective protection it constitutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u608	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u609	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the SOC and FI panels]] [[Same movements]] I am very surprised, Mr President, that the debate on this issue is taking place at this point in the text because the terms of breach of contract are mentioned from paragraph 19. The amendment advocated by Mr Molac leads to the removal of the sanitary pass for all LES employees. There was a debate on how to enforce the health pass, but that is not what the amendment says and it is not the right place in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u610	That's not true! The amendment reads: "Accordingly, delete paragraphs 19 to 21. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u611	I had to speak honestly to say it. As we had the debate, perhaps it will be shorter later. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] The Government, in the correct paragraphs, will present a rewrite amendment and you will see that there is no question of dismissing someone who has not been vaccinated as part of the health pass overnight. I will present Amendment No 1033 at the appropriate time. I can read it now if you want, but we will have the debate tonight. Stop this permanent hustle and bust!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u612	We're listening to the minister! This will avoid the debate a little later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u613	The amendment that you are going to vote by public vote concerns the removal of the health pass for LES employees. The Government's amendment deals – I read his summary statement – with the "effects on the professional relationship of refusing to present the health pass of persons subject to this obligation, depending on their status as employees or public officials. It makes it possible to establish a dialogue between the employer and each public official or employee in order to facilitate the use of the health pass and to make every effort to regularise the situation in relation to this new obligation and thus avoid putting an end to his or her duties or employment contract. You can see that we're here in something supple. "For example, this amendment provides for the possibility of taking leave for the necessary steps, suspending the duties or the contract for a period of at least two months and examining the possibility of reclassification to another position. We are far enough from the dry lay-off. I continue: "At the end of the two-month period, the possibility for the employer to initiate proceedings for the dismissal of executives or dismissal is opened,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u614	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u615	... according to specific arrangements and adapted to the different populations concerned. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u616	And what's the name of a frame-deletion? Dismissal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u617	I was still a Member of Parliament not so long ago and I understand that for every duty, there are consequences in the event of non-compliance – either we were happy, we created a sanitary pass and nothing happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u618	You had to think about it first!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u619	We are very far from the outrageous positions I have heard in some speeches, claiming that we lack humanity, that we are going to fire everyone. This is absolutely not at stake and, given the number of vaccination applications we have been registering for a few days, which will continue, the health pass will be respected by all employees in this country. I do not share the concerns, let alone the inhumane trials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u620	In that case, let's just remove the pass!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u621	[[Other movements]] Mr David, yes, I sat on the benches of the Socialist Group and I was very proud to defend sometimes courageous positions that were not in the wind; Maybe that's why I'm in this majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u622	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Guillaume Chiche and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] [[Same movements]] Mr Minister, I have not at all interpreted your statement at all, far from that, as a challenge to the Presidency, but it happens that this amendment provides for the deletion of paragraphs 19 and 20 which envisage a dismissal scheme; It is therefore entirely legitimate for both of us to have raised this issue and to have had this debate, since it is a question of opening up a new cause of dismissal. If we were in a labour law debate, we would have taken a day on that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u623	All right, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u624	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u625	Paragraph 19 is very clear: "Where a person to whom the measures referred to in 1° and 2° of A apply does not present the evidence, certificates or results required by those provisions to be presented to him, his employer shall by any means notify him of the suspension of his duties or of his contract of employment. This suspension, which is accompanied by the interruption of the payment of the remuneration, shall cease as soon as the person concerned produces the required proofs. That decision shall be notified to it by any means on the same day. This means that an employer can dismiss an employee on this basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u626	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u627	Here, Paul Molac read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u628	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u629	Like the minister, I would like to put things back in their place. I have tabled, in paragraph 27, an amendment – perhaps it will fall – which does not allow for dismissal. However, paragraph 14 referred to the health pass and not to dismissal. Mr Molac's amendment is tabled in paragraph 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u630	Mrs Dubois, stop with that, the amendment that we are about to vote on provides for the deletion of paragraphs 19 and 20, so it is normal for us to debate this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u631	If we vote on Mr Molac's amendment, we will delete the pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u632	No, paragraphs 19 and 20 are deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u633	And the pass!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u634	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u635	On what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u636	I hope that this is a real point of order, because the FI Group has already spoken: no comment on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u637	That is not a point of substance, Mr. President. For the sake of clarity of our debate, I would point out that Amendment No 975 provides for the deletion of the end of paragraph 14 and paragraphs 19, 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u638	I think I've already said that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u639	The rehearsal, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u640	I put to the vote Amendment No 975.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u641	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 170 Number of votes cast 158 Absolute majority 80 For adoption 71 Against 87
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u642	Amendment No 482 by Mrs Jacqueline Dubois is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u643	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u644	It aims to shift the application of the health pass to 15 September 2021 in order to give our fellow citizens time to take the necessary steps. We remain opposed to the health pass, but at the very least we hope that the French can prepare for its application. The date of 1 August appears premature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u645	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u646	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u647	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u648	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u649	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u650	Our right-wing colleagues have tabled a number of amendments that go in the same direction as Pierre Dharréville's, but at no time did the Government think it was right to explain to us how, in practice, the scheme will be implemented. According to the testimonies we receive, it sometimes takes several weeks to get a first vaccination appointment. However, it is only one week after the second dose that the sanitary pass is valid. Even if the non-vaccinated French decided now, they would not have the sanitary pass for six to seven weeks. What will happen during this period of time? Amendment No 213 is a matter of common sense: in order for people to continue to live and work, the application of the health pass must at least be staggered. The Government does not reply to us when we have asked him about it dozens of times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u651	I asked for the floor! Mr. President can't hear the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u652	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 572, 173, 948, 56, 164, 170, 223, 260, 469, 479, 925 and 759, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 173 and 948 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 56, 164, 170, 223, 260, 469, 479 and 925. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 572.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u653	It also aims to shift the application of the health pass, which will have significant social and economic consequences for staff covered by paragraph 14. We propose an entry into force on 1 October 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u654	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 173 is being defended. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 948.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u655	This is once again a common sense amendment. You ask LES employees to have completed their vaccination journey before August 30th, while even healthcare staff have until September 15th to do so. It will be materially impossible for LES personnel to be vaccinated by August 30 and to obtain a valid medical pass to work. This amendment therefore proposes to extend the date from 30 August to 30 September for these personnel. If you do not change that date, you would face great difficulties. Think of our economy! Don't the business leaders you meet tell you that the activity is restarting and that they are struggling to recruit? Do you really want to create new difficulties for their employees? The gesture I'm asking for is simple and obvious, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u656	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u657	Amendment No 56 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 164, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u658	The constraints must be the same for all. That is the point of this amendment tabled on the initiative of Mrs Brenier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u659	Amendments Nos 170 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 223 by Mr Stéphane Peu are defended. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 260.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u660	The aim of this coherent amendment is to ensure that at least two dates coincide in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u661	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 469.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u662	Give time to time: that is the objective of the amendment. It takes time to register for vaccination, but also time between the first and second injections. Minister, with the support of the majority, you are refusing to grant the benefit of the health pass to the primary victims. With this amendment, we propose that you give the French time and avoid the trap to which your bill exposes them, because the time limits it provides do not allow them to benefit from the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u663	Mr Vigier's Amendment No 479 is being defended. Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 925.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u664	The vaccination process takes some time in France, either because of the lack of doses – we have seen it for several weeks – or because the time between the two necessary injections is important. Given that vaccination of persons between the ages of 18 and 40 was opened on 29 May and that it takes four to six weeks between the two doses, it cannot be expected that this population of more than 15 million individuals will be vaccinated by 30 August. In the Yvelines department, of which I am elected, almost 130,000 people are waiting for their second dose and will therefore be penalized by the entry into force of the sanitary pass on 30 August in the places mentioned in paragraph 14. Unvaccinated persons were under little pressure until the announcement of the President of the Republic. They were only recently encouraged to be vaccinated and received both doses at the earliest in mid-August. It is therefore logical to give them more time to organize themselves, especially since the summer holidays make vaccination difficult, since a large number of French people have left their place of residence. The amendment is therefore intended to postpone the entry into force of the health pass until 15 September.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u665	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 759.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u666	I also propose to shift the application of the health pass, but as of 1 September.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u667	Why not September 1st, 2030?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u668	Between 30 August and 1 September, only two days ago, you will tell me, but with this amendment, it is a matter of drawing the Government's attention once again to the main flaw of the bill: its lack of legibility. Harmonizing the dates of application of the various provisions by choosing the single date of 1 September would have the merit of clarity. Because, I told you, the French don't understand anything about it anymore. Some provisions came into force yesterday, others will come into force on August 1, while others will come into force on August 30, September 15 and September 30. How do you want the French to be there? We could probably choose another date, but September 1 would allow us to spend the summer and would be easy to remember – it's back to school. This date would thus contribute to the clarity and legibility of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u669	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u670	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u671	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u672	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u673	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u674	There are several theories on time: Einsteinian time, Baclardian time and now macronian time. We are witnessing a reinvention of the space-time through which the French will be vaccinated in a few days while in principle it would take a few weeks. We already know that millions of people will not get into the nails of the device, but it's no big deal: the law will produce a new space-time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u675	It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u676	Despite appearances, it's far from funny. You do not measure the rage that you will trigger in those who refuse the sanitary pass, but also in those who will not get an appointment fast enough and will not be in the nails in time, among those who will risk being fired... All this to keep the timetable set by the Government, when we have no information on how the deadlines can be met in practice! You are well aware, basically, that this is not possible, but you are acting as if the adoption of the text was enough. It is not because the text will be adopted that the timetable will be kept!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u677	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1089 and 670, which can be discussed jointly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1089.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u678	As you said earlier, Mr President: what is happening today discreetly, in the summer half-life, at the end of the afternoon, is a real change in the labour code. The provisions we are looking at would have deserved to be debated for several days as they upset the relationship between the employer and the employee. In a Figaro gallery, a lawyer specialising in labour law observes that employees should not be forced to show a health pass in order to work. He wrote: "Parliament seems to be about to vote unscrupulously for a text which, however, is breaking down a fundamental principle of labour law. » We propose to exclude employees from the restoration of the vaccination obligation, especially since they will not be able to get an appointment in time to get vaccinated and they will have to wait several weeks to present a valid health pass. You know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u679	You also know that this sector will lack arms, like many others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u680	I would like to warn you once again about the rabies that you are going to trigger in employees exposed to the worry and danger of losing their jobs because they will not respond to your injunctions, impossible to satisfy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u681	Amendment No 670 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u682	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u683	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u684	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u685	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u686	Obviously, we do not understand each other. Many of you have expressed concern about the health situation and I do not question the sincerity of your intentions. However, take the measure of what we are in the process of deciding. In a democracy like ours, the employment contract is the only contract that provides for a relationship of subordination between one person and another. I will not open the debate on whether it is right or not, but I would point out that this subordination report is entirely linked to the nature of the task to be performed and to the wage relationship. Today you add a social clause: from now on, the subordination of the worker will be determined not only by the fact that he is the worker and that he does not possess the instrument of production, but also by the fact that his body and health are directly related to the exercise of the task he performs. This is a novelty of such magnitude that it deserves to be stopped longer than we do! You know as well as I do that totally arbitrary acts can result from the provisions we are considering. It would be sufficient, in fact, for Peter, Paul or James not to have obtained his vaccination certificate in time or for his health pass not to be valid within the time limit for him to lose his job. Colleagues, can you imagine the extent of anxiety, anxiety and social, family and emotional destabilization in the daily lives of people that such a measure would entail? How can you be cruel enough to decide such a thing? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The World Health Organization, to whom you claim to be superior in situational intelligence, advocates freedom rather than obligation. On the contrary, you introduce a new violation of freedom into the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u687	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u688	The right is concerned about employers – certain provisions of the text, which complicate their activity, indeed justify it – but allow us to concern ourselves with the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u689	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u690	By introducing the possibility of dismissing persons because they are not vaccinated, you unilaterally question a substantial clause in the employment contract. Not content with destroying labour law, you add a new ground for dismissal, which will be baremized and compensated and which will lead to many human and social tragedies. In doing so, you refuse to take into account a social reality that we have been insisting on for hours: people who refuse the vaccine for ideological reasons are a minority; As for the others, who have not yet been vaccinated, they must be convinced and put in a vaccination plan as close as possible to them, so that they can enter into this adventure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u691	You've already said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u692	I've already said it, but as you don't hear, I repeat. If you hear our arguments, vote on our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u693	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u694	You offer a beautiful illustration of your authoritarian posture: the liberals you are wave the trick and the stick, and always tap the same – the weakest. We therefore propose that you give up your bad idea, which will also cause recruitment problems and imbalances in companies. Since you hear our arguments, extend this listening by voting on our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u695	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard's amendment No 63 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u696	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u697	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u698	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u699	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u700	[[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] With your dismissal provisions, Minister, the most serious thing is that you and the Government are making a complete mistake. You're wrong. The device you are installing will be ineffective, for a simple reason: with this type of measure, you kill the most valuable public health asset, trust. You are making a complete mistake by imagining that by this threat and this extreme constraint, you will push some of our fellow citizens reluctant to get vaccinated. This is your first fundamental mistake. You will create a fracturing in society and a breakdown of trust, even beyond the people we are talking about here. Many of our fellow citizens are vaccinated and in favour of vaccination, but opposed to your measure. You are nourishing a climate of distrust. Your second fault is being blind; But the only eye that remains sees you badly – more precisely, it sees only with the glasses sanitary measures. The least we can say is that in this matter, you don't see very clearly! This was already the case with the masks; It is today with the pass and the vaccination strategy. You forget to look with another eye, which is necessary when you are Minister of the Republic: respect for our fundamental principles. You are touching on a substantial part of the labour relations of our fellow citizens, and that will make case law. Don't pretend the opposite: you said a few weeks ago that there would be no sanitary pass, but we are voting for it. These two mistakes – the breakdown of trust and the weakening of our fundamental principles – are serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u701	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1092.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u702	As I have already said, I would prefer that we have a frank debate on the vaccination obligation of the entire population...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u703	Are you in favour?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u704	...even if I'm against it, rather than a split debate. I am for vaccine freedom, as was the President of the Republic at first – the difference is that for my part, I did not change my mind. At first, you were all in favour of vaccine freedom, but you have all changed your mind: the Playmobils stand behind the President's wishes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u705	Don't talk for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u706	When the President says "vaccination freedom", you return to the chorus of "vaccination freedom"; when it says "obligation", you return to chorus "obligation". I would prefer to have this frank debate, rather than to deal with the issue in instalments: we are told that the employees of the catering industry must immunize themselves, then those of the hospitals, then, in this case, those of the shopping centres. A year ago, we greeted the cashiers who, in the second line, had ensured the continuity of the nation's activities during confinement, and had allowed people to feed themselves. Those same cashiers you greeted last year – without any gain, since social plans continue to eliminate them from shopping malls – will be threatened with dismissal by your law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u707	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u708	We want the cashiers to be preserved,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u709	Then tell them to get vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u710	... with the other employees of the malls, and that no one is forced to immunize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u711	I call Mr Damien Adam to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u712	It aims to change the date of application of the health pass, particularly for persons between 18 and 55 years of age. Although vaccination has been available to those over 55 years of age for many months, it was only opened to those under 55 years of age on 30 May, with at the time a period of 35 days between the two doses, plus a period of 15 days of validation of the health pass. It therefore seems unfair to submit this public to it from 1 August. In the same spirit, the committee voted on an amendment which postponed the date of application of the health pass for minors until 30 September. A seven-day run-off period was announced by the Government spokesman, Gabriel Attal, but you must take into account the later opening of vaccination for the 18-55 year-olds. We therefore propose to postpone the application of the health pass to this public by 15 days, to set it at 15 August.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u713	I have before me two amendments, Nos 451 and 70, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to support Amendment No. 451.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u714	I'm reopening the debate on indoor and outdoor activities – on a misunderstanding, you never know, it can work! The purpose of this amendment is to expressly provide that the requirement to present a health pass does not apply to activities outside Europe, as in the majority of European countries: the risk of transmission of the virus is lower outside. If there must be a sanitary pass, we consider that participation in outside activities should not be subject to the presentation of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u715	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u716	The scientific evidence – which we now know quite well – indicates that the transmission of the virus is weak outside, except in gatherings where people agglutinate. It is therefore proposed not to apply the health pass to outside activities, provided that social distancing is respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u717	Amendments Nos 734 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 83 by Mrs Patricia Lemoine, which may be the subject of a joint debate, are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u718	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 830.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u719	We are frequently asked by mayors whether small village demonstrations can take place. We are now subject to the decree of 21 July; When we ask the prefects about the interpretation they make of it, to judge whether a particular manifestation can take place, the answer is imprecise – not because of lack of professionalism, but because it is difficult to forge a doctrine on the subject. The following intermediate answer has been given: if you can control access to the space where the demonstration takes place, the sanitary pass must be required; If you cannot do this, because the event takes place in a diffused space, there is no need to require the pass. That leaves me at least perplexed. What details can you give us, Minister? Mayors and community leaders are questioning us, but we are struggling to answer them precisely. I would be grateful if you could clarify the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u720	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u721	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u722	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u723	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u724	We're waiting for an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u725	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u726	I am not surprised that you did not answer the specific question of Mrs Genevard, Minister: it was precisely your inaccuracy that allowed you to break with the will expressed by the National Assembly when it created the sanitary pass last May. At that time, we affirmed that the pass should not apply to everyday life, nor to outdoor activities – except for large gatherings such as festivals. What did you do with this rule and these principles, which were clear and which gathered consensus among Members? You drew from it a decree, published yesterday, that imposes the health pass beyond fifty people and for all the elements of everyday life, except those for which the law that we voted prohibits it. With your bill, you will be able to demand the sanitary pass for absolutely everything – you will find a trick to impose it on anyone who wants to move around the street! That is why, for the past two days, we have been asking you to clarify and make a commitment to respect the spirit of the text, beyond the letter. Otherwise, you will seek to maximize its effects, and you will eventually control the French permanently, anywhere and at any time; They will have to constantly present their papers and telephones: it will become invivable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u727	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u728	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I don't know what to say...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u729	Yes, we can see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u730	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We may not finally live in the same world! Everyone is free of his opinions, Mr Schellenberger, but I understood that during the Prime Minister's consultation of the political groups, the health pass had rather received a favourable response from your group. Where are the Republican parliamentarians who are in favour of it? Obviously, only those who are opposed express themselves here. It is so much simpler: we have butter – we tell the French that we are in favour, because they are too – and butter money – we teach the majority in the Chamber day and night. However, I have rarely received so many messages, on social networks, by e-mail or SMS, from French people who do not understand these debates and are concerned that the health pass cannot be applied to protect them. Everyone receives their own messages, but I wanted to warn you: our debates are very watched. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Forgive me, Mrs Genevard, I had a second absence – this can happen. We have 1200 amendments to consider, I spend my days and nights in the Chamber... It's a real happiness, and I hope it's shared! I've been being yelled at for days by a handful of Members coming and going – you're not one of them, Mrs Genevard, too, I'm very happy to answer you. I understood that with this appeal amendment, you wanted to know how the sanitary pass would apply at village holidays. Article 47-1 of the Decree of 1 June 2021 specifies that the health pass may only be applied at village holidays for activities which may give rise to checks. The prefects confirmed that this would be the way the measure would be applied, i.e. that a village party spread or on the streets is not likely to give rise to control. If, on the other hand, the party is located in a particular place, inside or outside, with activities giving rise to filtration, because it is custom or for reasons of safety, then the sanitary pass can be requested. Everything is therefore specified in the decree and this has not raised any objection from anyone, in particular from the elected representatives who are the first concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u731	The prefect will open the umbrella!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u732	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u733	Who said: "I am against the sanitary pass in the restaurant [...]. In fact, I spoke very early months ago. [...] No, we are not installing a system of sorting or selecting people according to their health status."? You recognized yourself, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u734	What a movie! Mr Ruffin, you really are a bad actor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u735	Yesterday, on these benches, Mr. Pradier asked you a question, but at a time when you were absent. I think it's useful for you to rest it because it's relevant. Can you tell us, right in the eye, that if there is a sanitary pass there will be no containment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u736	An idiotic question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u737	We're sitting on public freedoms, changing labour law. In return, are you convinced of the effectiveness of this measure and can you tell us, by looking straight into our eyes, that there will be no containment? Or, in the event of confinement, as the demonstration of the ineffectiveness of the measure is staggering, will you automatically cancel the use of the sanitary pass? When we are prepared to sacrifice, as you do, a whole section of public freedoms, at least you have to give us very strong guarantees of the effectiveness of this measure which is not a measure. If you are not 100% convinced that this measure will prevent us from a new curfew and confinement, it is not worth taking it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u738	What an idiotic reasoning! We don't make a prognosis, but it's about taking steps to avoid the worst!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u739	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u740	It provides that the regulations concerning the implementation of the health pass must be decided in consultation between the prefect and the mayor of the municipality concerned. I remind you that in previous episodes of this crisis, the mayor-prefect couple was mainly experienced by the mayors in the following way: it is the prefect who decides and the mayor who executes. In this new phase of the health crisis, which is increasingly tense and I regret it, fully involving the mayors could only make the measures more acceptable to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u741	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u742	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u743	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u744	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u745	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u746	In several departments, the parliamentarian and the mayor have learned, by means of the press, that the mask became mandatory again from that date in the communes of the department, by decision of the prefect. Don't tell me that meetings take place prior to this decision, because in the department of Meurthe-et-Moselle, to take a concrete example, last Saturday, a press conference was held by the prefect who said that the mask became mandatory again in the communes of more than 5000 inhabitants – it is mandatory since yesterday. Neither mayors, departmental councillors, nor parliamentarians had been consulted before. As journalists call us to ask our opinion, we can only answer them that we do not know. That is why the amendment before you is very important. On paper, it is written that the prefect will not take the decision alone, but it is the opposite that has happened, and I am sure that many parliamentarians would raise their hands to attest that this has not happened in a single department. The prefect decides then he tells us he didn't have time to call us. No, the prefect must not take the decision alone, he must first call the mayors and the elected representatives concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u747	Mrs. Fiat is right, once again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u748	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u749	Mr Minister, as we can see, the epidemiological situation is changing rapidly, which prompts you to take urgent action and to convene Parliament, but tomorrow it can change in a different way. This amendment is therefore intended to give you the opportunity to reduce the list of establishments affected by new applications related to the health pass in the event of a positive change in the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u750	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u751	With this amendment, which I have already defended in committee, I propose that the application of the health pass should end as long as the circulation of the virus is no longer a serious enough danger to justify it. Even though I have heard what you have said to me in committee, rapporteur, that my amendment is already satisfied – which I am contesting – I assure you, in view of the reactions I received after the same amendment was rejected in committee, that the writing in the black-on-white law of this provision would greatly reassure the French and make this bill much more acceptable to most of them. I repeat, it is a question of legibility and precision of the law. Therefore, this becomes a question of acceptability of your text, since this acceptability is far from being present at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u752	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u753	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u754	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u755	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u756	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u757	On this amendment, there should be a response from the minister. When will the medical pass stop? It is well known that the measures taken in extraordinary times, which violate freedoms, tend to persist in more ordinary times. This measure is counterproductive today in times of crisis; But when, on the other hand, do you intend to put an end to it? What criteria have you used? When we hear the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications tell us that the crisis opens a window of opportunity for a more proactive transformation, we can see that there is an opportunity to introduce authoritarian liberalism, liberalism with companies, authoritarianism with citizens. The truncheon and the punishment you bring as an answer to a virus may bring into society for a long time what you do not want to record for a long time, or even for a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u758	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u759	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u760	A good law is a law passed by a well-informed Parliament. We understood that the rapporteur was not playing tennis, but maybe the minister was playing tennis. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Three simple questions were asked. First, do you guarantee that the development of vaccination and the sanitary pass will save us the containment? It is simple to answer yes or no. Secondly, can you say before Parliament that these exorbitant provisions of the common law, which have a worrying beginning, will have an end? Thirdly, can you state in the text that when the health situation is improved, these exorbitant provisions of the common law will come to an end? It is simple to answer yes or no. But neither the one who does not play tennis nor the one who plays tennis answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u761	Stop! It's not even funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u762	If you know the answer, raise your hand and give it to me! I don't know her. In order to inform our discussions, it would be useful if we could have answers to these simple questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u763	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard's amendment No 60 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u764	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u765	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u766	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u767	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u768	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have simple questions. First, can you guarantee that in addition to the application of the sanitary pass there will not be a containment in the fall? I've heard people on the benches of the majority say to me: it's always worth trying. Like it's a little thing! When we sit down on public freedoms, ask everyone for papers, it's just a little thing that would be worth trying? Secondly, after my colleague, Mr Jumel, I ask you when you plan to end this health pass. We open a window; when do we close it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u769	When there's no longer this virus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u770	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u771	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds]] I'm stunned by what we can hear. Indeed, in view of our attitude as parliamentarians, to cut the hair in four, it is certain that we will reconvene. When we look at the contamination rates in the 20-40 age group, in three weeks the virus will have been spread to the rest of the population and the number of resuscitations and deaths will be counted. The only solution that works, even if it may not be perfect, is the vaccine. Do we take the bull by the horns? Of course, many things are inconsistent, but we will all be responsible for the disaster that will happen. It is not possible to discuss infinity everything that is wrong. Look at the contamination rates! I am overwhelmed by our collective inability to act quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u772	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 896.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u773	This amendment by my colleague Paula Forteza aims to alert the situation of the French abroad, which is not taken into account in the elaboration of the restrictions related to the health crisis. Yet they are French in their own right. To date, vaccinations administered outside our borders are not valid for the benefit of the health pass, even when vaccines are approved by the European Union. Vaccinated persons must apply to the health insurance which may give them a certificate, but the certificate does not allow them to issue a QR code. And we're not talking about French people vaccinated with unapproved vaccines, because there's nothing planned. The measures taken by the Government must be adapted to their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u774	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u775	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u776	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u777	I will go along with what Nicolas Turquois said. Many questions are asked in connection with the text, and I am happy to take the opportunity to answer as much as I can, but there are others that are put to the floor by some Members, often the same, when they have found an answer in the debate in committee or in the Chamber, once, twice, three times, four times. When the same questions are asked by the same Members, I no longer know whether to continue to answer and hammer the same answers or wait for it to pass for an opportunity to work on the text. Mr. Turquois has just said that it was urgent to legislate and apply the health pass. Today's figures, which I haven't mentioned yet, are not good: there are 22000 infections, 48% more hospitalizations over a week – I say that for those who consider that there is no health impact and that it is not moving in the hospital – 72% more admissions to critical care and resuscitation within a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u778	And we're talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u779	Of course, we're starting quite low, but we haven't seen such a dynamic in terms of resuscitation in previous waves. Finally, this is the first day that covid mortality in our country is increasing by 14%. The mortality rate remains, of course, much lower than previously reported, but this increase, of 14%, is considerable. Mr Ruffin, I am going to give you a comprehensive answer and, like you, I am going to scream in the microphone to make sure that you hear me, even if I sacrifice the eardrums of all your colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u780	But it's not okay, is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u781	You asked me a question by yelling at me three times. I'm teasing you because you're not listening to me. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The sanitary pass, Mr. Ruffin, we need it right now. Is that the balance of any account? If someone tells you they have the answer, it's a prediction, not modeling. What I know is that the less you have a sanitary pass, the more likely you are to have a containment: that's a certainty. What I can tell you, too, is that we will apply the sanitary pass the necessary, sufficient, minimum time and that from the first day when we can say that the sanitary pass is over, we will do it, as we did for wearing the mask outside. But in the same way as you say now that we have removed the obligation to wear the mask outside too early, I have no doubt for a second that the day when the sanitary pass will be removed, some of you, who are against today, will tell us that it may be a little too early to lift the constraint. [[Same movements]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In short, we are not here to – forgive me the expression – piss people off: we are here to protect them. You're here to legislate and we're here to move forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u782	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u783	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I give the minister time to enjoy his oratory triumph that will win him the green wood flight you deserve. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Colleague Turquois, I value you very much, but I will tell you the following: if you want to make us responsible for the misfortunes that will come to the country, on the pretext that we would not obey you quickly enough, in my turn I could tell you that I would gladly make you responsible – which I do not do – for having called me all the names when we announced to you that there would be a second wave,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u784	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u785	... for making fun of us when we announced this fourth wave to you in April and May – we're not smarter than everyone else, but we're getting a little bit of information – and because all the decisions you've made since the beginning have been useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u786	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u787	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's been going on for months and, from orders to counter-orders, you've been turning the country around by making decisions that don't have any kind of effect! You're asking for how long we're going to debate, minister? But it's our duty! Our duty is to do our job as a Member of Parliament, which is to try to convince our colleagues and that is what we do, once, twice, three times; and if one argument is not enough, we present another because we are convinced. And it is your duty, do you not mind, to answer us and if possible without making too much fun of us because we also have a referee. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Are you announcing a disaster for August 1st? I'll let you know for the next year, if the situation stays what it is. What did you do to organize the school year in case the epidemic continued? Where's the rolling company? Where's the class division? Where are the air scrubbers? What are you doing to ensure the production of the oxygen bottles we need? Nothing! You're agitating. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] When we ask you when you plan to end the sanitary pass, there is a very simple answer: call the sanitary pass "pass covid" and say that there will be no more pass when there will be no more covid!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u788	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u789	I see that here, in this Chamber, everyone has a computer. To protect your computer from viruses, you buy an antivirus, but it is not always enough, and to avoid any risk you add firewalls. The sanitary pass is our antivirus: we are putting it in place to avoid having to re-define it again, quite simply. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we, the elected representatives, are able, each in its territory, to explain what vaccination is, to convince all those who need to be vaccinated to do so rather than to read fake news – that's what I'm working on – then we will have achieved our goal. That's all we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u790	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-22-E1017.u791	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on the management of the health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
