ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the reform of insurance brokering and brokering in banking and payment services (No 3979).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u2	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u3	Today we are looking at the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee which took place a week ago. The provisions of this law had already been adopted by both chambers within the framework of the so-called PACTE law – on business growth and transformation – but they had unfortunately been censored by the Constitutional Council as a legislative cavalier. I wanted to re-examine them in the form of a bill, in order to structure the market for intermediation in the insurance, banking and payment sectors. Indeed, the many professionals involved need structuring: they are faced with numerous regulatory changes, particularly at European level. It is also about protecting consumers. Indeed, there are still many difficulties in the field, particularly in the area of mediation between clients and intermediaries in banking and insurance. To protect consumers, it was necessary to structure the profession in order to fill a gap between the professional access check provided by ORIAS – the Organization for the Single Register of Insurance, Banking and Finance Intermediaries – and the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the CPRA. At first reading, the Assembly made a number of improvements to the text, in particular the obligation to notify an exclusion and the establishment of structural continuity between ORIAS and the CPRA. In addition to some editorial changes, the Senate has also made improvements, for example, by providing professional associations with the opportunity to make recommendations on business practices. The creation of these associations will complete the structuring of the market. Many objected that the difficulties of the brokerage market were not specifically caused by French professionals, but rather by those involved in the free provision of these services – LPS. European law does not allow us to make their membership of a professional association compulsory. However, the consumer will have more information about the quality of the broker he is dealing with, hence the way to choose him well. The market will be structured, and mechanically LPS brokers will have to join professional associations in order to be more transparent towards French consumers. I therefore reject the objection. To protect consumers and structure markets, professional associations will be essential. They will accompany local brokers in changing their market and profession, in terms of digital, legal and training. They will also provide a reassuring mediation service for the consumer. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to reiterate my thanks to our colleagues in this chamber, with whom we have been working constructively, bringing structural elements to this text, to improve consumer protection. A telephone start-up measure, based on the opinion of the Financial Sector Advisory Committee (FCAC), has been introduced in order to increase professional accountability, readability and consumer protection. Again, this text is structuring; It has been adopted by both chambers on two occasions, and we can only be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u4	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u5	The text before you reflects the legislator's commitment to meaningful reform, both for brokers and consumers. After a reading in each chamber of Parliament, I thank all the parliamentarians involved, and the rapporteurs, Valéria Faure-Muntian for the National Assembly and Alberic de Montgolfier for their outstanding work. The combined efforts have led to a consensus proposal, as the Joint Joint Committee's adoption shows. I would like to highlight the significant improvement related to the amendment adopted in the Senate, which strengthens consumer protection through effective regulation of telephone marketing in the area of insurance. Between pure swindles and abusive swindling, there is a set of highly questionable practices, which need to be stopped. These new provisions, based on the work of the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, reinforce the information of policyholders, explicitly prohibit sales "in a time" and specify the manner in which consumer consent is collected. They also provide for the obligation to keep records of sales calls for two years. This will enable the CPRA and the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – to clean up the market by effectively detecting those who, through unacceptable practices, profit from and abuse the fragility of some of our compatriots. More generally, the Government welcomes the quality of the work of parliamentarians on all benches in both assemblies, through which the text is detailed and improved. I am thinking in particular of the provisions aimed at strengthening the guarantees provided to brokers in their relations with approved professional associations, such as the simplification of the withdrawal of membership, the obligation to justify any refusal of membership and the right to appeal in the event of such refusal. I also stress the relevance of the new provisions that strengthen the competences of future accredited associations: for example, they will be allowed to notify a decision to refuse membership to the CPRA and other associations. Finally, the Government fully endorses the decision of the Joint Joint Committee to revert to the drafting adopted by the National Assembly concerning the verification of the good repute of employees. In fact, ORIAS is not in a position to carry out such a task, but future associations can usefully contribute to it by accompanying employers in their efforts. Other contributions from this bill deserve to be welcomed: the future professional associations approved will allow the brokering profession to organize itself, in a logic of accountability. They will be regulated by rules that will guarantee both their independence and their impartiality. They will operate in full compliance with European law, as they will not have supervisory tasks and will not constitute competent authorities within the meaning of the Directive on the distribution of insurance. These associations will also help strengthen our community brokerage network. It has many individual entrepreneurs and very small businesses, which contribute to the life of the territories. The challenge of this reform is to support professionals, who sometimes feel alone or lost when it comes to complying with demanding regulations, such as the legal obligation to take 15 hours of training per year, which European law imposes on insurance brokers, or the obligation to offer a mediation service to consumers. The reform only concerns brokers and their agents. This is an assumed choice of the drafters of the bill, which we agree with: the objective is not to over-regulate but to act only when it is necessary. The text specifically targets professionals who are not supported in the exercise of their business, insurance brokers, as well as those in banking and payment services, and their agents. [[The rapporteur applauds]] At the end of the debates in the Finance Committee of the National Assembly, the date of entry into force of the text was 1 April 2022; The Government welcomes this choice, which will finally allow the actors concerned to implement the provisions of the reform in the best possible conditions, with the best legal certainty. The Government therefore gives its full support to this bill, which is important for the future of the brokerage network and for the protection of French consumers; it hopes that it will be promulgated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u6	Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u7	I wonder why the urgency is so great. I have always found this text surprising: it does not bring much. What justifies its presence in an overloaded parliamentary calendar? No one really answered the question. It is a question of introducing a form of self-control by professional associations, which do not have control power – it is complicated to explain. The Constitutional Council annulled, as a legislative rider, a provision introduced by way of amendment during the examination of the PACTE law. All of this happened very quickly, and the timetable for consideration of this text in the Assembly and the Senate has been really tightened. More fundamentally, this proposal raises the question of the relevance of a new stage of control of the insurance and banking and payment broker profession. Would it not have been simpler and more cost-effective to rely, as has been suggested, on existing regulatory tools, including the registration procedure with ORIAS? The ORIAS, poor ORIAS, had to be changed on the grounds that it was not capable: it would have been so if it had been changed and given more resources. On the one hand, ORIAS carries out administrative, training, information monitoring and dissemination of good practices, on the other hand, the CPRA carries out its control activity: all this would have worked very well. What is the point of constantly calling for simplification and reduction of administrative burdens if it is to introduce new administrative or para-administrative strata at the turn of each new piece of legislation? Everyone says: we should try to adapt European law by avoiding overtranspositions. This is another missed opportunity. Madam rapporteur, it is certainly very important to protect consumers, everyone agrees, but it is equally valid to protect citizens from administrative complexity. I don't see why creating such complexity. The approved professional associations that will be created following the adoption of this bill will at best be able to exercise only a limited part of the supervisory tasks of the insurance broker profession. Similarly, they will be able to issue recommendations to their members to promote good institutional, professional and commercial practices but will have no control over the provision of advice and sales practices, since Community law prohibits such control from being exercised by professional associations. I also regret that a blind spot as important as it was when the bill was tabled remains: foreign actors involved in the free market will most often remain outside the scope of the new regulation, since their membership in professional associations will be based on volunteerism. It is well known that the supervision and control of foreign actors is one of the main problems and concerns of the profession. Another provision, concerning the supervision of telephone pick-up by insurers, had been introduced by the Senate. This provision caused considerable reluctance and concern on the part of professionals in its initial state, particularly as it extended to persons already clients of an insurer, as well as to those who asked to be contacted to enter into a contract. The CMP has made it possible to change this point, since the wording chosen, which is the result of a compromise, limits, fortunately, much more strictly the scope of the new provision. On the question of the creation of approved professional associations, the fact that the text remains frozen at the drafting date of May 2019 is completely unsatisfactory. That is why I will not vote in favour of this text, which introduces additional administrative complexity, whereas France needs the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u8	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Noël Barrot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u9	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done for several months with all the stakeholders in the insurance brokerage sector. There is great interest in meeting the actors, listening to them and trying to find the best solutions with them. I would also like to welcome our fellow senators, with whom we have been able, in the Joint Joint Committee, to reach a fair and balanced agreement. Banking and insurance intermediation markets have developed very strongly over the last decade, due to new consumer habits, the low rates that lead credit institutions to outsource certain tasks, and the development of new products such as the new forms of pension savings permitted by the CAPTE law. If access to these activities is controlled, the banking and insurance operations carried out by intermediaries are subject to relatively flexible control. Intermediaries are theoretically subject to CPRA control, which is not systematically carried out due to the size of the structures. Moreover, these markets are poorly structured and the strong growth of intermediaries calls for better supervision and control of these professions. However, due to the market break-up, direct monitoring by the CPRA should be excluded. Drawing on the existing scheme for financial investment advisers, which has made it possible to regulate this sector properly, the bill aims to create a self-regulation of the insurance brokerage market, based on compulsory membership of intermediaries in professional associations, whose role will be complementary to those of the CPRA and the ORIAS. It is not a question of taking them away from the powers, as some are concerned about, because, on the contrary, they will allow for more effective control. The reform proposed by the rapporteur seems to us useful for two reasons. First of all, it responds to a consumer protection imperative in important moments of their lives, such as the choice of insurance, banking services or a real estate loan. Such decisions often involve our fellow citizens for a lifetime and we cannot let them escape any supervision. This text also allows for a step forward for intermediaries, who will find reliable interlocutors in the newly created associations to accompany and advise them, particularly in the field of regulation. These associations are complementary to the CPRA and the ORIAS, which in no way exercises a consultative and accompaniment role, because it has neither the competence nor the resources to do so. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats supports this text, as emanated from the Joint Joint Committee. Our parliamentary work, both in the Assembly and in the Senate, has made it possible to enrich it, in particular by guaranteeing the adversarial, impartial and independent procedure for withdrawing the membership of an intermediary, within the framework of the disciplinary powers of the new associations. We could not delegate disciplinary powers to these professional associations, without guaranteeing to these same intermediaries guarantees of the independence and impartiality of the procedure: it is a matter of justice. I also welcome several other developments resulting from our deliberations, such as the possibility for associations to alert other associations in case of refusal or withdrawal of membership. This alert system will prevent an intermediary from breaching particularly seriously the rules of the sector and hence the conditions of accession, so that it does not go from association to association to start again. The Senate also wanted to give more importance to associations in the area of conflict of interest prevention, and we can only welcome that. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Finally, with regard to the provision of insurance by telephone, the Joint Joint Committee's proposal allows for better consumer protection while preserving the situations which justify such a standstill, in particular where the subscriber or potential members are at the origin of the contact. For all these reasons, Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u10	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u11	According to the Government, the text we are considering, which is the result of the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, is a reform expected by brokers and consumers. Without repeating all the history, let us recall that it takes over a device introduced by an amendment adopted during the examination of the bill PACTE and censored by the Constitutional Council. This proposal for a law takes up the idea, with the aim of responding to an all-out development of insurance brokering activities, which is still difficult to control. Indeed, if brokers are subject to increasing supervision at European level, following the Directive of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance, the conditions of exercise imposed on them are poorly controlled, as this striking example shows: there are 24470 brokers and 32557 intermediaries in banking operations and payment services, while the supervisory authority carries out 70 checks per year, which illustrates the need to better regulate the sector. This bill thus constitutes a step forward, by empowering the profession and disseminating good practice, to the benefit of the consumer. It should be noted that some remaining shortcomings in the original version of the text were filled in the parliamentary shuttle and then retained following the Joint Joint Committee, which we welcome. We also welcome a number of contributions, including the possibility for any association to notify other associations of its decision to refuse membership, as well as the obligation to give reasons for this decision. However, while we support the bill's ambition to organize access to and exercise of the profession of broker in insurance, banking and payment services, our discussions with the representatives of this profession have made it clear that this text is not revolutionary. Our colleagues in this chamber have pointed out that. Several pitfalls in the sector will persist, such as the problem raised by the freedom to provide services, protected by European law, which prohibits the compulsory accession of foreign brokers operating in France. On the other hand, we regret that professional associations are not empowered to monitor compliance with sales practices and the duty of advice vis-à-vis customers, even though they may issue recommendations to their members in this regard, which is very logical. At the end of the day, they will be able to exercise only a relatively limited part of the tasks of professional control. Following the same logic, why not make the choice to amplify the role of ORIAS at the time of registration of professionals, which would have had the merit of avoiding the creation of a new level and simplifying things? The text contains other shortcomings, such as real estate brokering, which is of interest to our fellow citizens. Our group welcomes the provision introduced in the Senate on the supervision of telephone stalling, although its scope is still too limited, the version adopted by the Senate being more ambitious than that contained in this text. The problem is real because aggressive marketing of health insurance products or funerals to the elderly is recurrent. Such practices are a scourge not only for users but also for other actors in the sector, as they affect their credibility. The distinction between solicited and unsolicited calls is positive, although many circumventions are still possible for solicitors. Let us hope that this provision will not give rise to a referral to the Constitutional Council, which could indeed consider it a legislative cavalier. In view of all these remarks, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u12	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u13	I will repeat what I have already said on the occasion of the first reading, since the text has changed little and the stakes have not changed at all. We are in the same situation: it is proposed to allow a sector to self-regulate, without control, because this sector should not be overly controlled, with control ultimately remaining vested in the CPRA. As far as control is concerned, we have mentioned a great deal about customers who may be the victims of fraudulent procedures or constant calls, in particular by means of telephone marketing offering insurance in various fields and for various products. In addition, anyone who buys online, which is quite common in the current period, is now also offered the same products when they complete their online purchases, for example by phone call. [[The rapporteur nods her head as a sign of disapproval]] I listened carefully to the comments of the Secretary of State that insurance brokers need to be organized, as it would be much simpler for the DGCCRF. In recent years, like the rest of the ministry, this famous Bercy Competition Directorate-General has undergone some rather drastic budget cuts, as well as cuts in its staff, thus in its control capabilities, which have melted like snow in the sun. I have just found a 2018 Senate report indicating that the number of controls has increased from 160,000 to 110,000. You tell us not to worry, that the controls will be done by the DGCCRF and that there are fewer and fewer. Yet fraud is exploding. The reports of the Ministry of the Interior or INSEE, which conduct joint victimization studies, show an explosion of scams of all kinds, including insurance. To reassure yourself, it is also the role of the CPRA to control this type of activity, not to control professional organizations but only parentage, which is a fairly small control. Do you know that the CPRA has, to date, a little less staff than it had eight years ago, while its missions have continued to grow and the scope of the activities to be controlled is enormous? One could have imagined an upsurge in the CAPR – originally ACP, which became ACPR in 2013 – that is just over 1,000 people currently working there. Is that satisfactory? No. Without discussing insurance brokering, we could have taken the opportunity to know what means are being used to combat those who do not respect the rules of market judges. In my view, brokering activities are not so essential. In theory, insurers and banks are supposed to give citizens, their customers, all the information they and they need to make their own opinions. It is therefore not asked why a broker would be needed to act as an intermediary, but let us leave this substantive debate aside. Brokers exist and have the right to practise their profession. You can see that at every stage, there are missing links to the chain. So why draft a bill based on a censored provision? What was his goal? Was it to promote one or another parliamentary colleague, within a network formed? In essence, what is the purpose of this text, while so many other debates must be put on the table? I don't understand him well. I told you this: together with my colleague Jacques Maire, a member of the majority, we began, as part of our mission to assess the means devoted by the State to the fight against economic and financial crime, the hearing of the representatives of the DGCCRF, the Treasury, the COLB – guidance board for the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism – and soon of Tracfin – processing of intelligence and action against clandestine financial circuits – or the PNF – the national financial prosecutor's office. I can announce at the outset that the report that we are going to give paints an unspeakable image of the state and of us parliamentarians, who vote annually on a budget that does not give our administration the means to hunt down those who fraud, escape tax and thereby exempt themselves from their duty as citizens who command them to contribute to the collective effort, the general interest and the homeland. Again, as at first reading, I will break the consensus. I will indeed vote against this text. You will therefore not be able to rely on unanimity on a particular subject, although you have agreed on a joint committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u14	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u15	As we did on the first reading of the text, we will have reservations about the drafting of the CMP, which leads to a number of misunderstandings on our part. On the substance, we fully understand the need for legislation. Intermediation activities have developed considerably in recent years, without the need for legislation to adapt or for material means to control it. However, we believe that the solutions proposed in this text do not meet the challenges and tend instead to complicate the current situation. Insurance and banking brokers must already register with ORIAS to practise and can then be controlled by the CPRA, but the text proposes to insert a new layer between the other two: the approved professional associations. Membership in these associations will be compulsory for professionals to exercise, with the exception, however, of foreign actors involved in the free supply of services market, for which membership will be optional. From this stage on, a first problem arises: the system is outside the scope of regulation, some of the players, even those who potentially pose the most problems and over whom it is even more difficult to exercise control. Beyond membership to the card for some, and the break in equality it can create, the role of professional associations remains relatively unclear. Moreover, it is not explained in the text, since many provisions will have to be laid down by decree, thus increasing the uncertainty about the operation of the system. The associations will not resume the on-site and on-the-spot monitoring mission, which will remain the sole prerogative of the CPRA. Rather, it seems that they will exercise some sort of ex ante control, at the time of accession, over declaratory elements that the professional will have willing to provide – a procedure that is very similar, you will agree, to that already applied by ORIAS. It must be noted that we have not been convinced of the effectiveness of such an architecture, particularly with regard to the articulation between associations on the one hand, and the ORIAS and the CPRA on the other. While the Commission has reported on the difficulties it faces in controlling professionals, the proposed legislation does not seem to provide for any additional strategies or means. On the other hand, it creates compulsory membership of an association, a kind of second registration that we feel is useless, if not counterproductive. You who make simplification the alpha and omega of your policies, often to justify deregulation measures, especially when it comes to taxation or labour law, you take the opposite path, in terms of the control of insurance and banking operations, by making it more complex. There was a simple alternative architecture, mentioned in our committee work. It would have been possible, on the one hand, to extend the role of ORIAS, so that it could itself initiate ex ante control of the declarative bases that you wish to entrust to the associations, and, on the other hand, to strengthen the resources of the CPRA in order to increase its control capabilities on the basis of the ORIAS register. Why didn't this alternative solution find thanks to your eyes? After listening to the debates here and in the Senate, we did not get any answers on this point. You will be able to see, Madam rapporteur, that the misunderstanding, far from being specific to our group, is shared on many benches, as the explanations you have given have remained vague. We cannot even rely on an impact study, which could or should have justified the choice of a solution, since no such study has been carried out. The few developments that have taken place in the Senate on telephone stalling and the strengthening of the role of ORIAS cannot alter the position that we adopted at first reading by abstaining.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u16	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u17	The proposal for a law on the reform of insurance brokering and brokering in banking and payment services, defended by our colleague Member of Parliament for the Loire, Valéria Faure-Muntian, adopted at first reading in the National Assembly on Wednesday 27 January 2021, and which we are considering today in the text of the Joint Joint Committee, which has been concluded, represents a real reform in terms of structuring and simplifying a large and poorly regulated market. Discussions with senators, prior to the Joint Joint Committee on March 10, 2021, allowed us to change the legislation by providing for the registration and retention of exchanges between brokers and customers as part of the call-up and by requesting that ORIAS not control the records of employees – a request from the land we have heard. Since the beginning of our mandate as parliamentarians, which began in June 2017, the deputies of the presidential majority have been constantly acting for the simplification and transformation of our businesses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u18	We didn't notice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u19	...which was the case, among other things, with the PACTE law, promulgated in May 2019. The reform of brokering is fully in keeping with this law by its desire to simplify insurance brokering. Our commitment and parliamentary mobilization are intact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u20	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u21	Since regulation of insurance brokering and banking operations is increasingly complex, it is essential to structure this market in order to protect consumers in the best possible conditions, while preserving local brokers. The majority of them do not belong to any association or trade union. We change things by the root. Developed – whatever is said – in consultation with insurance players, the bill will allow insurance brokers to self-regulate by forcing them to join a professional association. It will act as an intermediary between their profession and CPRA. The provision will concern insurance and credit, which will make it possible to strengthen the inter-occupationality between these two professions, for more structuring, simplification and, I insist, regulation. The association will also allow brokering professionals to better train in order to develop new skills and thereby respect consumer rights. It will verify that insurance brokers have strong training that is tailored to their business. It will also offer professional mediation to their members, who will therefore be able to be accompanied in better conditions. The context of the health and economic crisis that we are experiencing today also shows that many companies need to be accompanied in terms of risk coverage and that insurers will have to meet these new challenges. The bill, scheduled to come into force on April 1, 2022, aims precisely to address these issues: better self-regulation of the sector, more local brokering and better consumer protection. [[The rapporteur applauds]] I thank our rapporteur, Valéria Faure-Muntian, for the excellent work she has done over the past several months to present us with this piece of legislation that the LaREM Members will vote without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u22	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u23	Today we complete the legislative path of your reform of insurance brokerage and brokerage in banking and payment services. Let us say at the outset: if you have managed to reach an agreement in a joint committee, the members of the LR group remain very reserved and even particularly critical of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u24	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u25	How can we not, when your reform is in any way contrary to the objective of simplification which should animate us as legislators and that your majority had itself made it a priority, in dogma itself, when considering the CAPTE law? We are very far from this simplifying ambition, or even the shock of simplification, to cite an expression that comes back from time to time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u26	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u27	The text that you are asking us to vote will indeed impose new administrative and regulatory layers, even though there are already in our arsenal, regulatory tools, including ORIAS, on which you could have relied more. This new layer of control of the brokering profession could be rigorously agreed if it were to better protect the consumer but, on this point, the usefulness of the reform is not established and nothing in your arguments is such as to reassure us. Indeed, the proposed legislation will not address the difficulties faced by brokers or consumers. I am thinking in particular of the dysfunctions of freedom to provide services or of the sometimes unfair commercial practices observed in the sector. In short, the rapporteur, this is a binding and complex reform, with hypothetical effectiveness – if not null and void. The rapporteur of the text in the Senate himself acknowledged that the mechanism would have only limited effects. Moreover, even at this stage of the debate, we continue to wonder in many ways about the relevance of this legislative vehicle. Others have already asked you the question: why has such a reform been submitted to us through a bill? If we are very committed to parliamentary initiatives, we know very well, because we were not born from the last rain, that this reform comes from the administration and from Bercy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u29	It is therefore surprising that it did not take the form of a bill, which would have required the advice of the Council of State. This judicious and relevant opinion would have informed us much more than your explanatory statement, which is limited to a few vague principles and simple and beautiful statements of intent. You are asking us to vote almost blindly on a particularly complex text, since no reliable information on the real consequences of the reform could be provided to us. Madam rapporteur, you are constantly presenting your text to us as a means of strengthening the control of the conditions for the marketing of insurance products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u30	A historical reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u31	On paper, how can we not subscribe to this ambition? It remains to be seen whether the proposed law really contributes to this. But your answer on this point is still far from convincing us. Moreover, the reform is anachronistic since it complicates the work of a profession in a particular economic context: the current crisis threatens the economic model of many intermediaries, of which almost 70% are self-employed. In this respect, fortunately, Parliament has shown wisdom, since the date of entry into force of the reform could be postponed by a few months – that is to say 1 April 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, the last observation: despite certain uncertainties raised by the Senate, there are still, as it stands, several blind spots that weaken the scope of this reform, the main one being that this new regulation will not apply to foreign actors involved in the market for free provision of services, because their membership in professional associations will only be voluntary. Yet the monitoring and control of these foreign actors is one of the main problems and one of the main concerns of the profession. For all these reasons, the rapporteur, Members of the Republican Group, maintain their original position and will not vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u32	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u33	Coming from a provision adopted at the end of summer 2018 in the PACTE law, then censored by the Constitutional Council in May 2019, the project of self-regulation of the brokerage sector has resurfaced at the beginning of the year in a rather unexpected way, in the midst of a health crisis. After many debates between our two assemblies, it is worth recalling that brokers are not subject to the permanent control of the CPRA today. Deficiencies have been revealed in many areas, including the marketing of complementary health contracts or mediation. As part of the Senate's work, the topic of telephone contacts and the abuse of telephone stalling was discussed. However, the IDU and independent group is very involved in this issue since it was the law of 24 July 2020 by our colleague Christophe Naegelen that strengthened the Blockel system. It must be noted that for many of our fellow citizens, the scourge of telephoning persists in the form of unsolicited recurring calls and aggressive sales techniques "in a time", particularly in the insurance sector. The text was based on work...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u34	Excellent work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u35	Always in the shade!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u36	Excellent indeed, it is good to recognize it. We're here to work together...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u37	Every time people listen to us, it's going well, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u38	We welcome the work of senators who have passed amendments to regulate unsolicited business calls under insurance contracts. They provide for an obligation to keep records of sales calls for a period of two years. In addition, insurers will be required to request written confirmation of the oral agreement on a durable medium – e-mail or mail. We welcome the strengthening of the contractual arrangements for our citizens. However, we wish to make some reservations, which have also been raised by many colleagues in the Joint Joint Committee. The proposed law, consisting of a single article, is intended as a mechanism to support the development of insurance brokering activities, providing that the actors concerned – more than 60000 brokers – must adhere to a professional association approved by the CPRA. However, the obligation to join a professional association, whose financial burden is estimated at more than €20 million per year, is a bad signal to a profession that is trying to be resilient and adapt to the high financial instability of recent months. Indeed, it is obvious that the State simply delegates its responsibility by adding a level of control exercised by an additional structure. Indeed, in addition to the timetable that is not in favour of such a measure, it seems clear that the State does not wish to deploy more resources. This control outsourcing system complicates the system, while the CPRA and ORIAS already exist. We regret that the transfer to the ORIAS of the good repute control of the leaders and employees, as desired by the Senate, has not been retained by the CMP. In fact, recognised professional associations will have to exercise only a relatively limited part of the monitoring tasks. Madam rapporteur, you have referred to the qualitative leap in the service provided by professionals when it is rather a complexing of the procedures that affect them. Although, after the Senate's review of the text, we welcome the advances in consumer protection, the text still has many limitations. We believe that instead of weakening public institutions, we could have transferred to ORIAS and the CPRA the means to exercise the necessary controls to ensure effective consumer protection. Finally, this text protects consumers from French brokers without really solving the major problem of foreign brokers in the free provision of services. This is regrettable because it creates real confusion, not only for the players in the sector but also for consumers. In addition to the risk of censorship of certain provisions by the Constitutional Council, we do not think the text's progress is strong enough, even if some are in the right direction. So, as at first reading, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u39	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u40	The bill that we are considering today, before it is finally adopted by the majority, aims to establish a regulatory framework for intermediaries in insurance brokerage, banking and payment services. By forcing these intermediaries to join representative associations approved by the CPRA, which, according to some, could cost around 500 euros a year, you propose a form of regulation allowing legitimate brokers to sanction their counterparts whose practices would be harmful. You add a level of control to assist the regulatory bodies: the CPRA for the controls and the ORIAS for the certification of intermediaries. If the risks of failure to compensate insured persons naturally require answers, let me again put questions about both the form and the substance, to which the Joint Joint Committee did not reply satisfactorily. We have a number of problems. First of all, we are convinced that the text could have proposed an alternative mechanism, which would have been less costly. In this way, your reform places a significant financial burden on the actors concerned, whose additional cost is estimated at €20 million per year. It could have been envisaged to propose to the ORIAS that its tasks should be expanded, since it already has some of them and has the financial and material capacity to exercise, at almost constant cost, almost all of the tasks envisaged by the reform. Secondly, there is a risk of non-compliance with EU law. You have included in the text the concept of control, which is in fact not in conformity – even if you have a little difficulty in admitting it – with the provisions of the Directive on the distribution of insurance, which prohibits States from delegating control of business practices to professional associations. Thirdly, we find it difficult to understand why the text does not apply to general staff and intermediaries in the free provision of services. Moreover, the draft law does not make it compulsory to join professional associations of foreign intermediaries involved in the free provision of services on French territory. This is a legally unjustified breach of equality between national actors and those of other EU Member States. Let us also note the lack of transparency in the functioning of future approved associations. In the current wording, nothing obliges a professional association to accept membership even if the conditions are met. Nor do they have to justify the reasons for this refusal, and no recourse is open to professionals. Finally, your text provides that these associations will be responsible for collecting the data necessary for regulation by the two reference authorities. What is the point of entrusting the collection of information to professional associations approved by the CPRA and then forwarding it to the ORIAS? Finally, giving the actors the task of collecting the data for the supervisory bodies themselves is also giving them the possibility of only partially transmitting the data necessary for regulation. Removing this risk from the back of the hand is at best naive, at worst deliberate, dangerous and fundamentally contrary to the ethics that should prevail. I repeat: this text, by colliding with the tasks of the actors in the sector – the ACPR and the ORIAS – and by adding a device in an existing regulatory system, questions about its real effect and the administrative complexity it creates. As I have had the opportunity to make it clear in our amendments, we fear the drifts that your reform could bring about. Worse still, we fear that it only has the effect of disarming public power. At the very least, we would have liked a report to be submitted to Parliament, two years after the reform came into force, to assess whether the expected results were achieved without any impact. This proposal was accompanied by the possibility for ORIAS and CPRA to conduct their assessments and provide their views on the subject. We relied on you to allow this report: it cost nothing and would have allowed us to dispel our fears. You're better at legislating when you're well informed. It is only through such a report that we could have known whether this reform has the desired effect and that we could have done our best if we had made a mistake. Madam Secretary of State, you promised us, during the parliamentary shuttle, to accept this amendment, but the commitment was not fulfilled. There will be no evaluation or warranty, and we just hope not to have to repair the broken pots in a few years. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] While the Senate has provided some guarantees to consumers in the context of telephone trade relations, too many questions remain about this text. For these reasons, we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u41	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u42	First of all, I would like to welcome the compromise reached by the Joint Joint Committee on this bill. Senators provided high-quality first-reading work to improve the proposed arrangement, and then sought compromise in CMP. It is a rich and solid text that will enable, I am convinced, to participate in the structuring of the brokerage market. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work and her commitment since the start of the discussion of the text. In substance, as several speakers have said, the bill is the result of work undertaken several months ago. In fact, it takes up part of an article of the PACTE law, censored by the Constitutional Council, which considered it to be a legislative horseman. As you have pointed out, the rapporteur, the aim of this text is to structure a market that has developed considerably, while strengthening consumer protection. In order to do this, your proposed law provides in its single article the creation of professional associations with compulsory membership approved by the CPRA. The structuring of the insurance, banking and payment brokerage market has been made indispensable due to its exponential development. There is an increasing number of players and they operate within a sometimes complex regulatory framework. The desire to offer better support to brokers is commendable and meets a real need, especially for small structures and brokering professionals working individually. At the same time, consumer protection will be strengthened by more effective control. Approved professional associations will be able to play a complementary role to that already conferred on CPRA and ORIAS. Our group is pleased to have been able to bring several safeguards to this text during its consideration in committee in the National Assembly, in order to protect brokers and improve the mechanism. I am thinking in particular of the obligation on approved professional associations to justify their refusal to join, a measure of common sense which we have proposed by way of amendment. Our amendment to provide insurance brokers or their agents with remedies in the event of refusal to join an approved professional association will also protect brokers. We believe that these two measures will secure the situation of brokers and make the accession procedures and possible refusals of membership by professional associations more transparent. We therefore welcome the contributions of the Senate retained in the Joint Joint Committee, in particular the possibility for any association to notify the CPRA and the other associations of its decision to refuse membership; the possibility for associations to make recommendations to their members on business practices and conflict of interest prevention; a better framework for the distribution of insurance products by telephone. On this last point, we welcome the drafting of the compromise reached in CMP, which seems to us to be more secure for the actors concerned. [[The rapporteur and Mr Christophe Euzet applaud]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of this bill, which, in our view, strikes a good balance between consumer protection and the support of industry professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u43	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u44	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u45	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u46	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u47	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law improving the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response. (No 3941).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u48	Mr Dimitri Houbron, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u49	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the group to which I belong, to act together, which trusted me last November to defend this bill. It will be the first of our group to be finally voted on; I am particularly honoured. I also thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, and your services, for the quality of the work we have done together on this bill. Of course, I would like to thank François Petaux, the administrator of the Law Commission, as well as Cécile Carrière, the co-worker of the "Acting Together" group, for their work with me for months. Without these shadow collaborators, we would be very little. Finally, I would like to thank the parliamentarians, starting with the deputies, by quoting, among other things, on all the benches, Blandine Brocard, who actively contributed to enriching this bill, and Didier Paris, the author of a high-quality report on the work of general interest. And I welcome those senators who, notably through the rapporteur Alain Marc, have not distorted the philosophy of the text in order to enrich it. The Joint Joint Committee met on 4 March and thus managed to reach an agreement in a spirit of open and constructive dialogue. I welcome the fact that a parliamentary consensus has emerged from a resolutely trans-party perspective. With this bill, we have never claimed to revolutionize criminal proceedings. On the other hand, we have set ourselves a simple goal: to help improve the effectiveness of community-based criminal justice. The French are attentive to everyday disputes and to the fact that small offences are the subject of an effective, prompt and proportionate criminal response. This is our common challenge: to restore the effectiveness of justice to the cement of our Republic. I know, Minister, that your mobilization, as well as that of the Government, on this issue is sincere and complete, as evidenced by the unprecedented budgetary efforts made under the 2021 Finance Act. On the substance, this bill seeks to amend criminal proceedings on two main lines, which correspond to Articles 1 and 2b, on the one hand by widening the scope of measures which may be pronounced at the stage of alternatives to prosecution, on the other hand by facilitating the use of work of general interest – TIG – as a penalty. For example, it will allow the prosecutor or his delegate to ask the offender to restore the things that he has degraded – the famous principle "You break, you repair", defended for several years by my colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel, finds here an application – or to pay a "citizen" contribution, capped at 3000 euros, in favour of an approved association of assistance to victims. The text also seeks to remove barriers to the performance of public service work, which is an effective and useful measure for the reintegration of convicted persons. The sentencing judge will now be free from cumbersome procedures that slow down the use of TIGs, which will at the same time make it possible to revalue the role of prison officers in integration and probation, which I would like once again to welcome. Finally, I would point out that Articles 3 and 4 provide respectively for a reduction in the amount of the fine for fifth class violations when they are lumped out and for various procedural simplifications before the Court of Cassation. The general balance of this bill has been preserved by our honourable senators, who have introduced several articles that are in the right direction. I am thinking, for example, of Article 1a A, which allows for the membership of the industrial accidents and occupational diseases branch of social security of persons engaged in unpaid work as part of a transaction with the mayor. In the same way, article 1 of the Senate provides that the divestment of the thing used to commit the act may be carried out for the benefit of a non-profit legal person designated by the public prosecutor when it is a thing owned by the author and over which no third party is liable to have rights. This is one of the proposals put forward by our colleague Blandine Brocard, from the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, during our debates at first reading. It is precisely in this spirit of consensus that I hope that the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee will be adopted by this House today. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will conclude by telling you that we will never do justice anything other than a human and, in this regard, necessarily imperfect. But because justice is always human, it must never divest itself of this part of humanity and of the hope it carries for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u50	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u51	As we know, petty crime is not the prerogative of the suburbs of our metropolises. It is present throughout the territory, in the large agglomerations as well as in the small and medium-sized communes of our countryside. It is therefore everywhere that it degrades the living environment of our fellow citizens. Worse still, it feeds a sense of impunity that undermines our social contract and that we must respond to. This requires increasing the speed and visibility of the judicial response. As you know, the bill that we are discussing for the last time is aimed precisely at fighting more effectively against offences – tags, garbage fires, insults, urban rodeos, petty traffic – which degrade the daily lives of the French and, to use euphemism, exasperate them. In this respect, the bill is fully in line with the road map I set myself when I arrived at the Chancery, in agreement with the Prime Minister, which is to bring justice closer to our fellow citizens. That is why I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and its chairman, Olivier Becht, for allowing this text to flourish in the parliamentary calendar that we all know to be particularly busy. The evolution of the bill in the course of the debates owes of course a great deal to the rapporteur Dimitri Houbron, whom I would like to thank very warmly – not to mention to the Member of Parliament Didier Paris, who worked with him to enrich the text. The best indication of the quality of their work is, of course, the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, which I very much welcome. It will allow the bill to come into force in the next few weeks; It was essential to see its effects as quickly as possible, particularly with regard to the timing of implementation of TIGs. Indeed, in order to respond to low-intensity crime, the essential objective is to promote the principle of rapid punishment-repair: "You break, you repair and you compensate the victims. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u52	You have to be solvent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u53	This is tantamount to increasing the visibility and exemplaryness of the action taken, as well as the speed and pedagogical nature of the criminal response for the perpetrators and for the victims. This need for protection, the presence of justice as close as possible to the French, and these reduced deadlines required, first of all, additional resources, which we deploy throughout the country: 1100 jobs of contract workers have been created, of which 950 have already been filled. In Marseille, where I was last week, twenty people came to expand the jurisdiction in a few months. This is unprecedented and I can assure you that the magistrates of this jurisdiction welcome it. Proximity justice also requires a criminal policy that guarantees the speedy resolution of small disputes and the care of our most fragile citizens. To this end, judicial actors must reaffirm partnership relations with local elected officials, associations and actors on the ground, in order to provide more appropriate responses to incivilities. As of 15 December 2020, in a policy circular, I have made sure to strengthen the fairground hearings and permanences in the places of access to rights, which are now called "justice points". I have asked the public prosecutor to ensure that the prosecutors' delegates are mobilised throughout the country so that they are closer to our fellow citizens. I have also issued a decree of 21 December 2020, which clarifies and expands their missions by allowing them to hold relocations. I want to pay special tribute to them here. Proximity justice is finally more effective, faster and constructive penal provisions. This is the purpose of the bill for which we are regrouped and which complements the alternative measures to the prosecution already provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure. We are talking here about effective sanctions and common sense, both punitive and educational. The public prosecutor will thus be able to ask the offenders to restore the places where the objects are degraded, or to force them to make a citizen contribution to a victim support association. The diversion and simplification of the arrangements for the implementation of work of general interest will greatly contribute to reducing the time frame for the execution of this highly educational sentence, which only makes sense if it is carried out quickly. Let's be clear: it's not about confusing all delinquency. Organized crime, serious violence against people, of course, requires strong responses, of which prison is obviously a part; But the crime of everyday life, which rots the lives of the French, calls for constructive and, above all, rapid sanctions, which must not be worse than evil. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] This bill responds directly to this requirement, which is why, ladies and gentlemen, we can collectively be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u54	In the general debate, Mr Christophe Euzet spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u55	First of all, I would like to welcome the work of our colleague Dimitri Houbron and to join him in welcoming the adoption, for the first time, of a text by the Group of the European People's Party, to be adopted together in a rather specific context. In fact, on the political front first, the crisis of the covid-19 is extremely time-consuming and energy-consuming. This does not prevent the majority from taking action on all the problems facing the country, and in particular on the priorities it has set itself. Thus, after the fight against terrorism, after the protection of police and gendarmerie officers and those elected on the ground, the fight against the incivilities of everyday life was a third pillar, which required a strong text. On the budgetary front, Mr. Keeper of the Seals recalled, the budget for justice is increasing by 8 per cent, which will allow for the development of local justice. This will require an increase in the recruitment of judicial assistants or clerks, in order to speed up judgements concerning petty crime; It also requires a better organization of the work of the courts to enhance the relevance and effectiveness of the criminal response. Finally, the continuing feeling of insecurity has already been mentioned. In society as a whole, everyone fears being a potential victim, while the culprits have a sense of impunity. All of this has serious consequences for the way we look at our judicial system, a rather strict look at too heavy and too long proceedings, and at the courts that are engulfed in cases of very unequal importance. In this context, we can only praise this bill, which is certainly not a revolution but a concrete text, of practical application, which aims to combat the incivilities of everyday life by obeying a double requirement: on the one hand, to relieve the congestion of the courts, in particular by easing the procedures for dealing with small cases; On the other hand, rehabilitating work of general interest and facilitating reintegration to better combat recidivism, since statistics show that this work of general interest improves the rate of reintegration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u56	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u57	The logic is therefore clear: it would not have been useful to claim once again to increase the severity of the sentences if they were neither to be pronounced nor to be applied. On the contrary, it seems to us very relevant to let the judges mobilize on their essential mission – to judge – and to free them, for this, from the burden of the incivilities of everyday life. The text contains two essential measures: it facilitates the use of public service work by dispensing the JAP – the enforcement judge – from its implementation, to the benefit of the management of the Prison Service for Integration and Probation; It then expands the range of alternatives to prosecution – "you break, repair" –, avoids confrontation between the victim and the offender, finally proposes a citizen contribution of up to 3000 euros in reparation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] The Joint Joint Committee has substantially improved the text, which the Group of the European People's Party is satisfied with. He will therefore vote in his favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u58	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u59	Our two assemblies have done an effective collective work on this text, which has resulted in a joint and final joint committee. Restoring local justice to combat the incivilities and delinquency of everyday life is a necessity and an emergency for France, for as daily mistrust of a judicial power is growing, the violence of everyday life is intensifying, which is reflected in the attacks on mayors, including rural mayors, on a regular basis. In this context, the IDU and independent group is obviously in favour of the objectives of this bill. Our fellow citizens must be able to count on their justice on a daily basis, a justice that is faster and closer, down from the feeling too often shared of a distant justice. We believe, however, that, in order to achieve this objective fully, a much more ambitious text must be drawn up, which no longer falls within the scope of a DIY logic, in which the hard-working legislative system hardly conceals the deep gaps in our judicial and criminal system. Having said that, the text proposed by our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party contains some good practical measures. We adhere to the two main thrusts of the bill: to broaden the scope of measures that can be pronounced as alternatives to prosecution and to facilitate the use of work of general interest. Having kept the spirit of these provisions in mind, however, we recall the few reservations that we have already expressed, in particular the fact that diversion can only be conceived when it does not affect the rights of the accused. The Senate additions have been a useful addition to the text – I am thinking in particular of the possibility of making a transaction with the mayor, or of the fact that the divestment of the thing that was used to commit the offence or the proceeds of the offence may be carried out for the benefit of a not-for-profit corporation. Finally, educational measures are always welcome, such as the proposal for a parenting internship. I stress this because it is important to stress that there may be other answers than the simple punishment. To highlight this idea is one of the main assets of this bill. In this sense, speed should not always be the main argument for justice reforms. However, there are still outstanding issues. How to interpret the new citizen contribution introduced by Article 1? Is that a disguised fine? And how can we ensure that the device is relevant? What are the guarantees of the effectiveness of the proposed new measures? How can we ensure that these obligations are fulfilled and monitored, bearing in mind that prosecutors will never be able to carry out this additional task? Finally, it is necessary to simplify the procedures for carrying out works of general interest, but this must not lead to their complete diversion. As we mentioned at the first reading, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this text, which, although it does not contain any revolutionary measures, really goes in the right direction. Once the vote has been taken, the whole question will, as is often the case, lie in the practical application of the proposed measures. These measures will require enhanced monitoring and may represent an additional workload for all magistrates and judicial officers. What about, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, the 1100 recruits promised, the creation of the new medical and judicial units, the setting up of the fairground hearings or the new methods of action of the prosecutor's delegates? The achievement of the set objectives depends on the means used to achieve it, because having hands to make laws is one thing, showing the will to implement them is another. It seems, indeed, that the legislator often navigates on sight, according to the measures, without becoming fully aware of the reforms to be undertaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u60	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u61	This bill, supplemented by welcome additions from the Senate, will facilitate the use of more effective and fairer measures, both for the benefit of the perpetrators and the victims. Alternative measures to prosecution will be promoted, which will reduce the burden on our judicial system, which is overburdened. In addition, any offence should now be subject to real punishment, which is a good way to prevent recidivism. Indeed, for small offences, an educational or reparation measure is more effective, not only for the perpetrator but also for the victims. This helps to combat the sense of impunity that an offender may experience when cases are closed or lead to a simple reminder of the law, and we consider it particularly important that the first offence committed by a young person be punished to make it clear that each offence calls for an answer. In this regard, our group is satisfied with the possibility offered by the text to ask a person in question to make a donation to associations of victims in order to both help these associations and to make the perpetrator aware of the scope of his or her act. In the same vein, our group very much welcomes the introduction of an article allowing property confiscated from criminal gangs to be returned to citizens, including associations. This was a provision originally included in the proposed law to improve the cash flow of associations, a text which, unfortunately, is slow to come to fruition. Our colleague from Corsica, Jean-Félix Acquaviva, is among those who demand it to give greater visibility to the fight against gangs that gangrene the economy of certain territories: in Sicily, for example, the mafia villas have been transformed into cultural centres, which is a particularly strong symbol. Another aspect of this proposal concerns the simplification of the rules on the execution of works of general interest, the so-called TIGs, which should help to reduce their implementation time. TIGs will be carried out within a period closer to the act, which will psychologically facilitate the educational effect of the measure. In addition, it will be possible to involve mayors directly in their execution, which we find very useful. The mayors themselves are asking for it. As a valued figure of authority in the communes, they will be able, especially among young offenders, to make the perpetrators understand their actions, for example by having them repair the degraded material. The addition of the Senate of integrating unpaid work into experimentation to carry out work of general interest within the social and solidarity economy sector also goes in the right direction: working in a structure that works positively for society makes it truly possible to redress the harm that has been caused to society. However, we would like to alert you, as often, to the question of the means allocated to these positive measures, and to justice in general. Work of general interest currently accounts for only 7% of sentences handed down; The lack of availability of magistrates and prison integration and probation advisers to approach and monitor TIG sites could explain this situation. In addition, only 21,000 TIG posts were opened at the beginning of the pandemic and the health context reduced the use of this form of punishment, while the Government's target was 30,000 posts by 2022. In addition, as we discuss on Friday in the Chamber a bill aimed at providing detainees with an effective right of appeal to denounce conditions of detention that are unworthy of the human condition, it seems important to me to stress that the development of alternative sentences can be a means of combating the massive overcrowding in our country and the resulting inhumane conditions of detention. Prior to the release of prisoners as a result of the pandemic, the occupancy rate of remand homes was 138 per cent; It must be 122% today. This situation is the result of a criminal policy that puts a lot of people in prison without having the capacity to accommodate these people in dignified conditions. Alternative penalties could help to match the sentences handed down and the possibility of locking people in. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] While the bill does not represent a revolution in the sentencing system, it focuses on the smallest cases, which often do not involve incarceration, and contributes to the gradual transformation of our justice system through the introduction of more effective measures. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore vote in favour of this text, which is undoubtedly in the right direction. Congratulations to our rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u62	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u63	I had already made the remark to you last time: this text, which purports to improve the efficiency of the local justice system, mainly concerns – if not only – criminal matters; However, most of the judicial activity is a civil justice activity. Mr rapporteur, you have spoken, like Mr Custody of Seals, of "small disputes", an expression which refers more often to civil cases than to criminal cases. However, the text does not propose anything in this regard. Nothing has changed since the law of programming and reform for justice, and the deadlines are continuously increasing – I will come back to that in the second part of my speech. As far as the substance of the text is concerned, your proposals do not fundamentally change the current state of law. Alternative measures to prosecutions also extend the role of the prosecutor, or rather that of his delegates, since they are the ones who, in the spirit of the guard of seals, must apply local justice. Remember that the prosecutors' delegates are not magistrates as such, they are pensioners who come to contribute to the work of justice. In addition, you are facing a fundamental challenge: the text never discusses the role of the prosecution, the preliminary investigation, or alternatives to prosecution. I know that a text is being prepared on the subject and I hope that we will get a little more details than the teasing that takes place in the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u64	In the Sunday Journal, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u65	In any case, you give the prosecutor additional powers, as if it were self-evident, without reforming the status of the prosecutor and without any real debate on the means. However, I will hammer it as much as I need, the 2021 budget creates fewer judicial posts than the 2020 budget: despite an increase of 8 per cent, there are fewer new posts. It is therefore not true to say that 2021 would be a year of broads never equalled. The question always arises as to whether to – why not? – to open a second National School of the Judiciary; In any case, it is necessary to double the capacity of this school if we want to reach a sufficient number of magistrates for the population, i.e., in reality, to achieve a ratio of magistrates to inhabitants roughly similar to that of our European neighbours, especially Germans, often cited as an example in this field. The civilian side, I repeat, represents the vast majority of cases. However, as I speak to you, the average time for hearing is twenty-four months for the judicial authorities; In the case of family affairs, i.e. the bulk of the business, they are 18 months. The delays in justice that enquire the citizen do not concern local criminal justice, that is not true! The primary concern of our fellow citizens is civil justice. And what do we do about it? Where are the clerks we need? Where are they? We were promised hundreds of recruits during the covid period to clean up the piles of justice files,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u66	They took place!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u67	...but the batteries do not absorb and the delays are only growing, because you do not put the means in the right place. It is true that the priority, as everyone knows, is the construction of prison places. This is the first thing we need, the top priority! For everything else, there's nothing but crumbs. Yet, there would be things to do to reform civil justice – the reform of the Magendie decree, for example. For, while the accused is asked to send his file within three months maximum, the hearing period is then eighteen months, or twenty, or twenty-two! It's amazing. The accused is asked to hurry to ensure that the judicial machine is not on the rendezvous. It is once again a question of means. Whether it is on juvenile justice, criminal justice or civil justice, the majority systematically maintains the confusion in the House by saying: "Good justice is prompt justice. That is not true. Rapidity is not a corollary of good decisions. Justice should not be too slow, nor should it go beyond problematic deadlines for the accused and for the magistrate; But from there to say that rapid justice is justice, it is a step that I will never take, because it brings us into an accounting and management logic that has nothing to do with the idea of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u68	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u69	Restoring the bond of trust now more than distended between justice and French citizens is an ambition that we all share. This link has been repeatedly broken due to the weakening of the resources granted to the judicial system in recent years. This link has also dissipated at the rate of the abolition of local courts and the merger of courts of special jurisdiction into courts of special jurisdiction. This link has become blurred as the courts cluttered, the deadlines extended and the victims finally felt abandoned. Of course, in the 2021 finance bill, the appropriations for the Justice Mission are up 8%. We welcome this, but we do not forget that this is only a catch-up of the trajectory provided for in the 2019 programming law. This budget should only be a first step on the long road to catching up that justice needs and that community justice should be one of the priority beneficiaries. For to restore credibility to the justice of our country in the eyes of the victims, we must act on the problems that poison their daily lives. Of course, we welcome some of the provisions of the bill. I am thinking, for example, of the rehabilitation of the premises by the person or persons who have committed their degradation: we agree that this is a useful measure, because it constitutes a proportionate punishment with a pedagogical aim and contributes to the understanding of the consequences of a malicious act by its perpetrators. In addition, parental responsibility courses provided at the expense of the offender are in the right direction as they do not avoid the issue of parental responsibility. However, in dealing only with procedural matters, I fear that the proposed law will not respond to the structural problems of justice and that it will ultimately degrade the criminal response. Thus, the text makes the choice of speeding up proceedings by making greater use of alternative measures to prosecution. It is not, in our view, a solution to all the incivilities of everyday life, nor to the facts of petty delinquency. Recidivism in crime is unfortunately strong in our country; While the method of considering alternative measures to prosecution ensures a prompt criminal response, it is not always appropriate to prevent the recurrence of perpetrators, nor to take into account the views of victims and compensation for harm. Alternative measures to prosecution are not the subject of a trial and it is up to the prosecutor, in conjunction with the judicial police officer, to decide on the prosecution alone, even though prosecutors are already overwhelmed with work. We therefore question the means to be deployed to ensure that the sentences imposed are respected. Speed must not be at the expense of quality. To be understood, sanctions must be both proportionate for the culprit and restorative for the victim. The penalty is not only punitive, it is effective if it allows the offender to understand the seriousness of his or her actions and to engage in his or her reintegration into society. This requires follow-up – an essential part which is unfortunately not covered in the text. We also regret that there is no real question of strengthening the presence of local judicial institutions in the territories. We are concerned, for example, about the diversion of work of general interest that the bill will entail. Is it time-saving to entrust the implementation of the TIGs to the Director of the Prison Service for Integration and Probation – SPIP – who has already been overworked, and to include it in the procedure instead of the sentencing judge? That is unlikely, and this provision will, in our view, weaken the scope of the sentence. Re-opening the local courts, re-establishing registry posts that are so lacking, especially in Seine-Saint-Denis: this is what is expected. In my department, France's second jurisdiction, magistrates, clerks and lawyers have been alerting us for years about the lack of human and material resources. There has been progress, but there is an urgent need for sustained and stronger responses. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] It is for all these reasons – both the presence of positive elements and the existence of fears, questions and disagreements – that our group, as at first reading, will choose to abstain on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u70	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u71	A recent poll shows that the French place security first among their expectations for the upcoming regional elections. However, the regions have absolutely no competence in this area. That is to say the importance of this theme for our fellow citizens, which is based on a feeling of insecurity more or less connected to the reality of the facts in certain areas, but also, it must be recognized, on a daily, sometimes harmful, made of repeated incivilities that clearly disturb public tranquillity. Far from the false answers, far from the outrageous political instrumentalization of this theme by the right and its extreme, this text is part of the Government's determined struggle to restore a justice of proximity, which, in my view, is inappropriately described as "daily" justice, and to ensure that every act of disturbance to public order gives rise to an appropriate criminal response. Of course, it is not a question of filling prisons, but of multiplying the available responses and making them as fast as possible. These two conditions are imperative to ensure that the decision is understood by the offender and that the disorder that he or she caused begins to calm down. In his general policy statement of 15 July 2020, the Prime Minister recalled that at the heart of the Republican pact, "the speed and effectiveness of the public service of justice are the conditions for social peace and respect for the victims" – we must always recall, in the Chamber, the existence of the victims. This bill takes its full place in the reform of the juvenile criminal justice system, for which the effectiveness and speed of the response are imperatives, of course, of repression, but also of protection. Three levers of action help to translate this political will into concrete action. First of all, the resources allocated are up to the stakes – do you mind, Mr Bernalicis, it is not by systematically repeating your budget vision that you will make it a truth –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u72	Neither do you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u73	... with an unprecedented increase in the budget of justice, to €8.2 billion, and more specifically allocated to the theme that brings us together today, that of community justice. However, the texts do not do everything; There is also a need for political will, that of a determined criminal policy. In fact, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have widely demonstrated that you place this priority at the heart of your action, without of course ignoring the more serious forms of the spectre of delinquency. As proof, I would like to refer to the circular of 15 December 2020, which you cited, which lists the 350 offences of daily delinquency and provides for a strengthening of alternatives to prosecution. It is important to note the doubling of the number of prosecutors' delegates – who play a fundamental role – to 2000, as well as the mobilization of honorary magistrates and magistrates on a temporary basis, to increase the number of fairground hearings, as mentioned earlier. The proposal that unites us today vigorously complements this mechanism, by strengthening local judicial action; I thank, of course, my colleagues, the Group of the European People's Party and, in particular, Dimitri Houbron, rapporteur for this fine text, for supporting government policy. I also welcome the responsible and collective work carried out throughout the parliamentary debate, which has made it possible to move without too much difficulty towards an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee – we see that a relative consensus has emerged. Among the provisions of this text, I will refer in particular to those concerning alternatives to prosecution, which, far from constituting parallel justice, do not dislike Stéphane Peu, are truly integrated into the judicial process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u75	These mechanisms involve the perpetrator more, allow him to measure the consequences of his behaviour and take better account of victims, who are too often disillusioned. I am thinking in particular of the obligation to regularise, the obligation to rehabilitate and redress – including monetary damages – damages, the innovative measure of paying a citizen contribution to victim support associations, and finally to the TIGs. You know my involvement in this last device, identified as a powerful lever for preventing recidivism and reintegration, largely encouraged by the law of 23 March 2019 and by the creation of the Agency for Labour of General Interest and Occupational Inclusion. By entrusting the directors of the SPIPs with the determination of the procedures for the execution of the work and the empowerment of the reception facilities – and only that – this text removes the obstacles arising from the cumbersome nature of the procedure and allows it to speed up, as closely as possible to the local realities, the reception facilities and the convicted persons. These justice professionals will help to smooth the execution of TIGs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, as you will have understood, the Group of the Republic on the move is pleased to see this work completed and fully supports the drafting adopted by the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u76	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u77	We come to the end of the legislative path of this bill, which I said a few months ago in this gallery, that it brought a first brick to the wall that we would have to raise, but that it would not upset the orderlyness or the power of the judicial authority. I said that we would vote in favour of this text, which we did. I confirm that the Republican Group will also vote in favour of the version resulting from the Joint Committee's work. The text, which aims to improve the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response, is, in my view, a first step on the fundamental question of trust in the judicial institution. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you're working on it and we're waiting for your copy. It goes without saying, for us, that in 2021, the path to be followed is that of respect for the institution and the judicial authority, capable of ensuring the social cohesion of the country and protecting the Republic, which is sometimes attacked. Your text makes a modest contribution to this, but it does not offend you, Mr. rapporteur, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. The ball is now in your camp; Given the current situation, we expect a lot from the text that you will propose to us. For us, defending the judicial institution is essential. It regulates the social body, soothes disputes and allows "living together". If the judicial authority is weak or failing and lends itself to suspicions or questions, all our institutions are mistreated. We will thus plead tirelessly for the defence of the judicial institution, we will work tirelessly to support its authority, to track down its weaknesses and flaws, and we will fight for the means to meet the challenges. The question remains open: beyond the budgetary effort made this year, since the means are the nerve of war, how much are we ready to invest? We are far from the sums committed by our European neighbours. There is still a way, even if you have set yourself on track – of which act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u78	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u79	It is important to note the beginning of a journey, even if we are far from Santiago de Compostela, in this case the necessary budgetary vigour. This text provides a judicial response in the criminal chain. We want zero impunity: justice must show, both to the victim and to the perpetrator, that the Republic does not accept any act of delinquency, even minor, "of the daily" to take up your expression, Mr. Even if these offences appear ancillary, a clear, direct and firm response is required. This text contributes to this. Section 1 allows the prosecutor to provide a more direct response – it may require the offender to "remediate the site or degraded things" or to pay a financial contribution. These measures, which could lead to the social upgrading of offenders, are moving in the right direction. Article 2 concerns work of general interest, which is the best solution for certain facts and offenders, provided that the necessary means are available. It is known that staff were missing, that wait times were long. This text is intended to remedy this; We'll see if he gets there. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As I said, this bill does not upset the country's judicial organization or criminal policy; Its impact will be limited. However, we support its content and spirit, although with some reservations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u80	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u81	Too often, the victims feel that the acts of crime remain unpunished and the offenders, a feeling of impunity that undermines our social contract, as you said, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. This text, which we owe to our colleague Dimitri Houbron, which deals with community justice and criminal response, brings an additional stone to the building aimed at strengthening the judicial institution and meeting the expectations of our fellow citizens, more than exasperated by alerting us, for far too long, to the consequences of the incivilities and delinquency of everyday life – it is not a petty crime! – to live together to which we are all so attached. I also welcome the work of the rapporteurs, both in the Senate and in the National Assembly. I am not the only one who congratulates me that a trans-party work has brought us together; It's exceptional enough to be rated. The subject deserves it very much. In the face of crime, justice must be done; With this text, we are aiming for a faster, more systematic, more effective and more pragmatic judicial response. I will not enter, Mr Bernalicis, into the semantic debate on the speed of justice. Even if it is probably not a revolutionary text, it has been said, I am convinced that the application of these fine measures, which are perfectly adapted, will have immediately visible consequences. Without going into details, the desire for proximity is manifested in the place given to mayors in the reparation procedures. As I already said at first reading, it is essential that in small municipalities mayors play a role in local justice. Those who know their fellow citizens will be able to find an adequate response or participate in the implementation of appropriate measures. Your desire for efficiency and pragmatism will allow us to better address the consequences of incivilities, through new alternatives to prosecution, such as the possibility given to the prosecutor of the Republic to provide an agile and rapid response to the acts committed, before considering heavier measures, in the framework of a criminal composition, in particular, or work of general interest – these measures have already been mentioned, I do not return to it. I am pleased to note that an amendment that I defended here was reworked and adopted in the Senate, in co-construction with the seal keeper. Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for reminding us of this. This amendment permits the divestiture of "the thing that served or was intended to commit the offence or that was the product thereof", "to the benefit of a non-profit legal person", if the perpetrator owns the thing in question. This text is a link, but a strong link, to a comprehensive reform of the justice system, carried out through texts already discussed or shortly to be examined, and measures already implemented under your responsibility, Minister, or to come. We must indeed restore confidence in our citizens in our justice; This text is certainly one of the means of doing so. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Montesquieu had already highlighted the danger of the absence of prosecution: "Let us examine the cause of all the relaxations, we will see that it comes from the impunity of the crimes and not from the moderation of the sentences. This text goes in the right direction: by systematizing and adapting the criminal response, in a balanced way, it will bring justice closer to our citizens. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u82	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u83	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u84	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u85	The next item is the debate on the bill by Céline Calvez and several of her colleagues to democratize sport in France (No. 3808, 3980).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u86	Mrs Céline Calvez, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, spoke on Title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u87	Just a year ago, we were confined. Those who had regular sporting activity were hindered in their practice, when others discovered that sport, as a reason for derogation, could provide them with an instant of freedom by allowing them to leave their homes; Some have tasted it. With the sedentary nature of the health crisis, we have all asked ourselves questions about our relationship to sport. Beyond the crisis, sedentaryness unfortunately occupies more and more place in our lives, especially in the lives of younger people. Recent parliamentary proceedings, as well as the debates in committee last week, have reminded us again. The threat of sedentaryness weighs on our well-being and health. We must therefore, both individually and collectively, regain the taste for movement and overtaking. How? By giving everyone the opportunity to engage in physical and sporting activity in a frequent manner and in their living environment. To democratize sport in France is to go even further in the possibility for everyone to practice it. Of course, we must ensure the existence and availability of premises and facilities that meet the needs of individuals, clubs or associations. The nature and variety of the proposed activities are equally important. In reality, it is a matter of building an offer of quality physical and sporting activities, based on the diversity of facilities and resources, valuing the experience and know-how of all – and there are many – who animate the sport life of our country. To do this, we need to open up new fields of practice and stimulate synergies, overcoming the rigidity of certain organizations and the weight of certain habits. It is in this spirit that Title I of the bill to democratize sport in France develops the practice of the greatest number. The examination of the text in committee has already allowed us to expand the initial arrangements. Article 1, which guarantees access to physical and sporting activities for the public of medical and social establishments, has been supplemented in committee: the duty to provide information on these activities has been strengthened; We refer to multi-annual contracts of objectives and means, which bind the State, the authorities and the institutions. In short, we lay the foundation for a more inclusive society through sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u88	It's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u89	Article 2 encourages the use of sports facilities in schools, in particular by making the creation of independent access compulsory for any new school. We all experienced unused land and equipment on weekends or during school holidays, when on the other side of the fence, associations or even young people spent their time in perhaps less suitable places. The proposed legislation does not ignore the requirements relating to the safety of school audiences and the preservation of the heritage of public authorities. But this heritage must also be brought to life. For the full use of existing facilities, we strengthen the creation of independent access when a school is renovated, as well as the identification of sports facilities, including school facilities. Article 3 opens up the possibility for municipalities and intercommunalities to draw up local sports plans. The idea is to involve all stakeholders in establishing a comprehensive sporting path throughout the life of the citizens who frequent these territories. This local level will feed into the territorial diagnostics of the regional sports conferences, which are currently in the process of being established. Article 4 completes the scope of the topics to be addressed by these conferences, adding basic sports knowledge or health sport to the content. In committee, we clarified the objective of combating discrimination and added the theme of social and professional integration through sport. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Although we are part of different parliamentary teams, the committee has shown this, we like to find ourselves on the same ground: that of individual development and collective progress. Together, today, let us define the rules of the game!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u90	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, spoke on Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u91	If I were to retain a definition of democracy, I would focus on the one inspired by Schumpeter's work: democracy is the art of giving the governed the ability to choose their rulers. This definition invites us to know who really governs; make a choice, which is not always the case; Finally, to give the ability to choose. It means that each system claiming to be democratic must make every effort to give the reading keys to understand how it works, but also to share all the information with the governed, so that they can forge an informed choice. Our work – some of which may bear witness – has shown that this ideal is not necessarily shared by all. Some have visibly dropped out of civic education or even all-round education; We must fight here to never lower the guard in defence of this precious and rare good, which allows us to affirm the values that make France France. That is the whole meaning of this text and of the proposals made in Title II. We will now demand that each steering committee respect the strict equality between women and men, because it is necessary that each decision-making body resembles a miniature France and that it becomes accustomed to the fact that competences do not have sex or, all other things equal, age, colour, culture or sexual preference. It would even be interesting to invite each federation to have joint co-chairs, for example. Because decisions must take into account those affected by their impact, all clubs will vote in future elections of their president and president of federation. The presidents will also be limited to three terms, which will allow the necessary mixing of new ideas and new faces. Finally, in order for sport to embody the values it advocates, conditions of good repute will be extended to the elected officials of the governing bodies with regard to declarations of heritage and interests, and to the voluntary and paid mentors with regard to the checks of conviction. This bill, which is intended to be effective, is the result of a long work enriched with diverse and varied experiences from colleagues and civil society actors. I would like to thank the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, for clearly identifying these subjects as campaign commitments; Government members for their trust; Group presidents Christophe Castaner, Patrick Mignola and Olivier Becht for their support; the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Bruno Studer, and colleagues Marie-George Buffet, Aude Amadou, François Cormier-Bouligeon, Bertrand Sorre, Régis Juanico, Michel Larive and Maxime Minot for the quality of their work, past or in progress. I will add a wink to my fellow rapporteurs Céline Calvez and Cédric Roussel, to Grégory Labille, rapporteur for implementation, and to Belkhir Belhaddad, who supports the text for the La République group on the move. Of course, I would like to thank the entire sports movement, and in particular the presidents and presidents of federations, who actively fed our reflections on these issues by presenting us with their very modern vision of what they wanted to achieve. Finally, I want to mention those who bring Pierre de Coubertin's spirit to life in clubs. I would like to affirm my utmost respect for the representatives of clubs, volunteers, families, parents, who do the daily sports in France and who participate in the development of youth. Because the law does not do everything, it is for these volunteers that we must work first. Minister, Minister Delegate, I would like to make proposals and hear your opinion. What is to be expected to develop and make available to all clubs a single digital window, to allow them with one click to access all information intuitively, to simplify all administrative procedures, to share projects, to facilitate access to all possible grants? Develop GAFAs – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – instead of imposing Cerfas! I also propose that state officials seek European grants in order to make them easily accessible. I am referring here to an additional budget of EUR 100 million per year for associations. In this regard, why not deploy, like the position of national technical director, directors of economic and financial development at the heart of federations? This would allow us to look for new alliances, as advocated by the sustainable development goals, and to work on new cooperation, with e-sport for example – a subject dear to Denis Masséglia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u92	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u93	Why not speed up the creation and provision of the sports health ticket, defended by Maud Petit, which would allow companies to participate fully in the development of their employees? Why not offer high-level athletes a status as civil servants for the time of their careers, to facilitate their daily lives and prepare for their conversion? Remember that they sacrifice part of their lives to make the Marseillaise resonate in the largest international competitions. Why not speed up sports employment schemes in rural areas and priority areas of the city? Finally, because sport is also a formidable diplomatic tool, it would be interesting to think about the reconversion of the presidents and presidents of federations in view of their international impact. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] All these "why" have only one ambition: to have a strong answer on a federating subject, sport – the only one, with culture, to be able to put passion back at the heart of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u94	That was a very nice thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u95	Mr Cédric Roussel, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, spoke on Title III.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u96	One Frenchman in two practises a sport. This sector represents 450,000 jobs, with an annual turnover of 80 billion euros. I am pleased to belong to a majority that recognizes the importance of sport and I thank all Members, including the members of the Study Group on the Economy of Sport, for their work of reflection. The sport policy we defend is balanced. This balance between competitiveness and solidarity is not only reaffirmed by this text, but also consolidated by several measures; For us, one doesn't go without the other. French sport has been hit hard by the health crisis, which has put in jeopardy a whole economic model, from the neighbourhood club to the industrial sector. To this difficult crisis was added the resounding Mediapro affair, which hit the financing of professional sport, but also amateur – through the indispensable Buffet tax. How, three years from the Olympic Games, has a foreign predator managed to weaken our sport model? The question remains and it will have to be addressed one day. At the request of the President of the Republic, the Government has undertaken a large number of measures to support the sports sector, amounting to €400 million. In order to enable French sport to continue to serve its values in a context of crisis, we must consolidate its economic model. This is the ambition of Title III of this bill. Article 9 establishes in the law the national platform for combating the manipulation of sports competitions, which is intended to bring together the various organisations involved in this international fight. I am pleased that this recommendation of the information report that I co-authored with our colleague Régis Juanico on the law of 1 March 2017 aimed at preserving the ethics of sport, strengthening the regulation and transparency of professional sport and improving the competitiveness of clubs, known as the Braillard law, is now being translated into legislation. Article 10 concerns illegal streaming, which also threatens the economic model of sport. According to a recent study by the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet – HADOPI – 100 million euros would be saved each year from the financing of professional and amateur sports. This article remedyes this by creating a new legal procedure, known as dynamic, allowing the blocking, removal or de-listing of sites that illegally retransmit a sports competition, broadcast live. Unpublished, the judge's original order may serve as a basis for blocking sites not identified in the judgment. Thanks to a balanced text and the additions made in committee, the mechanism now presents all the guarantees of proportionality. I would point out that the procedure will apply only to sites transmitting competitions specifically referred to in the order and only for the duration of the sporting event. In this case, the characterization of pirated content will be simple and call-free; It will be all the more so since HADOPI will act as a trusted third party between the holders of the audiovisual exploitation right and the defenders responsible for verifying the merits of the applications. I am therefore convinced of the robustness of the scheme. A new Article 10a, introduced in committee, draws attention to the fragmentation of sporting events between pay-TV channels and to the increasingly restricted dissemination of sport in plain language. I have received numerous inquiries on this subject, particularly in my constituency in Nice, and we will not be able to avoid this debate if we are to fight piracy effectively and promote better access to sport. More broadly, as many uses are constantly developing, we must be careful to adapt the offer to the demand for sports broadcasting: whether they are Netflix, Spotify, Deezer platforms or pricing to the event viewed, there is an urgent need to think of a new model in the interest of professional and amateur sport, as well as viewers. Article 11 adds the cooperative society of collective interest, the SCIC, to the types of sports companies expressly authorized by law. It thus encourages the transition from voluntary professional clubs to the social and solidarity economy. This is an essential democratic measure for clubs that wish to expand their governance. Finally, a new article concerns the expenses of sports sponsorship of companies, which will be the subject of a Government report. Acting on this lever, particularly with TPEs and SMEs, would help local clubs to break out of the crisis by giving them Olympic tax support, if I may say, three years from the organisation of the Paris Games. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] The bill aims to respond to concrete challenges and strengthen our national sport model, based on solidarity between amateur and professional sport. It will also, I hope, trigger a new cycle for the economy and the development of the sports sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u97	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u98	We are very pleased, together with Roxana Maracinanu, Minister of Sport, to be here with you to consider this bill that aims to put sport at the heart of French life, especially young people, on a sustainable basis. In our view, the meeting of our two ministries last July was an essential event, allowing us to promote a comprehensive vision of the time of children and adolescents, a vision already defended by Jean Zay in the 1930s and by all those who promote a comprehensive approach to education. This vision is now intended to be translated into reality, thanks to the first initiatives undertaken to develop sport at school, but also and above all to create a link between the school world and the outside and out-of-school world. In this particular period, we see more than ever how much it is necessary to encourage the physical activity of children. As we all know, sedentaryness is a major threat, all over the world – that was said very well earlier; As a result, children's obesity and development are lower than it would be if all children and adolescents were involved in sport. Our ideal of freedom, equality and fraternity can be realized through the values of sport because, as I have often had the opportunity to say, these are converging with the values of the Republic. The present bill is, for Roxana Maracinanu and myself, a republican text, in the broad line of the republican construction of school and education, and of the other values of the Republic. This will result in several provisions. In the current period, so special – I insist – we need more than ever an educational alliance between society and its school. This alliance, France spontaneously defends it: if it keeps schools, colleges and high schools open at the moment, despite the difficulties, it is because affection for the school is part of the DNA of French society, the best of its republican tradition. There is a desire for a specifically French school, because the school represents the spine of the Republic. The school must transmit not only knowledge and values, but also the taste for physical activity. "A healthy mind in a healthy body", the classic adage is worth more than ever in this period of crisis that reminds us of the alliance between the French nation and its school; and sport is part of this approach. This alliance can be established not only in time – we need to renew, regenerate sports practice – but also in space, that is, in the territories in which children and adolescents operate. In concrete terms, this means that we need to strengthen the links between school and sports clubs, as well as all the community actors, so that children can flourish more, regardless of the social milieu or the territory from which they originate. There is an explicit but also implicit dimension: much of the articles in the bill can be read as having a bearing on this educational alliance. With Roxana Maracinanu, we often went to the field to meet sports clubs that, beyond their primary function, also play a socio-educational role, like this club of taekwondo of Montpellier that offers homework at home,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u100	... student support, learning holidays, activities, and which, in doing so, plays a key role in the social life of the neighbourhood. We can completely regenerate the issues of popular education, and more generally those of extracurricular education, by involving more sports players in this educational alliance that will include many stakeholders. This bill, which I welcome both initiative and inspiration, coincides with priorities that I believe we share on these benches. The educational usefulness of sports associations and clubs is no longer to be demonstrated. We therefore call for the creation of educational alliances between sport and school, in complementarity with the action of local and regional authorities, and certain provisions or amendments will help to consolidate this issue, I am sure. On the other hand, our efforts must not only focus on youth, although I naturally began by insisting on this point. It is well known how necessary regular sports practice is to flourish, to stay fit, to prevent diseases; Again, it's more current than ever. It is therefore up to us to extend access to sports practice to all. I am thinking in particular of people with disabilities, the elderly or the sick. We must also help the sport movement to strengthen its territorial anchor, to include it as a key player in communities, at the heart of the wealth of territories and their history. For this, you referred to it earlier in this forum, it is also a matter of opening up the school system further: the arrangements for better sharing sports facilities are in line with the values of the Republic. We want to build bridges, rather than walls, between different worlds. In line with the creation of the National Agency for Sport, this territorialisation of sport, established by the reform of the territorial organisation of the State, now places the policies of youth and sports under the authority of the rectors. This national and local harmonization, which complements other reforms that we have carried out – I am thinking in particular of the merging of our general inspections – aims to strengthen the sports movement's links with communities and economic circles, to the benefit of greater visibility. The meaning of the text that brings us together today to democratize sport in France is thus based on the autonomy and responsibility of the actors. It is a balanced text, organized in three titles, allowing to approach the practice of sport for as many as possible, but also the governance of federations and the sport economic model. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and Members who have been able to carry out important consultation work in the search for consensus. Before concluding, I have a particular thought for Marie-George Buffet – I have already had the opportunity to say in this Chamber the respect I had for her work as Minister of Sports, and more generally for the parliamentarian she is. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] This bill will, I am sure, mark an important step in the evolution of the French sports model, which has been under way for two years and which the President of the Republic has wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u101	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u102	I am honoured and moved to introduce myself to you, because the text we are looking at is the result of more than two years of work carried out by my department's teams, in close collaboration with the NOCSF – the French National Olympic and Sports Committee –, the CPSF – the French Paralympic and Sports Committee – and the sports movement. Together with Jean-Michel Blanquer, we continued this work started by Laura Flessel, whom I greet, together with the parliamentarians of the La République en marche who decided to take it up. This is a real teamwork – as a sport law deserves – led with the parliamentary majority that I would like to thank; and I hope that you will all be part of this team at the end of our work. The will of the President of the Republic is clear: to make France a more sporting nation, to promote the development of sport in all fields of society, but also to accompany its transformation in order to adapt it to the aspirations of our time. The unprecedented health crisis that we are going through and that is shaking the world of sport makes the content of the bill even more relevant and necessary. In this difficult context, sport needs to be protected, strengthened and reinvented more than ever. It is the purpose of this text that opens up new horizons and perspectives for the world of sport, while preparing it for the great challenges facing it. Jean-Michel Blanquer expressed it with strength and conviction: sport is a pillar of the education of our children. To affirm its educational role and strengthen its place in school, I wanted my ministry to be closer to that of national education; It is, in my view, the most beautiful legacy that Paris 2024 can leave to young people. My obsession is to allow all our fellow citizens to have access to sport from an early age and to have the chance to experience it. Article 1 of the UNESCO International Charter on Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport states that "The practice of physical education, physical activity and sport is a fundamental right for all". I personally discovered sport in the school environment in Romania, but it was thanks to the world of associations that I found my place in France. My club was a second home, a place of openness to others, a real school of life. To give substance to the educational alliance that Jean-Michel Blanquer evoked: it is a central issue for me. The aim is to recognise the fundamental role of the educator, the club and the association, for the benefit of young people. The bill strengthens access to sport for as many people as possible, whether at school or for the benefit of people with disabilities; It intervenes as close as possible to the territories, whose clubs are major socio-economic actors – they must be considered. To give sports players new perspectives, to open up unexplored fields of intervention, to link them with new audiences: all this can only be done with guarantees. As you know, over the past two years, we have undergone a major reform of the French sports model. This transformation is based on a new relationship between the State and sports federations: the supervision exercised by the Ministry has replaced itself with greater autonomy, with strengthened means and responsibilities, with the State acting as a support and control – a control that I want more qualitative. In this renewed landscape, sports federations are more recognized for their social and educational role. Their new prerogatives involve changes necessary to be in line with our time and with the aspirations of practitioners. This is the whole purpose of Title II, which thoroughly renews federal governance: it provides for parity within the governing bodies of the federations and their regional leagues, gives clubs a more central place in the voting mode of the election of the leaders, limits the number of mandates of the presidents – and, tomorrow, of the presidents – and, finally, broadens the control of the good repute of the actors of the sport. We have done everything, with Jean-Michel Blanquer, to ensure that professional sport and high-performance sport continue their activity and are recognized as real trades, for the greatest happiness of the supporters that we are all. However, in order to have a robust and better-armed sports movement against the drifts that weaken its economic model, we also need to strengthen it structurally. To achieve this, one of the levers is to wage a merciless fight against the manipulation of sports competitions. The platform responsible for ensuring the integrity of these competitions will thus be enshrined in the law. Another lever is to empower sport actors to better protect their content, and to prevent illegal retransmissions that undermine their sources of funding. Finally, we must give them access to new legal forms, especially from the social and solidarity economy. This text is therefore useful, concrete and innovative. I find him ambitious, and even courageous, on the part of the sports movement, which shows its will to reform itself; It is also courageous on the part of the Members, who have been bold, and on the part of the Ministers, who have had to carry out a concerted, highly interdepartmental work. The connoisseurs of the sports world will recognize that this bill includes major and relevant advances. My journey taught me to be pragmatic and to seize all opportunities with humility and determination. Thus certain provisions, essential for sport and its development – such as the delegation contract, a new relationship between the State and the delegated and accredited federations – have been proposed in other pieces of legislation. This bill is a continuous one, and I would like to welcome the various advances that have been defended by many of you – starting with you, the rapporteurs. I also have a special thought for Marie-George Buffet, who was my minister when I was an athlete, and who tabled, on June 4, a motion for a resolution stating that sport is one of the essential needs of the individual. The crisis that we are going through is a powerful reminder of how much sport is essential, and how useful it is to live well, in good health. So let's redouble our efforts to weave the network of sport-health homes – another commitment of the President – across the territory. True to a return to sports practice, this device is an undeniable success. The debate will allow us to go even further on this topic that has become central to our society, which we place at the heart of our concerns, with Olivier Véran and many parliamentarians. Our goal is to direct the public to the sports associations in their territory, which must turn more widely to healthy sport. To the associations, concerned at times of crisis, I would like to say, before the national representation, that the State will continue to support them. In addition to the economic schemes already deployed, we are working on the pass'sport, a massive stimulus to facilitate the acquisition of a sports license next year: 1.8 million young people will benefit from it. In addition, we will spend EUR 40 million on sports employment: this will support sports associations, particularly in the city's priority areas, so that they can be structured and developed. To professional clubs and the merchant sector, I also say that the state will continue to support it. Finally, I would like to commend the quality of the work and the constructive exchanges we have had with the rapporteurs, Céline Calvez, Pierre-Alain Raphan and Cédric Roussel, as well as with Belkhir Belhaddad. I also warmly thank the Sports Directorate, the Directorate-General for School Education – DGESCO – and all the agents of our major ministry, whom I know are committed to the deployment of public policies, the protection and education of practitioners, as well as the success of athletes. To the athletes – whom we want to support better in terms of performance, academic and academic follow-up, but also in terms of retraining – I would like to say that we want to give them an increased role in the functioning of the bodies. This is one of the important issues that can be discussed in the Chamber. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] I have no doubt that you all want to enrich this text, which naturally lends itself to it, as sport is a cross-cutting subject. Before I begin its review, I seek your support and your sense of responsibility to ensure that the bill ends. I solemnly pledge to you to continue the work on the provisions that we agree to consider relevant. We need this law. As France prepares to host the first fully equal Olympic and Paralympic Games, we have a responsibility to engrave in the marble provisions at the height of the event – of which equality between men and women is, in my view, a cornerstone. I am fully grateful to you for putting sport at the heart of the debates of this prestigious assembly for two or three days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u103	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u104	I would like to remove any ambiguity about the purpose of this motion of rejection: it is first of all a plea, which I address to all Members of Parliament present in the Chamber and to the Government, to substantially enrich the bill aimed at democratizing sport in France. It is no more than a call to take all the necessary measures to save French sport; There will be no other opportunities during this legislature: this is the time or never! The call I make to you is an invitation to improve the text, in order to bring us up to the stakes – if, however, this proves possible in a public session. I would point out that one third of the amendments tabled in committee have fallen under Article 40 of the Constitution, for financial inadmissibility, as well as under Article 45, for lack of direct relation to the provisions of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u105	Yes! It's becoming a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u106	The same applies to the sitting: 276 amendments will be under discussion, while 170 amendments have been declared inadmissible, of which 45 on the grounds that they would be legislative riders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u107	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u108	They dealt with physical and sports education, the status of sportsmen and women, financial support for sportsmen and women. Their inadmissibility highlights the modest and limited scope of the bill, while the expectations of the French are immense. I also want to say a word about the review schedule and regret that a text aimed at democratizing sport arrives so late in the legislature, like a catch-up session. The inextricable examination of the text in our legislative calendar, at the initiative of the majority On the move, has consequences: the useful provisions of Title II concerning the governance of sports federations, which we all support, will have effect only in four years' time. Legislative measures strengthening parity, non-cumulation of mandates and the more democratic election of governing sports bodies will only apply in 2024 – except for winter sports, potentially affected in 2022. Had these provisions been voted on last year, they would have entered into force for the Paris Olympic Games. It will also be necessary to ensure that the bill is properly placed on the Orders of the Day of the Senate – as you have said, Madam Minister – and that it is voted on by next year. Given that it will be the subject of a very serious examination in the Assembly until Friday, one can wonder how important it is to the Government. As the rapporteur for Title I, Céline Calvez, said in committee, this text has the merit of existing. Of course, it includes long-awaited progress, such as the extension of the guarantee of the good repute of sports leaders, the legislative recognition of the platform to combat the manipulation of sports competitions, the fight against illegal streaming or the possibility for sports companies to take the form of a cooperative society of collective interest. These are some of the progress we will be supporting, and they are contained in the report on the evaluation of the Braillard law of 1 March 2017, which we presented in July 2020 with the rapporteur Cédric Roussel. However, we hoped better. We expected, following the formal commitment of all successive sports ministers since 2017, a "sport and society" bill, a second Olympic law, after that concerning the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris of 2024, voted in 2018. This large law would have dealt with public policies relating to health sport, sport at school, sport in a professional setting, or sport as a factor for the inclusion of persons with disabilities and the farthest from sport. Such a law, had it been passed last year, would have produced concrete effects, laying the foundations for a sporting, territorial and societal heritage, everywhere in France, even before the Paris Olympic Games of 2024. If substantial improvements are not made, this bill will remain a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u109	An empty shell! Just technical adjustments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u110	While its title and explanatory memorandum indicate that it aims to democratize sport in France, its twelve articles – which became twenty-three after the examination in committee – are far from devoid of good intentions, seem in sharp contrast to the strong expectations of the actors on the ground. After a year of shutting down their activities due to the health crisis – synonymous with a decline in licensees, financial losses and uncertainty as to the sustainability of volunteer engagement – sports actors are waiting for measures to boost amateur sport on a daily basis. I am thinking in particular of indoor and indoor sports, which are particularly penalized, and women's sport, which is in great difficulty. French sport is in danger; the stakes are the pure and simple survival of thousands of sports associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u112	As demonstrated by a survey by the NOCSF last fall, 74% of clubs reported, on average, a loss of 26% of their licensees due to the epidemic. However, local authorities have been at the meeting: 90% of them have made the choice to maintain or increase their financial support to sports associations. Containment, successive curfews – which are certainly essential to combat the epidemic – and closures of sports equipment, such as swimming pools, are all factors that promote, beyond rising social tensions, physical inactivity and sedentaryness with dramatic health consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u113	Very damaging consequences!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u114	The health crisis has shown how vital sport is: it is an asset in the face of the pandemic, to preserve the mental and physical health of our fellow citizens. During the first confinement, four out of ten French continued to engage in physical and sporting activity; and 20% of them discovered a new activity at home or through the exemption allowing one hour of outdoor physical activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u115	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u116	Physical and sports activity is a valuable ally in the fight against covid-19, a breath of oxygen, a powerful antidepressant that helps fight stress, anxiety and sleep disorders. Adapted physical activity is the best medication to prevent covid -19 risk factors such as obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease, but also to treat and cure, as part of rehabilitation and rehabilitation care, the many patients who suffer from the sequelae of long covid. Doctors and paediatricians alerted us, during the hearings of the committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the crisis of the covid-19 on children and young people – whose rapporteur was our colleague Marie-George Buffet – on the adverse consequences of sedentary behaviour on the health of younger generations. As physical activity decreased and screen time increased, children took an average of five kilos.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u117	Not just the kids!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u118	The EC2 tests conducted in 2020 show a 20% loss of physical capacity after the first containment associated with a 40% loss of cognitive capacity, which affects school outcomes. Dr. François Carré, a cardiologist, speaks of a health-related time bomb.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u119	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u120	It evokes a loss of life expectancy in good health for children, adolescents, and of course students in great psychological but also physical fragility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u121	You always prevent the sports practice of the youngest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u122	So why, Minister of Sports, who are also the Minister of National Education, did you not take advantage of the students' presence in school, college and high school during the second confinement to generalize to all schools the operation "30 minutes of daily physical activity", in addition to the physical and sports education – EPS – mandatory? Why did the Minister of Higher Education not initiate open-air physical and sporting activity sessions for students who were suffering from isolation and aspired to social ties in a face-to-face manner? Here are two missed opportunities! Instead, since mid-January, physical and sporting activities in schools and out-of-school schools are not allowed in-house. The proposal for a law of the parliamentary majority currently being discussed in the Assembly could have been an opportunity to give back its letters of nobility to the EPS at school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u123	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u124	Instead, fewer positions are offered in the EPS faculty competitions, and the number of hours of EPS training in schools preparing for faculty trades continues to decrease. What will be remembered from this period of health crisis? That sport is not an essential activity, a priority, that the world of sport feels neglected, deconsidered. Soon after three years of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024, there is an urgent need to save French sport. [["Yes! » and applause on several benches of the LR group]] After a year at the stop, the sports and leisure halls are exsangued, despite the financial aid. Several hundred of them have closed their doors and half are considering a safeguard or liquidation procedure in the coming months. Despite the general legal aid, partial unemployment, the compensation fund for the loss of ticketing and the plans guaranteed by the State, the economic and financial balance of many professional clubs is also at stake, especially in disciplines such as handball, volleyball or basketball. I would add that 90% of sports associations are not employing women, which means that they are not eligible for the Government Solidarity Fund. Amateur sport at a standstill, beyond the public health issue, is a loss of social life and collective well-being. The health crisis has demonstrated the need for a strong State in the field of sport. The officers of the Ministry of Sports and the 1,600 technical and sports advisers have shown, as close as possible to the field, an adaptability that honours the public service. We must put an end to the uncertainty that has existed for almost three years about the future of their status as State agents. We see the need for a strong public service in sport, while officials of the deconcentrated services of the State are becoming less and less numerous and their specificity diluted in large regional directorates of national education centered on youth missions such as the universal national service, but not on the accompaniment of clubs, volunteers and educators in the territories. While assisted jobs have decreased by 80 per cent in three years, the extent to which they were essential to associative life is measured. Today, they are sorely missing. This will have to be done in one form or another, with new permanent support for sports employment. The funding of qualified sports jobs in clubs must be supported to help them structure and structure an offer of adapted physical activities in healthy sport and wellness sport, including for chronic patients most vulnerable to coronavirus, and to combat sedentary behaviour. This structuring of the non-competitive leisure offer failed at the end of the first confinement to retain the neo-pratics. A strong ministry is also additional financial resources, in particular to save the clubs in difficulty, to better support them and to support them in the development of these new activities. The Government would have had to do so three times in order to draw up its recovery plan for the sports world. This recovery plan, dedicated to sport, has finally benefited from 250 million euros of exceptional credits over two years, 450 million if one counts professional sport, out of a total of 100 billion. However, this recovery plan does not fit the nature of this crisis. The financial and societal consequences of the pandemic will be sustainable for all French sports. The goal is no longer to have 3 million more practitioners at the end of the quinquennium, as announced in 2017 by the President of the Republic: we must now work to regain our pre-crisis level. This plan therefore lacks its target for lack of sufficient resources. As proof, there is no tax support for sponsorship and sports sponsorship, while artisans, traders, bars and restaurants, hard hit by the crisis, account for 50% of local partnerships for amateur clubs. We have repeatedly called, without success, for a temporary increase of 60% to 80% of the tax reduction limit on donations to sports associations to encourage this sponsorship. A portion of the cost of memberships and licences should also be converted into tax credit donations to reduce the hemorrhage of membership. In addition, raising the ceiling of the taxes allocated to the financing of the National Sports Agency – gambling, sports betting – seems essential to us to increase the amount of the solidarity fund for clubs by only EUR 15 million at national level by 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u126	Pass'sport is a good idea – we proposed it in 2019 with my colleague Senator Jean-Jacques Lozach – but the proposed device is clearly undersized. The aim is to put it in place as quickly as possible to effectively accompany the resumption of club activities as early as June 2021, without waiting for the start of the season.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u128	An envelope of only EUR 100 million has been made available to finance this € 50 coupon, valid for a licence, which will apply to young people aged 6 to 16 years under the condition of resources, i.e. 1.8 million young people. The scheme ignores the entire high school population and the students, who are nevertheless in a situation of great financial insecurity and physical and mental distress. With these four measures, we would raise the financial support for French sport to EUR 1 billion. Sport is worth 1% of the recovery plan! I would add that volunteerism should be supported and better recognized, while simplifying the day-to-day administrative processes of volunteers. Sport is an important part of education, health, culture, integration, social life and citizenship. In short, rather than simply passing this motion of rejection, I invite us collectively to give ambition to the bill, to muscle it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u129	What a beautiful image, Mr. Juanico!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Sylvie Tolmont and Elsa Faucillon also applaud]] ... and to improve it thanks to all the measures I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u131	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor, in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u132	We want to get into the heart of the matter and allow, in a constructive dialogue, real progress for the sports world, capable of making our country a true sport nation; Our group will also oppose this motion to reject it beforehand. I would like to take advantage of this explanation of vote to raise a slightly broader subject: the inadmissibility of a number of our amendments. If I agree not to overload the texts and find it inadmissible for legislative riders or amendments creating a financial burden, I do not understand why Amendment No 411 has been rejected by the Finance Committee when it does not touch on financial matters, since it aims to promote a better representation of athletes in the governing bodies of the delegated federations. However, an amendment on the same subject and proposing the same mechanism had been accepted in committee. The grounds for inadmissibility raised today, after consulting the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, are financial in nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u133	Mr. Woerth executed orders: Mr. Studer told him to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u134	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We parliamentarians are working very seriously and rigorously. Also, it is a little hard to receive in full, two hours before the start of the discussion, an email declaring this amendment inadmissible for a financial reason while it does not create any financial burden. Generally speaking, we must respect our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u135	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u136	Many of us on these benches regret that a broader bill on sport cannot be discussed. Sport affects a wide range of areas that affect our everyday lives, which must prompt us to develop equipment to encourage its practice, but also to promote its benefits. Sport is also an ecosystem of federations, leagues, associations and economic actors who look forward to action to improve their daily lives. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We will oppose this motion to reject this bill, which includes certain provisions that are urgently needed in terms of governance or economic model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u137	The next speaker is Mr Michel Castellani, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u138	Our group will abstain from voting on the motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by our Socialist colleagues. We are aware of the inadequacies of the text, but we also know that some federations are waiting for it because it has positive elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u139	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u140	I heard a lot of nice words: "democratize sport", "an ambition", "it's a turning point", "reinvent sport", "a great reform", "major advances". We wonder if we're talking about the same text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u141	For once, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u142	When Peggy said to me in Abbeville, "My twins would have liked to play football, but with the license, shoes are too expensive," how is this text going to help him? Nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u143	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u144	When the students tell us, "University is a time to break up sports practice," how will this text come to help them? Nothing. When the specialists tell us that in the past, the children were running the 800 meters in three minutes, compared to four minutes today because sedentaryness has become such a terrible evil as cigarette smoke yesterday, what does the text provide to combat this scourge? Nothing. When the French are today in seventeenth place in Europe, i.e. at the back of the peloton, for physical activity, what does the text provide for them to join the leader of the peloton? Nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u145	Differentiated access to sports facilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u146	What about my son who hasn't been handballing for a year? There's nothing. You tell us how to put women in federations and that's very good, but it has nothing to do with democratizing sport. You're telling us how we're going to run the business, but that doesn't have anything to do with the democratisation of sport either. When I wanted to watch the France-Iceland handball game with my son on 22 January – a time of family reunion – I couldn't do it because the game was aired on a paid Qatari channel to which I must subscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u147	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u148	On this point, nothing is planned. On the contrary, you make a law that punishes piracy to favor business rather than regulate it. Today, to watch the football championships, people have to pay 80 euros, compared to 30 euros before. What does the text provide for to regulate both sports and entertainment? Nothing. We will vote on this motion of rejection because we oppose this "nothing."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u149	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u150	[["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We will use this tool to express our dismay and sadness at the lack of ambition and the narrowness of this text. A large number of amendments were found inadmissible, narrowing the scope of the bill and the ambition of our debates. The review in committee left little hope for possible amendments, and the commitments that had been made, in particular to rewrite Article 1 before the discussion in open session, were not fulfilled. In addition to this, there is a particularly sharp discussion in the meeting, which shows how unappreciated this text is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u151	All right, Mrs Faucillon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u152	We do not even know at what time we will be debating this text! Some of the amendments that have been declared inadmissible concern matters that we believe are essential to the approach to the Olympic and Paralympic Games, while the crisis makes the issue of sport particularly glamorous and prompts us to ask ourselves about our sport model, which must be based on a basis of broad consensus. We will use the bias of the previous rejection motion to express our anger and dismay at the lack of ambition of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u153	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u154	In our chamber, words make sense. When you put forward a motion of rejection, you clearly express your refusal to debate. You tell us: "Move, there's nothing to see! However, during the hearings conducted by the rapporteurs, you have often recognised convergences. You have always shown an open and constructive spirit in your interventions: it is curious on the part of someone who refuses to debate! You tabled twenty-two amendments in committee and forty-three for the sitting: it is curious on the part of someone who refuses to debate! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group. – Ms Sylvie Tolmont also protested]] How can we explain such a reversal if it is not by strictly political motives? You're opposing yourself out of comfort. Although I am trying to remember, I find no significant legislative progress in the field of sport during the previous legislature. Although I try to understand, I do not see any sign of responsibility in your choice, which you are an accountant for millions of athletes, clubs and federations that are waiting so much for our debate. French sport deserves better than esquive and permanent flight. The text is not perfect, but do you know one that is perfect? Do you know an impeccable text that deals with all subjects? Nevertheless, there is real progress in this area. Some of its provisions are even the result of proposals that you have made, for example in the context of the information report you drafted with Cédric Roussel on the evaluation of the Braillard law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u155	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] French sport has the right to the debate that we are starting today. I therefore urge you to strongly reject the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u157	The next speaker is Mr Maxime Minot, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u158	What a disappointment! She's real. The Government boasts a balanced text, certainly, but in nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u159	Parity is nothing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u160	What is certain is that an empty text does not frustrate anyone, but, after two years of discussion, we are far from the original ambition, far from the title of the bill. Apart from some technocratic adjustments, there will be very little left. Mr Juanico, as you said very well, the text is silent on local sports associations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u162	...not necessarily employing employees. They are, however, the ones who make our territory live thanks to their meshing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u163	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will not vote on the rejection motion, but we will not oppose it either, because the sports world deserves a debate at last. We expect a lot from the public sitting, but as Ms. Elsa Faucillon said, the agenda you have chosen – a sharp examination until the end of the week between various bills – shows your little interest in the sports world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u165	Mrs Maud Petit, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u166	Frankly, the text still includes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u167	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u168	... important progress, despite what you say, even though some issues could not be addressed – I also regret it, and I have already made it known in committee last week – including digital and university. Thanks to various devices, the text opens sports practice to as many people as possible. In Title II, it goes further on equality, probity and equity in sports bodies. The reform of the business model marks a major step forward in the fight against illegal streaming or the manipulation of sports competitions. These are the first steps, let us take them as such. The work carried out in committee has made a number of progress – we should welcome it. The adoption of numerous amendments and additional articles – more than 20, I believe – is a clear indication of the legislative ambition and our common desire to move forward towards greater democratisation of sport. In the sitting, we all still have the opportunity to be able to make a proposal. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will be in favour of a sport open to all – young people, seniors, sick people – everywhere in the country – in metropolitan France, overseas – and in all settings, both at university and in business. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] I am convinced that in future debates we will be able to contribute to improving the physical and mental health of our citizens and to strengthening equality. We will therefore participate in social cohesion and integration. That is why our group will not vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u169	In the general discussion, the floor was Ms Sylvie Tolmont.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u170	Régis Juanico has developed many arguments on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group in the context of the motion for a preliminary rejection. However, I would like to return to a number of points. First of all, I want to share with you the pleasure I feel in addressing the subject of sport in the Chamber as we have waited for the great "sports and society" law promised and announced repeatedly since the beginning of the quinquennium by your predecessor...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u171	Who was that again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u172	...and then by yourself, Madam Deputy Minister, a great law that has never come before. In the absence of a large bill, we relied heavily on your majority to introduce a bill reflecting a true vision of the place of sport in our society and a strong ambition for public sport policy. This would have made it possible to highlight, for once, if I dare to say so, parliamentary work. It must be noted that the terms "vision" and "ambitiousness" do not apply to the text that begins today. The bank of the territories evokes a "proposal of a featherweight law": it is generous. When I read the twelve articles, including financial guarantees, of the original version of the text, I would have rather spoken, to stay in the boxing register, of a text weight straw. Because I strongly believe in the role of the legislator, I would say that at the end of the committee we have reached the mid-mouche weight category. Let's be realistic and look at the feather weight at the end of the debates in session! With regard to the sitting, the timetable for the consideration of the bill was a good illustration, once again, of the Government's lack of experience with the bill: for three days, that had been said, from today until Friday, the bill would come after several other texts, which made it difficult to anticipate the hours of discussion. I hope that the parliamentary shuttle will come to an end, even if the agenda set by the Government for this first reading can legitimately cast doubt on the future. I'm coming to the bottom. Despite the fact that the number of articles has increased from twelve to twenty-three at the end of the work in committee, the text remains without vision or ambition, to a thousand leagues of intentions displayed. It is part of the continuity of the decisions taken for almost four years. Since the summer of 2017, the massive elimination of assisted jobs has made it difficult for many sports associations to influence our territories; their representatives regularly alert us on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u173	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u174	The use, every autumn, of accounting artifices to inflate the credits of the Ministry of Sports or mask their reduction, the attempt to challenge the model of the sports technical advisers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u175	That too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u176	... or the disappearance last summer of a full ministry are other illustrations. And how can we not mention the Government's three attempts to draw up a recovery plan for the benefit of the sports world in response to the crisis that it is going through? Despite these attempts, the account is still not there. French sport is at risk today, as demonstrated by a survey by the National Olympic and Sports Committee last autumn: 74% of clubs reported an average loss of 26% of their licensees due to the epidemic and cumulative revenue losses amounted to almost 400 million euros. The complete and prolonged cessation of amateur sport raises fears of a resumption with a number of licensees and volunteers in a free fall. Yet, we have never needed more sport when the crisis leads to physical inactivity and sedentaryness, the effects of which are real health time bombs. There is virtually no question of healthy sport in the text. What about sport at school, which was considered a topic unrelated, even indirect, to the bill to reject our amendments? What about the promotion of physical and sports education? What about measures to ensure a rapid rebound from the practice of physical and sports activities to the lifting of health restrictions? What about financial support measures for amateur sports and two particularly fragile sectors, women's sport and parasports? The small 40 amendments we have tabled meet two objectives: to relaunch the practice of physical and sporting activities; support the sports movement. These are complementary: to promote the resumption of sport is to encourage French and French people to turn to sports associations; To support the sport movement is to foster the development of a rich and diverse range of physical and sporting activities. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Notwithstanding our disappointment at the scope of the text with regard to its objective and the necessary democratisation of sport in France, we will, however, vote in favour of the bill because we believe in parliamentary work and hope that the parliamentary shuttle will enrich the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u177	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u178	Today, our assembly is considering a long-awaited text by the sports movement. The Action Together Group welcomes its inclusion on the agenda in a pivotal moment for French sport. We make a positive assessment of the text because there is no small or large law, there is the law of the Republic, which must apply to all. The text is a real step forward for the sports movement and for the sport nation, which we call for. Indeed, in many ways, the sports movement is at a turning point. At the structural level, first, the sports movement has been changing since the creation of the National Sports Agency in 2019 and the new territorial organisation of sport throughout France. It is also the result of the electoral renewal under way in the governing bodies of the federations. From a societal point of view, French sport is facing a crisis of trust – here I am talking about sexual violence. We must protect practitioners and ensure that sport, in accordance with its values, remains a place of life learning, emancipation and self-building. Finally, in economic terms, players in the sports world are facing the full impact of the current crisis. In fact, the situation is very serious: the 360,000 amateur clubs that make up our territory and contribute greatly to its vitality have lost nearly a third of their licensees. In addition, revenue losses related to the cancellation of sporting events and the significant decrease in sponsorship spending by partner companies themselves weakened by the crisis. Beyond this difficult observation, we must not lose sight of the two objectives underlying our sport project: the development of sport for all; the success of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024. Within three years of this major deadline for our country, a law on sport was needed in order to respond to the various issues. The bill has its source in many parliamentary proceedings. I am thinking of the report by our colleague François Cormier-Bouligeon and Senator Françoise Gatel, entitled "Making France a true sport nation"; to the proposed law on the governance of sport of our colleagues, Pierre-Alain Raphan and Aude Amadou; to the various work of the study group on the economy of sport which I have the honour to co-chair with the rapporteur, Cédric Roussel. I am also thinking of the work carried out by the opposition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u179	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u180	... in particular by our colleagues, Régis Juanico or Marie-George Buffet, each of whom here can salute the expertise,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u182	What about Maxime Minot?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u183	... as well as Maxime Minot's, of course, for the LR group. Our Working Together Group welcomes the progress made by this bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u184	They really rejoice at nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u185	... which introduces several measures to encourage sport, such as the opening of school facilities to outside practitioners, the full recognition of sport within facilities for persons with disabilities or the establishment of local sports plans. The bill will also make it possible to reform the framework for the governance of federations and leagues by establishing full parity within their governing bodies and by limiting the number of presidents to three. Finally, it includes measures relating to the economy of sport and to the strengthening of the fight against piracy, a dangerous and far-reaching phenomenon that threatens our model of solidarity between professional and amateur sport. In committee, our group has enriched the initial drafting of the text in order to strengthen the fight against all forms of discrimination in sport and to consolidate our sport economic model, which has been severely tested by the crisis. We wish to continue along this path and to defend new provisions for the development of sports in companies or for the diversity of the governing bodies of the federations. Because sport is a formidable vector of social cohesion and individual emancipation, because the values of respect, solidarity, perseverance and collective spirit that sport conveys are those that our country needs most, because France, our nation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u186	Big words for such small actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u187	... will have the opportunity to be the sporting showcase of the world very soon during major events, we must carry a true ambition for sport in France. Let us take advantage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024 and the organisation of the Rugby World Cup in France in 2023 to bring this ambition to the fore and to ensure that sport fully irrigates French society through our schools, businesses and health care system. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] The Action Together Group will therefore support this text with conviction. It will make its contribution, modest but total, so that it can fully accompany the transformations at work within the sports movement and make sport a central element of our society. I encourage you to continue to work and vote on this much-awaited text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u188	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u189	First of all, I would like to thank those whose initiative allows us today to consider a bill on this major and unifying issue of sport. After many announcements about the forthcoming arrival of a "sport and society" law, many players in the sports world are certainly looking forward to not being forgotten. When we talk about sport, we actually deal with a wide range of areas: health, the development of our territories, but also the education of younger people or socio-professional inclusion. Madam Minister Delegate, Minister, your joint work sends a clear message: sport is one of the cards available to learn from an early age about the concepts and values that form the foundation. It is precisely because sport is so important to train our young people that I regret to find little mention in this text of the formidable vector of integration that it can constitute, especially in the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods or rural areas. As recently noted by the Grenelle of Education and Inclusion through Sport, these territories are often the most deprived of sports facilities. This is all the more significant damage to our country because the champions of tomorrow, who irrigate the teams of France and bring our country across the world, often come from these territories too often neglected. Thus, while France will soon host the Rugby World Cup and the Olympic and Paralympic Games, investments to develop equipment and sport practice are more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u190	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u191	In the absence of any substantial resources, I would like to welcome the initiative taken in this text to open the sports facilities of our schools to outside actors, particularly associations, outside the training hours. The generalization of this possibility for our colleges and high schools should make it possible to make up for the lack of equipment. We will also propose to extend this proposal to universities and, after constructive discussions in committee, to open up the possibility for companies to use school equipment. In the same way, we would like to have this debate for private institutions under contract, which can sometimes have equally unused sports equipment outside the course periods. We would have liked to have been able to address the issue of school sport in the context of the bill. A study by WHO, the World Health Organization, reveals that almost 80 per cent of our adolescents do not have enough sport on a daily basis. This shows us that the issue of sport from an early age, especially at school, is central. Most importantly, we need to focus on the benefits of sport for students, by allowing them to understand its influence on their education and, above all, their health at an early age. In 2019 as in 2013, the Court of Auditors criticized school sport policy, for example, finding it detrimental to the absence of specific or formalised operational objectives in terms of programmes between the ministries of education and sports. It seems, however, that it is the organisation of sport among young people that poses a problem. The 2S2C device, or Sport-health-culture-civilism, created at the end of confinement, was an interesting experiment on which, Madam Minister, Minister, we would have liked to know your point of view. Finally, the situation of our sports federations and associations, whose losses are in tens of millions of euros, is asking me. I hope that today we will get more information on the implementation of the pass'sport, in particular to ensure that it will allow from the beginning of the 2021 school year to finance the licensing. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the hope that our discussions will further improve this bill, it is with a favourable approach that the IDU and independent group is taking up this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u192	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u193	It must have been a great law "sport and society", a law which, in the words of Laura Flessel, former Minister of Sport, speaks to the people, a law which takes advantage of the hosting of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024 to develop the practice of sport in our country, a law which, according to the wishes of the President of the Republic, was to put 3 million more French into sport by 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u194	We're not there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u195	Without moving forward, I think I can say that this presidential bet will not be won and that this quinquennium will not see a great sport law. We have therefore been reduced to examining a bill whose content is ultimately limited, as has often been said here. It is a consensus text, gathered in a few interesting articles, but with limited ambition and little room for manoeuvre to improve it – the number of amendments deemed inadmissible in committee is indirectly proof of this. However, I would like to commend the perseverance of our colleagues in the majority to put this bill on our agenda. After several attempts on your part, the third try was finally the right one. Will it be transformed? This has yet to be proven. The absence of a major sports law is doubly regrettable and can be seen as a renunciation of an ambitious sports policy. First, our country has not hosted the Olympic Games in a hundred years and, beyond the international showcase they offer, should have been an opportunity to build a legacy that is not just material. Sport at school, in business and in the territories, as well as health sport, are all elements that need to be consolidated through ambitious accompanying policies. Our regret is justified by the context of a health and economic crisis, which, as we know, has caused a terrible blow to the sports world: the number of licences has fallen from 25% to 30% and dozens of sports associations are threatened with disappearance. To all of these issues, the bill responds only inadequately, as the question of means is not addressed. Deputy Minister, Minister, where have we been since the announcement of the generalization of the pass'sport, which is very much expected? If we need such a tool, we also need to rebuild the sport economic model. Once again, we call for a deflation of the taxes allocated to the National Sport Agency, whether the Buffet tax on television broadcasting rights or the sports betting tax, because it is essential for the principle that sport finances sport to be respected. On the other hand, we welcome the possibility for associations to form cooperative societies of collective interest. The example of the Sporting Club of Bastia, dear to many of us, I am sure, must be a model for many other interested structures. The fight against illegal streaming also deserves our greatest attention: it is the whole purpose of article 10. The question of the means available to HADOPI, however, is not resolved, and we will certainly rest it when we look at the bill to merge it with the CSA, the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel, next spring. Finally, provisions on democratic renewal in federations are welcome, but with the same regret that they do not apply to the Olympiad of Paris 2024. In the face of democratic weakness in a large number of federations, it was important to review the electoral system to end the system of large voters, which sometimes favours the blocking of federal executives. However, we will propose to better involve the licensees, as well as high-level athletes. We also welcome the provisions aimed at improving parity in the forums, as well as the monitoring of the good repute of all elected members and leaders. The revelations about sexual violence have upset the sports movement, just as they upset society. It is more than time to seize this subject. Despite all these positive measures, what legacy will this government leave in terms of sport for all, beyond the establishment of the National Agency for Sport and the attachment of the Ministry of Sports to national education? The role of the State in determining national sport policy needs to be clarified and strengthened, building on a strong and high-quality public service. To use a sports metaphor, the government still needs to muscle its game because, on all the aspects I have mentioned, the game is still far from being won.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u196	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u197	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] Deputy Minister, Minister, I am pleased to see you here because you were not in committee. Don't worry, you haven't lost anything! Madam and gentlemen, on February 4, the Bank of the Territories called your bill a "fineweight." I agree with him. In my opinion, this text does not deserve its title, because it does not in any way democratise sport in France. In 2017, the presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron made the following promise: "We will fight to allow everyone to engage in a sporting activity." However, neither the majority's record for almost four years nor this text meet the ambitions of the time and the expectations of the sports sector. Mr Minister, there is nothing about Jean Zay in this bill, because you do not really envisage any additional resources in financial, structural or human terms, and do not plan any construction of sports facilities to achieve greater territorial equality, as he called for. I fear that this text will be another incantation in the litany of your good intentions. The bill is in complete contrast to the situation of a health crisis that we are going through. Amateur clubs are in great financial difficulty. Practitioners give up sport for lack of financial means. In particular, they cannot renew their licences, equip themselves with equipment or cover the costs of their mobility. According to the World Health Organization, sedentaryness is responsible every year in the world for 2 million deaths, as well as for many chronic diseases. Physical inactivity kills ten times more each year than road accidents. The containment and restriction of sporting opportunities require urgent measures to develop healthy sport, but these problems are not seriously addressed in any of the articles proposed for discussion. It is time to re-examine the model on which our sports policy is built. This bill opened up the possibility of exchanging information on the public service of sport, on popular education, on the financing of the sports movement, on the governance of sports federations and on the role of licensees and the public in decision-making. In fact, it does not understand any of these aspects, which are fundamental to the real democratisation of sport. In committee, we had lengthy discussions on the framework for the broadcasting rights of sports competitions. The Mediapro case certainly has something to do with it, but you don't seem to have all the consequences of such a fiasco. The first injured parties in this case are amateur clubs, which do not participate in any way in the decision to redistribute subsidies and are also dispossessed of a financial manna which they had sometimes provided for in their forecast budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u198	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u199	I have put forward in committee the idea of a Sanctuarisation of this financial manna which would represent the Buffet tax resulting from the retransmission rights. We could imagine that after the signature of a contract whose exact amount is known, we could safeguard the dedicated envelope fed by this tax and systematically assign it to amateur sport, its legitimate recipient. You have rejected this proposal, in your view, it is inadmissible. During the examination in committee, the group of France, which was not submitted, tabled numerous amendments proposing to invest itself fully in the service of the general interest for an emancipatory sport: almost half of them were swept away with a backhand, considered inadmissible, thus preventing you from confronting your mercantile vision with our constructive and ambitious vision for sport. I regret that our debates in committee have been so barren and hollow because of the lack of political content in the bill. In the public debate, once again, more than half of our amendments will not be discussed. These are some examples of what you do not see as part of the democratisation of sport, and that should therefore be excluded from our debates: sport at school, first of all. You talked about it, Minister, to talk about the links between sport and national education. However, we had tabled an amendment proposing the establishment of sports associations, particularly within the school, which was deemed inadmissible. The promotion of women's sport: inadmissible! Swimming learning: inadmissible! Accessibility of persons with disabilities to sports equipment: inadmissible! Recognition of the specificity of the deaf and hard of hearing in Olympic sports competitions: inadmissible! Inclusion of parity in sports retransmissions: inadmissible! The deployment of sports technical advisers throughout the territory: inadmissible! Even the promotion of the moral and ethical values conveyed by sport does not deserve attention in your opinion. [[François Ruffin and Elsa Faucillon applaud]] For the second time in ten days, you have censored everything, so we will not even be able to debate these issues in the Chamber. So let me tell you again: your text is very small and your censorship is far too big.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u200	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u201	Communist MPs regret that we had such a small bill at a time when we had a great opportunity to strengthen our sport model – the first since the beginning of the quinquennium. The achievement of the Olympic and Paralympic Games should have been a driving force for a structuring reform of sport in France. Launching a major plan for the development of practices, strengthening the public service of sport by creating a powerful ministry and a "youth and sports" administration with the missions found, renewing the sharing of public service missions with the federations, strengthening the local authorities in human and financial resources to develop sports policies in the territories: this is a summary of what we expected from the "sports and society" law that was promised to us. Instead, the budget of the Ministry of Sport was drastically reduced in the first two fiscal years. At the end of 2018, we voted blindly to transfer funds from the CNDS – the National Centre for the Development of Sport – to the new National Agency for Sport, even though it has not yet been set up. Then, in April 2019, the agency was created and its missions were defined, without knowing what really remained of the Ministry of Sports. Indeed, it has lost its status as a full-service ministry to be attached to that of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u202	It's not annoyance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u203	[[Smile]] No, I didn't. Madam Minister Delegate, we share your willingness to give priority to sport as an educational tool. That's why we fought to get EPS and school sport into the text. But our amendments on this matter were found inadmissible – which we denounced in committee – on the grounds that they were unrelated to the bill. Why? Because the EPS was not mentioned anywhere in the text! In fact, it was the great absence of the bill, and we see that the connection of the Ministry of Sports with that of national education does not produce any concrete effects in the law. The EPS was finally added, but our amendments were again declared inadmissible. The Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports has launched a campaign to "move" students 30 minutes a day. But EPS and school sport is not "moving"! It is a matter in its own right, in both the first and the second degree. The tremendous work of first-degree teachers and teachers of EPS during the compulsory courses, as well as within the USEP – Sports Union of First Level Education – and the UNSS – National School Sport Union – is caricatured and relegated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u205	The EPS training of first degree teachers is reduced to grievous skin, and it will be even worse next year. What signal do we send, while school is the only place where every child practises sport, which makes you want to practice outside? The draft law contains advances in equipment and the inclusion of sports infrastructure in urban planning. It should be welcomed, because access to equipment is often the nerve of war, but we must also treat access to natural sites and spaces as part of the development of natural sports. The sport code is at the crossroads of several public policies: we need to strengthen and adapt it to accompany the development of sport with respect for the environment. We hope that the public sitting will allow us to move forward more than in committee on the parallel debate on easements of access and the regime of responsibilities. In addition, we support the provisions on parity within the federations, and we will present an amendment to ensure parity within the French National Olympic and Sports Committee. We take note of the end of the term of office of its President, and thank the candidates for his succession for their written commitment to introduce this provision without waiting for the law, in order to meet the requirements of independence of the IOC – International Olympic Committee. I would also like to pay tribute to the 4,500 officers of the Directorates of Youth, Sports and Social Cohesion, whose staff, divided by half in ten years, have been drastically reduced. They find themselves in a state of administration and, as a result of public service reforms, they have gradually lost their missions. What says sport is public service, which refers to the women and men who are involved in it on a daily basis: without them, no development of practices, no high level – we saw it during the mobilization of the CTS, the sports technical advisers, but you know better than anyone, Madam Minister Delegate. Finally, we will propose a series of amendments incorporating the motion for a resolution by Marie-George Buffet for a public service in favour of a sport culture for all and for all. This widely co-signed text has been the subject of collegial work that you have followed, Madam Minister Delegate, especially those who have concluded that "access to sport is an essential right". We therefore count on you to support our amendments and to enable them to be adopted and incorporated into Article 1 of the Sports Code. These amendments are the result of several years of work, and their adoption would be a very positive signal to the sports movement. For the time being, the GDR Group can only note the shortcomings of the text and the impossibility of addressing many issues. As it stands, we will not be able to vote in favour of the bill, but I hope that the hours that will come...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u206	Dark hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u207	[[Michel Larive, Maxime Minot and Sylvie Tolmont applaud]] ... will allow us to get some progress on our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u208	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u209	What are we thinking about when we start considering a bill to democratize sport? Some think of interests, fighting – old or new – and others think of numbers or budgets. I think first of all of this child who, for the first time, pushes the door of a gym, in the shade of the chimneys of the factory; to this child who meets Roger Bertozzi and understands that one can give time, heart and much of his life for children and adolescents to flourish and build themselves in sport. I am also thinking of this child who knows and progresses under the advice of Christophe Ambrosini, and who understands both the whole discipline and the fullness of sports practice. I am still thinking of this child who is close to Frédéric Horth and who understands that a lot of things, in a commune, are formed around sports clubs and disciplines. This child has grown up: sport is not his profession, but his passion. Much of his political commitment, too. He meets other heroes of everyday sport: Marie-Hélènes who convince thousands of women to run against breast cancer, Jean-Maries who dedicate themselves body and soul to the practice of sport for disabled people, marathon companions, marathon of sands or others, who understand that only humility leads towards arrival. These are the sport nation, a nation that still needs to do a lot for sport and the development of sport practices. This is the path drawn by the President of the Republic as early as 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u210	A great athlete!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u211	The work done over the past three years has resulted in the creation of the National Sport Agency and the Sport-Health Homes, as well as the launch of the aquatic recreation plan and the "know-how cycling" program. This is also the meaning of initiatives such as the "Sport Parliament", the various information reports on all the benches, or the two parliamentary study groups dedicated to sport. I will tell you, rehearsing a famous statement by Louis Pasteur, "Let me reveal to you the secret that has led us to achieve [our] goal: [our] strength rests solely on [our] tenacity." Tenaces, we have been in our will to change the French sports system. The relatively simple model of the 1960s and 1970s has become more complex, due to the massification of sports practice, especially women, and the emergence of new practices. This phenomenon has also intensified, leading to the need to reform this model. Tenaces, we have also been when it comes to learning the lessons of the health crisis, which has deeply reached the sports world, especially the community. We have been persistent and here we are, ladies and gentlemen: after a passage to committee which has enriched and consolidated the original arrangements, the text is now presented to national representation. It is an honour for Parliament, a proof of the vitality of our representative democracy that shows a majority at work...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u212	Marie-George, where are you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u213	... engaged on an important subject for millions of French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u214	When there's so much emphasis, there's no background!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u215	This topic is all the more important as the numbers of sedentaryness and its consequences for physical and mental health are ever more worrying. The observation is shared: systemic and coordinated action is needed. Physical and sporting activity must cease to be seen, in France, as a public policy or a leisure among others: it must irrigate the daily life of each of us, become a habit, integrate our art of living with French. The spirit and values of Olympism, which will be in the spotlight in three years' time in France, must enter every home. The achievement of this ambition, which I know is shared among you, requires a profound modernisation of our relationship to sport. First of all, we need to modernise by promoting the development of practice for the greatest number of people. As such, the easier use of sports facilities in schools, colleges and high schools outside of school time is a significant step forward. The work in committee has made it possible to strengthen health sport in its primary prevention dimension, in particular by strengthening the support to sport of persons in care in medical and medical-social institutions. The debate that is opening today will allow us to complete the system...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u216	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u217	... and to address the issue of prescription of sport by prescription. We must then modernise, by transposing to the governing bodies of the federations the rules that already govern our democratic life. We are opening the way for, and proud of, feminized, renewed, equitable and ethical governance of sport. The discussions in the committee also allowed us to consolidate the guarantees of the good repute of the arbitrators and the judges. To modernise, finally, is to protect the sport economic model against the threats that have emerged with the digital age, such as illegal streaming or online betting manipulation. These uses are the cause of an extremely important loss of earnings for sport, both amateur and professional. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] All of these provisions are essential in order to initiate a cultural revolution and make sport a real factor of emancipation for all. On all the benches, we are committed to it, and I have no doubt that we will once again be able to make exemplary use of the debate and the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u218	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u219	The crisis that we have been going through for over a year has had a serious impact on the sports sector. The various measures taken by the Government to try to stop the epidemic of covid -19 – widespread confinement, confinement on weekends, closure of sports halls, introduction of curfews – have severely undermined the sports practices of our fellow citizens. However, all experts agree that sports activity improves the quality of life and sleep and, in the longer term, reduces the risk of illness. In the face of this situation, which can only lead to a deterioration in the health of our compatriots, a strong response must be given. In times of health crisis, less than four years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, there is an urgent need for France to adopt an ambitious and effective sports policy, in order to make our country a true sport nation and to promote access to sport for as many people as possible. After three years of waiting, the presidential majority finally decided – and this is so much better – to defend in Parliament a bill aimed at democratizing sport in France. While this text, which has a strong ambition, is welcome, it is very far from being the great "sports and society" bill, announced repeatedly by former sports minister Laura Flessel, and then you, the deputy minister, which has been repeatedly postponed. This bill, containing twelve articles, is structured in three parts, respectively on the development of sport practice, the renewal of governing bodies and the financing of sport. It aims first of all to facilitate access by outside users to school, current and future sports equipment. It then intends to promote democratic life within the governing bodies of sports federations, by limiting to three the number of full-exercise mandates that the same person may hold as president of one of these federations; Moreover, it imposes full parity within national and deconcentrated bodies representing more than a quarter of the licensees. It also plans to reform the modalities of federal elections so that club presidents, starting in 2024, make up at least 50 per cent of the electoral college and 50 per cent of the votes in each election. It proposes to increase financial transparency by extending to all elected members of the governing bodies the obligation to declare assets with HATVP, the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. Finally, it aspires to better combat piracy and illegal streaming. While this bill therefore seems to be in the right direction, it is much less ambitious than the original text, which many sports federations regret. For sports professionals, the choice to focus mainly on the governance of federations was made at the expense of the development of practice in France and of a plan to revive the sector. Nothing about the financing of local sports associations, now in great pain: at the very moment when they are suffering the effects of the health crisis, all these structures essential for sport practice in our territories and simply to live together, as has been repeated many times, are the great forgotten of the bill. I am not just talking about those who employ employees, but about those – the vast majority – who live only through their volunteers. In committee, I had expressed my fear of the mountain giving birth to a mouse: if the majority systematically rejects our proposals, and if it does not muscle its text elsewhere, that will unfortunately be the case. Moreover, let us not forget the scandal of the inadmissibility of our amendments. You will tell me that the National Olympic and Sports Committee has adopted almost unanimously – more than 80% of the votes – each of the articles in the text; But, I repeat, a text that does not move any lines generally does not upset anyone. The Republican Group was initially inclined to support this bill, provided that the majority showed openness and accepted reciprocal concessions; It must be noted that, in accordance with its usual practice, the opposition has ignored the opposition's proposals. This partisan spirit is far from the title of the text, which requires us to work together. If my amendment to the effect that this text should not be dealt with by another increase in the price of tobacco, but by the creation of a new tax on sports betting, has been accepted in committee, this was not the case for the vast majority of the amendments tabled by members of our group. In addition, the only truly ambitious measure of this bill, i.e. the possibility for professional leagues to create a company allowing the marketing and management of audiovisual exploitation rights, was the amendment of the rapporteur for Title III, to which the group The Republicans were very supportive, and were eventually "withdrawn" by the Government in committee. I hope that the consideration of my amendment will make it possible to adopt this provision; In the meantime, this text is only an empty shell,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u220	Cosmetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u221	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... without ambition, without effective measures in order to revive the practice of sport in France and to promote its democratisation. It would take a lot more to convince our group to join.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u222	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u223	Today we are considering the bill to democratise sport in France. At the end of its constructive examination by the Committee on Cultural Affairs, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes the opportunity it represents, at the very moment when the covid -19 pandemic, which has changed our habits for more than a year, attests to the need for French commitment to sport. High-level sport, amateur sport, adapted sport, physical activity: everyone can find their place, their rhythm, their balance. It is therefore in order to best accompany everyone's sports project, to underline the importance of physical practice in the development of a healthy and balanced lifestyle, that our group has been heavily involved in the examination of this text. Our commitment in this area is not new. Starting in 2017, we invested heavily in the bill to organize the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024; in 2019, in the draft law on the establishment of the National Sports Agency. Today, we are actively participating in the 2024 Games working groups. This is at the heart of our concerns. My colleague Perrine Goulet has been Special Rapporteur of the Finance Committee for the funding of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission; In 2019, I wrote an information report on sport and health in overseas countries and territories. I repeat, the work of the committee has led to progress. The adoption of some 50 amendments, which have included the addition of several additional articles, is a testament to our legislative ambition and our common will...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u224	The members of associations cry when they hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u225	...to democratize sport. It should be recalled that Article 1 of the text, which aims to ensure that physical and sporting activities are integrated into the tasks of social and medical-social institutions, constitutes an important signal: an increased openness of sports practice to people who are dependent, disabled or in situations of social exclusion. To the same end, we will propose an amendment to extend the prescription of healthy sport to various chronic diseases. These provisions will, in particular, allow specialists, not just treating physicians, to prescribe sport as part of their patient's care journey. This would be a crucial step towards access to sport for all, including the sick. We will also make proposals for intergenerational sport practice. Article 2, which provides that school sports equipment may be made available to outside users, has been enriched in committee, in particular with a view to systematising independent access to such equipment. We support all the mechanisms that are part of this dynamic, as they will benefit diverse audiences and increase the number of facilities accessible throughout the French territory. In committee, we referred to the need to pay particular attention to the sport practice of young people: we will present an amendment to allow the review of the "sportsman hope" candidates included in the federal performance projects. In addition, in order to encourage regular sport, we are committed to its professional development, which we believe is essential. Our group supports the promotion of territorial collective agreements in partnership with companies, and proposes the creation of a sports title, based on the title-restaurant, in order to contribute to better access to sport for employees and public servants. With regard to Title II, on governance, the members of the Dem Group are committed to taking account of the specificities of all our territories. That is why we want to give leagues and overseas sports committees the opportunity to join or join international federations. This would promote the outreach of ultramarine sports organizations in their respective regional basins. Our group has also invested heavily in the examination of Title III, on the sport economic model. We are pleased with the progress made by the adoption in committee of our amendment on the inclusion of HADOPI as a trusted third party in the fight against illegal streaming. Finally, we would like to stress the importance of the links between sport and digital technology, which we have not had the opportunity to express in this text. Our group would like to be informed about the progress of the digitalisation and digital transformation plan for sport as part of the recovery plan. During the first confinement, the digital tool led to the emergence of new sports practices; We must encourage this complementary dynamic. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] You will understand this: the Dem Group welcomes this text, which brings with it many advances. Our work and our exchanges in committee demonstrate a certain willingness to accompany sport to all. The proposals we are defending today reflect this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u226	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u227	According to a survey conducted by the FIFG at the request of Urban Sports Club, 89% of French people believe that physical activity promotes well-being and does good morale. The health crisis has even reinforced this view. Let's look at things on the right side: 43% of French people have had more physical activity during periods of confinement, 60% see sport as a relief valve in time of confinement or telework, 63% consider it a real source of pleasure. These figures are positive. Yet, according to a study of the Eurobarometer cited in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the sport practice of our fellow citizens is decreasing; 42% say they never do sport, the most distant audiences being paradoxically those who would a priori have more time: job seekers, pensioners, workers and housewives. This disaffection has many causes, of which the lack of time and the lack of accessible equipment are most frequently cited. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The desire to open up sports infrastructure to as many people as possible is certainly commendable, and deserves to be welcomed; However, there are a number of questions about their actual availability. That future schools include independent access to sports facilities, as provided for in Article 2 of the text, is an excellent measure on paper; We are already doing so in my city of Béziers and we plan to continue to do so for the establishments under construction or planned for construction, even if such arrangements involve strengthening safety devices, even if they represent a significant cost to the municipality, even if we question the responsibility of each other in the event of an accident, injury or malicious act. To these questions, it is our duty to find the answers: I did not find them in your text. You will allow me another remark: local elected officials are not systematically associated enough with the measures provided for in the bill. Yet sport is by definition a matter of proximity; which says proximity, says responsibility and involvement of local elected officials. That is why I would like to propose a few amendments aimed at involving them more closely in the areas which concern them. In addition, the agreements signed between the municipalities and the colleges or lycées which do not have sports facilities raise questions again. Indeed, the hourly cost of these rentals, fixed by the department or the region – at least in my case – is often well below the cost actually borne by the municipalities. I have therefore tabled an amendment on this practice. Finally, you have added to this bill an article 11 bis: "Within six months of the enactment of this law, the Government shall submit to Parliament a report on the impact of the current crisis on the sports partnership spending of companies and ways to encourage them with a view to hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. Allow me, in a moment of pure chauvinism, to speak to you once again of Béziers, the city of rugby if it is,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u228	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u229	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] ... the city of the club most named after Toulouse: eleven times champion of France! I therefore take this opportunity to send a friendly greeting to the players, the staff, the supporters, whom the health crisis has deprived of ground. In addition, if the fact that Paris hosts the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 is a major sporting event, let's not forget that the next Rugby World Cup will also take place in France, from Friday, September 8 to Saturday, October 28, 2023. As you may know, this event counts locally a lot for cities such as Béziers; We are also one of the selected communes that will be proposed as a base camp for the national teams. Since the Government would have to submit a report to Parliament, it would be useful to include the consequences of the health crisis on the sports partnerships linked to this high-colour and high-quality sporting event. Life exists elsewhere than in Paris, and our regions depend on the components of their identity, of which rugby is undeniably a part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u230	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u231	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, Roxana Maracinanu and I have been attentive to everything that has been said. One argument was used by those who objected to the bill: it would not resolve everything. That is what we sometimes say when we have nothing else to say. It is clear that this text will not solve everything. This proposal must be seen again in the context of what has been done for sport since 2017 and, in this case, the assessment is obviously different from the one that was presented. First, the union of our two departments must be emphasized and you must not underestimate its importance. I note that Mr Juanico and Mrs Faucillon made totally contradictory comments on this subject: Mr Juanico believes that we are not going far enough – for example with the 30 minutes of physical activity a day – while Mrs Faucillon considers that this is only a gadget that should not exist. In reality, this measure is one of the fruits of the union of our two ministries: we now have the reflex, at all levels of the school system, to introduce physical education and sport, in various ways and with a lot of pragmatism, drawing on the best of the history of the Republic. The drafting of the bill was largely based on listening and consultation; suggestions from all walks of life have been integrated. This text seems to us to be very constructive because it crowns the efforts we have been making for several years now, especially for several months, to bring education and sport closer together. It would be regrettable if you were to underestimate the scope of this rapprochement today. I mentioned earlier the educational alliances in the territories, for example: they correspond to something that you deplored the absence – probably because you did not measure their scope. In concrete terms, this provision will allow for an increase in the presence of associations in primary schools in the future – I am, in any case, committed to encouraging such a development. It goes hand in hand, moreover, with the development of cultural activities and, more generally, with everything that contributes to the development of the child. We are only at the beginning of this discussion; I therefore invite everyone to assess the scope of each article. Mr. Minot, you said that the mountain was giving birth to a mouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u232	From a mule!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u233	A Russian hamster!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u234	The future will tell; Let's meet and we'll see what's going on. I believe, on the contrary, that this text is a forward-looking one. Does the bill regulate everything? No, other subjects will be dealt with elsewhere than in this text, which will crown efforts and mark a step. Some expressed regret that the text did not provide for anything about school issues, for example. I would like to remind them that the bill already contains everything I have just mentioned and that other measures are consistent, even if they are not included in the text. I am thinking of the creation of the professional bachelor's degree in sport, which is in preparation, or of the choice of making physical and sports education a specialty education as part of the reform of the bachelor's degree. This last decision, which I had to make recently, is completely new: four hours of instruction will be given in first class and six hours in senior class, which will open up new sports routes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u235	It is not national education that will solve the problem of sport!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u236	[[Smile]] Anyway, the EPS is a horseman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u237	The initiatives we take in general education, technological education and vocational education prepare new sports professionals for the future...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u238	This isn't new!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u239	... and contribute to a better impregnation of sport in the school system. Physical and sports education will be stimulated by these new realities. The importance of such a measure as the opening up of school facilities to the outside world was highlighted at the moment. She's been in demand for decades! This bill now opens up this possibility in a systematic way. It is not only a very concrete measure, but it is also a symbol: we build bridges rather than building walls between the school world, the extracurricular world and the extracurricular world. This is how, for example, learning holidays,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u240	That's not funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u241	... which are in the extracurricular field, will also allow children to practice much more sport. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we are all in reality starting from the same point of view and that we have all said the same thing – which normally should lead us on the same path. This finding is that of the too weak sport practice of our fellow citizens in general, of children in particular, and of too much sedentaryness – a global phenomenon from which health problems, including obesity, arise. This bill provides answers on these subjects, which are not always specific to France. Of course, it does not provide all the answers, but this argument is weak, because the full text of the pre-existing measures will certainly be enriched by future provisions, probably of a regulatory nature. These will aim at a concrete objective around which I am certain that we all find ourselves: a sport practice widespread to the entire population – the democratic issue – which carries the values of the Republic – the republican dimension of the text – by promoting the values of freedom, equality and fraternity that are consubstantial to sport. This text will therefore be a very important milestone – I am all the more pleased to say that it is an own-initiative text which also takes account of a series of work, as has been mentioned earlier. It is therefore a text that I will describe as very collective, both in terms of its drafting and its purpose. I am sure that the debates, by allowing amendments with changes and changes, will enrich it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u242	We'll see about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u243	It therefore seems to me that we would benefit from adopting a very consensual or, at the very least, very constructive approach to a text that takes on an essential issue. It is an honour for me to say in this Chamber that I will always play fully the game of national education, youth and sports. This union was desired by youth and sports agents. There is therefore no reason, Mr Juanico, to stir up any fears about this: it is many agents of the state who, as soon as I took up my duties in 2017, told me how much they wanted this development. This has now been done nationally and territorially. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is, I repeat, an honour for me, in line with many of my predecessors – but by renewing a link that had been interrupted – to play completely the game of the union of national education, youth and sports. I see in this bill not the application of all the consequences of this union, but very important consequences which, I repeat, will be supplemented in the future by other provisions. This makes me optimistic about the future of sport in France, at a time when we are going to organise major international competitions and where, as you have all said, France will be at the centre of the major sporting stakes of our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u244	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u245	Mrs Aude Amadou has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u246	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] It is based on Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. I wonder about the objectives of this bill to democratize sport. In my view, democratization must involve greater accessibility, greater representation and a more democratic functioning of the bodies. I regret that one third of my amendments were considered inadmissible, as they addressed these issues well. I understand, by hearing my colleagues, that I am no exception since this concerns a total of 35 % of the amendments. I would like to refer the Speaker of the National Assembly, Richard Ferrand, to ask him to be more vigilant. By taking too many precautions based on case law, we restrict our right to amend and we no longer meet the real expectations of the citizens we represent. [["Yes! » and applause on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] I know very well what sport has brought me; If I am before you today to discuss this bill, it is also as a former sportsman. However, the case of certain players in sport is not dealt with in this text: coaches, volunteers, referees. We know very well, however, that without them there is no sport. The text does not refer to all these topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u247	Well done, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u248	In motion is down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u249	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor for another point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u250	It is also based on Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. I can only abound in the words of my colleague Aude Amadou: 35% inadmissibility in the fourth year of the legislature, that raises questions. Members are more prolific, it is a fact, but we can still question this rate. Far from my idea of political censorship, as some opposition groups may think. In any event, the reading of the Constitutional Council's jurisprudence must question us. The interpretation of the constitutional limit on the tabling of amendments in relation to the content of the text originally tabled must question us. I am not making a polemic, ladies and gentlemen, but rather an appeal: it would probably be necessary for the Committee on Laws to establish a clear rule. To illustrate my point, I recall that Gilles Carrez, when he was Chairman of the Finance Committee in 2017, wrote a report on the financial admissibility of parliamentary initiatives, not so far away. This report presents the case law on financial admissibility in the context of finance bills and social security financing bills. For the text before us today, some amendments have been found inadmissible, while others, dealing with the same subject or even the same subject, have been found admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u251	Sometimes they were the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u252	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We need to clarify this situation. The question must be collective, because it is regrettable to miss out today on the fine proposals contained in the amendments, for a simple problem connected with Article 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u253	If the majority say so too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u254	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u255	We are indeed seeing a wind of indignation at the way this text was built and examined on all benches – far from your calls to be consensual and constructive, Minister. The fact that this movement even comes from the ranks of your majority shows the depth and gravity of the problem. [[Michel Larive applauds]] At a time when many of our clubs are suffering and on the edge of the precipice, at a time when, Madam Minister Delegate, you are preventing many of our young people from living their passion, even if they could do so in healthy and secure conditions, this debate is of great importance. When we table amendments that are fully related to the text and to each of the chapters – for example, on the training of volunteers in healthy sport, on the accessibility of prescriptions or on the use of infrastructure – and 60 or 70% of them are declared inadmissible, this is not acceptable. Minister, I am sending you back exactly what you told us: listening works in both directions; being constructive too. If you wish to reach a successful text, you will also have to make efforts and listen to our proposals. Finally, I regret that you have placed the Minister Delegate and Sport under the supervision of national education; We can see that with the examination of this text. National education does not have all the solutions to develop sport in France, whose practice is above all associative. The teaching of physical education cannot replace the practice of sport and the physical activity of our youth. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All this, you will have to hear it in this debate; Otherwise, it's just cosmetics and a debate for nothing. Sport in France and the fight against sedentaryness are issues that must not be missed. Everyone must be aware here that this is the last opportunity to act on this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u256	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u257	I will accept a request for a group-by-group point of order. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u258	This point of order is also based on Rule 100 and is in line with those of my colleagues. I find it difficult today to consider that the question posed by inadmissibility would be only of a jurisprudential and technical nature. Perhaps we need to clarify certain things and better standardise them, but the avoidance and censorship of certain amendments today – in my view at least – is a political choice. I will cite just one example: in committee, amendments to the EPS were found inadmissible on the grounds that this subject was not dealt with in the text. Today, however, the EPS is included in Rule 3b, but the amendments we tabled for the public sitting on this subject are rejected on the same basis as in committee. I find it difficult to consider, in these circumstances, that the debate would be purely jurisprudential. I therefore express our anger at the number of amendments rejected, which restricts the possibility of reaching the larger text which I believe many of us want. On this text in particular, the rejection of the amendments poses an obvious problem. (Applause from the benches of the LR group. – Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon, Mrs Amelia Lakrafi and Mr François Ruffin also applauded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u259	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u260	I thank our colleague from The Republic on the move for raising the issue because the opposition's comments are of little value, while the majority's voice is more important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u261	Several votes of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u262	And a high-performance sportsman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u263	I therefore thank our colleague for doing so. For our group, the proportion of amendments declared inadmissible is 55 %! But each of them has asked our collaborators for work: these are not proposals in the air. Whether it was mine, which dealt with sports educators in the neighbourhoods, the sports check, the reimbursement of sports on prescription, or those of my colleague Michel Larive relating to the learning of swimming, sport at school, the promotion of women's sport, there could be no political debate on the substance. The text is entitled "Democratizing sport in France": we should at least be able to discuss these issues, even if our amendments are not adopted – we are used to losing, anyway. Inadmissibility is on technical ground and it is not clear why it applies to certain amendments and not to others. To illustrate its arbitrary nature, I would like to mention the case of our amendment on the preference to be given to public channels for the retransmission of competitions in which national teams compete. In committee, it was declared inadmissible, but because we wanted to table it for the public sitting, we made a phone call, and it may be recovered – I don't know yet if that will be the case and if I can defend it. It's complete DIY!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u264	This is the reign of arbitrariness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u265	If the text had been entitled "Proposal for a law on some DIY measures in favour of French sport",...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u266	A few gauges!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u267	...we could have voted on it. Since its scope is limited, we would almost have understood that some of our amendments are declared inadmissible. But here, you yourself show your willingness to open the debate by saying that the text aims, that is its title, to "democratize sport in France". If this is the case, then accept the ideas coming from benches that are not yours, from the right as well as from the left, without those coming from your own ranks. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] I very much regret that many amendments have been declared inadmissible, a problem which goes beyond this text in particular. I am pleased that these reminders to the Rules of Procedure on the arbitrary elimination of certain amendments have been made and I hope that these protests will go back to the presidency of the National Assembly. It can't go on like this anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u268	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u269	Mr President, that makes two points of order for the same group!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u270	On the basis of rule 100, Mr. Chair. [[Smile]] Mr Ruffin, we can, like you, have a very nice name, love sport, defend it and want to denounce the fact that many amendments go to the trap, without being caricatural. For my part, I will say things a little simpler. The text has been rather long and we have had a lot of difficulty putting it on the agenda of our Assembly, but we have managed to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Its title II aims to improve the governance of federations. In committee, we have defended an amendment, which is considered admissible, to ensure that each of the federations has a high-level Athletes' Commission – this is the case today in five of them – and that two of their representatives, a woman and a man, sit in the governing bodies with a deliberative voice. It was almost adopted, but unfortunately it was rejected, following a regrettable incident. When we re-tabled it for the meeting, it was declared inadmissible not under article 45 of the Constitution, but under article 40. The Government has nothing to do with this: it is really an internal problem in our Assembly. I do not see how setting up a high-level athlete commission within federations would cost the state money. This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u271	He's right: it's really a skill problem at this level!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u272	The federations are independent: they are, of course, financed in part with state appropriations, but also with funds that they will seek themselves. The establishment of these Athletes' Commissions would not affect public finances. It is essential that these high-level sportsmen and women be represented in the bodies of their federations in order to ensure the conditions for their career, as well as their post-career. We care very little about what they become as they make sacrifices for ten or twenty years to wear the colours of our flag and make France shine everywhere in national, European and international competitions. That this amendment has been declared inadmissible remains incomprehensible and I hope that in the next few minutes or hours we will find a solution to make the voice of these high-performance athletes heard. This proposal does not come out of our hat, it has been worked by athletes for months and validated at the General Assembly of the French National Olympic Sports Committee on January 25. National representation must be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to echo these points of order with the President of this House. The fact that they come from all the benches shows that there has been no political manipulation of inadmissibility, which I have already heard on other occasions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u274	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u275	No, but I wanted to make it clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u276	It's better to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u277	Personally, since I was at the perch, I have rarely seen cases, even if the error is human, where inadmissibility was not in accordance with practice or rules. Let us take the specific example of Amendment No 411 on Mr Bournazel's federations, which he mentioned earlier – this will allow me to reply also to Mr Cormier-Bouligeon, who took this example. Under the previous legislature, Mr Carrez, then Chairman of the Law Commission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u278	No, Chairman of the Finance Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u279	... established in the information report referred to by Mrs Goulet a doctrine according to which federations, because they are very widely financed by the State, fall under article 40 of the Constitution. I do not want to judge the substance or say that there are no possible developments, but that is the rule laid down under the previous legislature. The case law on this matter is written black and white, and I have even allowed myself to send a copy of it to Mr Bournazel after his speech. This debate is important and these reminders to the Rules of Procedure are of course legitimate but do not speak of 'handicraft'. The services are working hard to try to give legal basis to decisions on amendments. It should be noted that those who were declared inadmissible for consideration in the meeting had previously been, by a large majority, declared inadmissible for consideration in the committee. With a few exceptions, there is a great deal of agreement between the chairman of the committee and the President of the Assembly. I conclude by referring to article 45 of the Constitution. In no case does the fact that an amendment is related, even indirectly, to the text be assessed according to the title of the text. The Constitutional Council has been very clear in its jurisprudence: it is the articles and their content that matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u280	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u281	In this case, it is not on the basis of its link with the democratisation of sport that an amendment can be considered admissible or not. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all been very clear and I will not fail to inform the President of your points of order, but I am sure that the services will decide each time on admissibility, following an investigation conducted on the basis of a very strict framework and reasoning, based on texts such as the one I mentioned earlier on Mr Bournazel's amendment. With these clarifications, I propose that we come to the discussion of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u282	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u283	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u284	"I'm in a situation of obesity. Before the closing of the sports halls, I went five times a week, I was in good shape and I was starting to regain control of my life, I was even returning to a normal weight. Today, I'm like before: I've regained weight, I'm sad. I become the shadow of myself again." This testimony of Maxime, resident of Pas-de-Calais, allows us to grasp all the paradox that there is to examine this text while sport has gone through a black year, victim of a confinement that goes as far as absurd. Why ban outdoor sport after 18 hours? Why these restrictions on children's sport?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u285	It's completely out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u286	We know what the cost of public health will be. For the past year, 20% of the 18-30 year-olds have completely stopped playing sports, and young people do not reach the 60 minutes of daily physical activity recommended by WHO. We already have a war to wage to untie our kids, when we have them, screens; Now it has become almost impossible for them to play sports. In our amendments, we asked that in the event of a health crisis, restrictions should not apply to the sport of children and that the number of people gathered for outdoor sport should not be limited to six. Beyond the proposed legislation, the minimum for us is to obtain very quickly the lifting of restrictions on individual outdoor sport after eighteen hours. A lady wrote to tell me that at lunchtime, before, she was racing and that, now, she has to go shopping, because she cannot take care of it after eighteen hours. This is an urgent problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u287	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u288	Mr President, I raised my hand to speak during the points of order, but since I am small, you may not have seen me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u289	It doesn't have anything to do with size.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u290	I am pleased that the minister is here with us. I would have liked to have referred to my e-sport amendments before him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u291	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u292	We're talking about Article 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u293	They too, I deeply regret, have been declared inadmissible, while this practice, of which our colleague Denis Masséglia is a connoisseur, is not to be neglected, especially as it contributes to the influence of French culture. It seems to me important to live with our time and to include e-sport in our reflections on the democratization of sport. It is a pity that we cannot supervise him because a whole part of our youth, exposed to dropping out of school, devotes hours every day to training by making sacrifices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u294	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u295	I'm still going to talk about Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u296	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u297	This bill opens up on a subject dear to many of us and which we have been putting forward for a long time: healthy sport, especially primary prevention. Article 1 poses a strong act, based on the conviction that we all share that physical and sporting activity must be accessible to all our fellow citizens, the youngest as well as our elders, Sunday athletes as well as licensees, urban and rural alike. The work in committee has enabled us to strengthen the role of sport in social and medico-social institutions, by ensuring that our elderly citizens who are dependent or with disabilities receive comprehensive and adapted information on the sports offer to which they have access. In a few minutes, on behalf of the La République Group, I will propose that this mechanism be strengthened in order to make it even more operational through the designation of a sports focal point within those institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u298	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u299	Clearly, the conditions for the examination of the text – sausageed in three stages – do not satisfy anyone, nor does the inadmissibility of many amendments. However, facilitating access to sport and developing its practices for as many people as possible is an objective that all the political groups in this House can only share. This is all the more true in this period of pandemic: sports halls are still closed, games are held behind closed doors and – most worryingly – there is a significant decrease in sports practices, especially among young people. While the President of the Republic has announced a major law on sport, we will be examining, in an accelerated procedure, a bill that does not wish to upset anyone. Of course, the three rapporteurs wet the jersey, but it is no less than a bill of display, which the majority needed before the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 in Paris. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. François Cormier-Bouligeon also applauds]] Article 1 legitimizes the practice of physical and sporting activities in social and medico-social institutions, which I welcome. It also gives me the opportunity to refer to health sport by prescription, in response to the question I asked on the subject in committee. Since 2012, sports sessions can be prescribed when you suffer from a chronic disease, especially in Strasbourg, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. This device might seem to be out of step with reality, but it has rather proved its worth. It has just been extended to people with long covids. Considered cured, they are weakened by persistent fatigue or respiratory discomfort, psychologically difficult to accept. The healthy sport program gives them relaxation, balance or muscle building exercises: they regain a taste for life. All we need to do is to ensure that health sports on prescription are emulated throughout France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u300	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-17-O1200.u301	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the bill to democratize sport in France. The meeting is adjourned.
