ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the management of the health crisis (No 4386, 4389). Contrary to the erroneous information that is circulating, the National Assembly will be exemplary in the face of the pandemic crisis, as it has always been, and will therefore apply the law that you will vote for. It goes without saying, but it goes better by saying it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u3	As we begin to consider a bill that is decisive in the fight against the epidemic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u4	You say that every week!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u5	... I would like, before the representatives of the nation, to pay tribute to the courage of our fellow citizens, their civicism and their sense of general interest. In front of the glass half empty, in front of the trains that arrive late, there is a country that holds good,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u6	Despite your incompetence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u7	... there are men and women who certainly question, cast reasonable doubts, sometimes legitimate criticisms, but who, every day, allow France to resist and move forward. This majority of French people do not recognize themselves in the indecency that has become common by the game of social networks. It does not recognize itself in the defiance established in the principle of life. It has neither true suspicion nor false lucidity. It does not call and practice outrage as some practice prose. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds]] And since today we are adding a subject to the already long list of those, explosives, that we must not discuss at family meals, I would like to say to this majority of French people that, when they are confronted with an uncle – or aunt – boasting the merits of Ayurvedic medicine or dandelion soup to protect themselves from the virus, they will have my full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u8	That's not how we get together!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u9	That's not what we expect from a health minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u10	Sheep are not the ones we believe. History already holds that a year and a half ago, some perfectly free and independent minds lost their way on the wrong side of the flu. Since I am talking about history, I will not go back here to the scandalous, if not shameful, comparisons that have been made in recent days. From juvenile indignation to ignominy, there is only one step that some pass without shame. But I would like to acknowledge the spirit of responsibility shown by the vast majority of parliamentarians, beyond their sensitivities, for whom I know how much they are solicited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u11	Are you trying to gather?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u12	And I know that many of them share our goal of achieving the long-awaited collective immunity. In the debates, there will be talk of freedom and what individual freedom is in the face of the demands of the common good, the public interest and public health. What is the point of making vaccination compulsory and extending the application of the health pass? It's my life that's at stake, so it's my choice to protect me or not! What is the point of taxation, since, after all, paying taxes could be a matter of personal choice and good will for everyone? What's the point of road code and road safety since, after all, the wrong driver is never the one talking to you? What good is public health, since, after all, smoking in the restaurant while enjoying a good digestive is still, for those who remember it, a very valuable moment? Freedom, however, is not to evade taxes, to drive counter-sense on the highway, to smoke at the restaurant, or to refuse a vaccine that protects me as much as it protects others. Freedom is to accept the rules without which the life of the group is sometimes threatened, sometimes made impossible. Obedience to the law that has been prescribed is for me – for you too, I imagine – an old memory of a senior class – that of Rousseau, of course. It is not for anything else that we are gathered today: for the freedom to return to a stable and serene social life; for the freedom not to see saturated resuscitation services; for the freedom not to allow vulnerable people to suffer from the virus; for the freedom of those who are no longer completely free when they develop a serious form of disease. The history of vaccination is inextricably linked with vehement protests and social movements which, guided by religious, political or spiritualist motives, have tried to obstruct what remains one of the great advances in the history of medicine and one of the most beautiful works of French genius. The National League for the Freedom of Immunization was established in 1950 following the decision to make BCG TB vaccine compulsory. Long before, in 1902, the government had decided to make injection against smallpox compulsory, which led to a very large movement of distrust. We could go back to the very birth of inoculation, the ancestor of vaccination: at the very end of the 18th century, numerous oppositions made themselves known to a practice that was of relevance to some of the magic and did not respect, for others, divine providence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u13	You didn't mention Pastor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u14	When the authorities moved from incitement to a form of coercion, all vaccination campaigns led to more or less intense social reactions. To stop is to give up, and that is not an option. We must convince, fight against fear and mobilize the tangible and reasonable arguments of science; It's our job today. The situation we are experiencing is a matter of concern. It worries us all, of course, even if we are not disarmed to confront it. The delta variant circulates more actively and its incidence rate has more than doubled in one week, leading in particular to an increase in hospitalizations: nearly 1,400 new patients have entered the hospital in the last seven days – 37 per cent more than the previous week – and 253 in critical care – 34 per cent more. All models are consistent: whether they are carried out by the Institut Pasteur, the INSERM (Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale), the CNRS (Centre national de la recherche scientifique) or the ECDC (Centre européen de prévention et de contrôle des maladies), they predict an epidemic peak at the end of the summer, which would potentially have a strong impact on the hospital system if nothing was done by then. [[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] So I urge you, let us not let ourselves fall asleep by the return of the good days, because the virus does not take a vacation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u15	So what's the sanitary pass for?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u16	To rule is to foresee!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u17	There is every indication that we have taken a lead on the worst-case scenario. I heard yesterday from parliamentarians who, in good faith, wanted to shift the extension of the health pass at the end of September and wondered if we were reading the same curves. History always repeats itself: the first time as a tragedy and the second as a farce – you know Marx's formula.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u18	Provocative!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u19	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Except here, farce doesn't make anyone laugh and we have all the tools at our disposal to avoid it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u20	A little calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u21	Do not use them would be to lower the guard, to leave field and room for manoeuvre to a delta variant almost twice as contagious as the original strain and which is also transmitted more rapidly, especially to the younger and less vaccinated populations. Today we can control the spread of the virus and create collective immunity: through systematized screening tests, which allow us to target those who are likely to circulate the virus and isolate them during the period of contagion; Most importantly, vaccination, which remains the safest way to combat covid-19, especially its most serious forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u22	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u23	You took the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u24	The vaccine reduces the risk of contracting the virus – including the delta variant – and transmitting it. It is, I must remind you, free and therefore accessible to the whole population. The figures are there, they are not misleading: in France, 96% of people who have developed a symptomatic form of the virus were not vaccinated. Let us think for a moment about the generations that have preceded us and remember that vaccination is a tremendous advance in science, a tool that has allowed entire generations to no longer be cut off by epidemics. I am thinking of the serious and childhood diseases that we have the luxury of no longer knowing – or so little – under our latitudes: measles, pertussis, diphtheria, rubella, poliomyelitis that caused irreversible paralysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u25	There was a small delay between discovery and compulsory vaccination...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u26	This is for history. But if we do a little geography and look at some countries, sometimes close like Tunisia, the terrible images of people suffering from the lack of oxygen in health facilities argue for vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u27	It's not with examples like this that you'll convince!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u28	We are opposed to a lack of hindrance to vaccination technology. However, messenger RNA technology has been developed since the 1960s, and it has allowed vaccine development for 20 years. Of course, covid vaccines are a little over a year old, but contraindications are extremely limited, known and identified; the benefit-risk balance is obviously in favour of vaccination. For all these reasons, the Government cannot resolve to see that almost 40 per cent of healthcare professionals, on the front line of crisis management – whom we thank once again from the bottom of their hearts for their decisive action for more than 18 months – have not yet been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u30	I hear fears, I respect doubts of course, but I cannot tolerate that a caregiver in direct contact with vulnerable people will not be vaccinated. Caregivers are less often vaccinated than the general population! One of the main measures of the bill is, therefore, precisely the vaccination obligation imposed on caregivers and staff working in a health facility. It will apply from 15 September to allow the professionals concerned time to comply with it. Like all employees, they will be able to obtain leave to be vaccinated, without this having any effect on their remuneration. The control of the vaccination obligation will be the responsibility of the employers. As you will understand, by this measure we wish to accelerate the vaccination of caregivers placed on the front line in the management of the health crisis. However, the effort must not only be made by caregivers, but by all French people. This is the whole purpose of the extension of the health pass, whose modalities, of course, remain to be debated, but whose spirit is as follows: no exception, no exacerbated individualism. We must show solidarity in order to achieve collective immunity, the only solution to get rid of the virus permanently. With this bill, the Government again presents you with exceptional measures, but these are justified by a situation that threatens to become quickly critical. We assume this message of firmness and clarity that must make us able to live as normally as possible with covid. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LR and SOC groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] And if I wished in the preamble to pay tribute to the courage and civicism of our fellow citizens, I would like to conclude by sending a special message to the young people, who have shown a great deal of courage and self-denial for a year and a half and who are being vaccinated massively. It was said that this youth was selfish, nonchalant; On the contrary, it shows solidarity and commitment. Young people prove by example that there is no age to be a responsible citizen and recall that spoiled children are not the ones we believe. They understood that vaccination was a chance and a right, but also a duty and a responsibility, because everyone must participate in the common strength of society when it is threatened. To obey the law we have prescribed ourselves, we must still prescribe it – we are not here for anything else.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u31	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u32	The Socialist and related group has never been part of a will to obstruct. If we make this point of order, it is because we are really exasperated by the way the work on this text is going on. The minister is certainly not involved: he was present throughout the debate in committee, as was the chair of the Law Commission. We were there too, but at three o'clock in the morning, while there were still 300 amendments to be considered, it became clear to us that it was not possible to continue this way. This text, much expected but controversial, involves public freedoms. It raises many concerns. Our role, as parliamentarians, was therefore to make our observations known and, through constructive work, to explain to the French, in a clear and calm manner, the objective we are pursuing. However, the way in which the work was conducted yesterday made us miss a unique opportunity to do this pedagogy work. We regret it. [[Applause on the SOC and LR benches and on some of the GDR benches]] We are also very concerned about the consideration of the text in open session. We have to deal with almost 1200 amendments, against 643 in the Committee on Laws. How will we proceed, if we do not just make figuration but do a real work of substance? I repeat, none of the amendments we have tabled are aimed at obstruction; In a particular situation, they must provide new insights into the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u33	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u34	It is based on Rule 99 on the deadline for tabling amendments; It therefore concerns the organisation of the debates. Together with my colleague Caroline Fiat, we have been watching until 5.10 a.m. to defend our amendments. I let you imagine the quality of the debate at these late hours! This is evidenced by the fact that after an intervention that exceeded my time by only ten seconds, the minister accused me of a "unceasing monologue." If we want to have a high-quality debate, which consists of intense exchanges, we cannot sit under the conditions of the examination in committee, which was more like a masquerade. About four o'clock, the minister himself had a bug. (Sighs.) He has scientifically explained to us – as he knows – that by virtue of a physiological law, at that time, the brain is extinguished...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u35	Mr. Bernalicis, come to the point! Do not narrate anecdotes unrelated to an article of the regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u36	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I'm coming to the point! This is not an anecdote: when, at four o'clock, we vote on amendments which will have consequences for millions of French people, the quality of the debate is at stake! I'm not doing a digression. As you know, Mr President, you who have been a member of Parliament for a long time: we do not examine a text in the same way between three and six hours as we do when we work on normal working hours. According to the majority, the goal is to finish the bill at midnight. This is obviously impossible. If, as the Rules of Procedure provide, everyone defends his or her amendments for two minutes without anyone taking the floor again, we will not have finished tomorrow at twenty-one hours, even if we sit without respite, including the night. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am not sure that such a debate meets the expectations of the French or that it meets the democratic demands of a period of crisis such as that which we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u37	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u38	Philippe Gosselin, speaker of the group Les Républicains, is absent. Nevertheless, for having attended the debates in committee until 5.10 p.m. this morning, I would like to associate myself with the previous remarks concerning the conditions for the examination of the text. The amendments are intended to provide clarification or enlightenment. The text was posted on Monday evening; the amendments had to be tabled quickly for consideration in committee, which began yesterday afternoon; we sat twelve hours, until five ten hours; we resume our work in the meeting at fifteen o'clock... The amendments discussed in committee, however, were not part of an obstruction strategy – on the contrary, they gave rise to real exchanges. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The conditions for this debate therefore give rise to a great deal of dissatisfaction and questioning about a bill that itself causes many concerns. There is a need for further reflection, as some aspects are not legally stabilized. I therefore express my group's dissatisfaction with our working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u39	Mr Dharréville has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u40	I will not repeat the observation that previous speakers have made perfectly clear. However, I want to make sure that the conditions under which we discussed yesterday in committee do not prefigure those of the forthcoming sitting. The debate should not become formal or the discussion of the text should be confined to its registration – a real discussion in Parliament is necessary. We know how unbalanced institutions are. Despite the conditions under which this text has arrived on the Bureau of the Assembly, we must debate it, because the debate is already taking place in the country: we have a duty to live up to those we represent. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] What's the plan? How do we organize for the debate to take place in good conditions? We will not be able to respect the programme established by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u41	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u42	Since the beginning of 2020, France and the world have faced a virus that continues to surprise, mutate and kill. Over the past 18 months, caregivers have been constantly mobilized, the French show remarkable resilience and solidarity, and the public authorities, whether state or local authorities, act and protect in an emergency, despite the uncertainty and unpredictability inherent in the covid -19 epidemic. Variants, in particular the delta variant, contribute to uncertainty and unpredictability; They perfectly illustrate the urgency we are facing. Many countries or regions of our neighbours are reintroducing binding measures: Australia is reconfiguring, Portugal is restoring a curfew and Catalonia is closing its discotheques. Health indicators are alarming: in the United States, the number of cases increased by 195% in two weeks, and on Monday, at the same time as the British celebrated the Freedom Day, there were more than 50,000 daily infections across the Channel. Our country is also experiencing a more than worrying acceleration in the circulation of the virus. Despite the success of the vaccination campaign and the momentum – which I welcome – that followed the President's announcements on 12 July, we have not reached the level of our British neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u43	It's your failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u44	We must therefore continue the effort in this direction – it is crucial. Of course, projections and prospects are not good. However, this time we have an effective, scientifically developed weapon to deal with the fourth wave: covid vaccines. All scientific studies – French, American, British, European – establish the effectiveness of available vaccines, including against new forms of the virus, especially the delta variant. Two numbers alone should convince us: a vaccinated person is 12 times less likely to catch the virus...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u45	Risks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u46	...and four times less to transmit it. Vaccinons, not for pleasure, but because it saves lives, because it protects, because it will avoid a new application of the most stringent health measures. In the face of the wave that is coming, there is an urgent need to act as long as there is still time. To wait would be to act too late, with all the health, social, human and economic consequences we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u47	It was necessary to speed up vaccination, instead of talking about happy days!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u48	Let us therefore act, and for this use our best tool, the most powerful weapon: vaccination. Adjusting the health tools available to us to maximize the effectiveness of the collective fight against the disease and to adapt the constraints it imposes on the population: this is the ambition of this bill, which originally had eleven articles and now includes fourteen. Article 1 adapts the tools for managing the health crisis in order to organize the response to the fourth wave. First, it aims to extend until 31 December 2021 the regime of management of the health crisis established by the law of 31 May 2021 and until 30 September the state of emergency declared on the territories of Réunion and Martinique. These mechanisms are adapted to the health situation: they allow for differentiated territorial management of the epidemic and their duration is fully proportionate. Secondly, the text provides for an extension of the scope of the health pass. This measure will feed into rich debates, as was the case during the committee review. I do not go into the details of the arrangements, nor of the welcome changes that the Government, following the advice of the Council of State, has made to the text: we will have time to go back to it. I strongly affirm that this extension is above all an indispensable health tool to improve the fight against covid-19. Even if the zero risk does not exist, the chances of contamination or transmission of the disease are significantly reduced when a person is vaccinated, re-introduced or has just conducted a negative screening test. The extension of the health pass is the appropriate tool to ensure health protection, which is an objective of constitutional value, while maintaining the activities that the measures taken to combat the health crisis have affected. I can't deny it, this device encourages vaccination. The first returns prove this: 2.6 million appointments for an injection were taken within three days after the address of the President of the Republic, on 12 July 2021. Nearly 880000 injections were made on 16 July alone. However, the measure cannot be equated with a vaccination obligation, mainly for two reasons. First, it will be possible to present the result of a virological screening test, including antigenic testing. However, the tests are easily accessible throughout the country. Secondly, the violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of unvaccinated persons, which I do not deny but which I consider to be measured and justified, will not prevent them from accessing basic or urgent public goods and services. Their refusal to be vaccinated – while vaccination is free, accessible and the relationship between health benefits and risks is largely favourable – will have the sole consequence of limiting their social interactions in the public sphere, which is known to promote the spread of the virus. In addition, we have changed the arrangements during the examination in committee. We have clarified the scope of the health pass – particularly with regard to access to shopping malls – in order to take into account local specificities and postponed its application to minors by one month. The Commission has also described as aggravating circumstances the violence committed against persons in charge of controlling the pass, in order to ensure that they are adequately protected in view of their leading role in the fight against covid-19. It also provided for a deterrent sanction against the proliferation of false documents. Finally, it decided that under the crisis management regime, a minor could be vaccinated with the agreement of a single parent. The bill also aims to strengthen isolation measures to contain the spread of the epidemic. Article 2 thus seeks to remove the geographical criterion which prevented a measure of isolation from a person already present in the national territory. Article 3 provides for the adaptation of the framework applicable to the information systems provided for by the Law of 11 May 2020, in order to enable the monitoring and monitoring of compliance with individual measures. Finally, section 4 tends to apply to any person diagnosed positive for the virus a measure of placement and retention in isolation. The Council of State has supervised and validated all these measures, which were necessary. On the proposal of the Dem and LaREM groups, we have also adopted an amendment aimed at maintaining the working income of people in isolation, in particular self-employed workers – this is now the subject of Article 4a. I turn to the second part of the bill. Let's say right away, to avoid misunderstandings: health and medical-social personnel, such as caregivers, firefighters and EHPAD staff, are already under a vaccination obligation against four diseases. Refusal to submit to it is subject to sanctions or even dismissal. The bill therefore consists in extending to a new highly contagious and dangerous disease the principle of an obligation that already exists. It is not a question of stigmatizing, but of protecting these professionals and the vulnerable people with whom they are in contact. Articles 5 to 8 and 10 contain the relevant provisions. It is perfectly coherent: its scope, well-targeted, is logical; the monitoring procedures are adapted – on my proposal, the committee has also simplified those for people in the liberal professions. As for the sanctions, they are the same as those already in place for the vaccination obligations in force – I stress this point. Article 9 provides for the authorisation of employees and public officials to be absent to attend a medical appointment related to vaccination against covid-19. It is very welcome because it is likely to promote vaccination policy. In line with the proposals of Philippe Vigier and the Dem Group, section 12 aims to consolidate Parliament's information mechanisms on the measures provided for in the bill. With Article 13, we are strengthening immunization awareness, education and communication. Thus, this ambitious bill provides us with the tools necessary to fight the epidemic as effectively as possible, which, unfortunately, is progressing as I speak. I therefore invite everyone to adopt it. It is true that we worked quickly...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u49	Too fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Long protests on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] ...and under difficult circumstances. However, you can take your time to examine it; The virus won't wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u51	This is outrageous! Amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u52	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u53	Why not use article 49, paragraph 3, while you are there?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u54	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u55	We are starting a race against the clock to beat a virus that is spreading at exponential speed; a variant which, day after day, contaminates more of our fellow citizens. Yesterday, the Minister of Health and the rapporteur presented to you in committee the figures that illustrate the situation. I shall therefore not elaborate on this point further. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] It is the health emergency that requires urgent consideration of this text. Yes, we have to go fast, but this requirement, and I know you will agree, does not exclude quality parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u56	What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u57	In my opinion, the parliamentary work we are doing is of good quality. I hear some Members in committee yesterday saying that we are not debating properly when we have only one minute of speaking time. But that is not the way things have happened, ladies and gentlemen: we debated for twelve and a half hours and took the time to hear no less than three ministers. The members of the Law Committee know that I leave enough time for the debate: it has never been a question of giving everyone one minute to express their views on difficult issues such as access to shopping malls, the application of the health pass to minors or the date of exit from the state of emergency. On all these themes, we have taken the necessary time, sometimes spending more than an hour discussing it. It is true that the number of amendments forced me to organise the debates strictly, but I sincerely believe that yesterday we did a good job together. In this regard, I would like to thank the parliamentarians present. However, this debate, which has been very high, has been taking place for a year and a half. This bill is indeed the ninth law on the state of health emergency. We have spent more than seventy hours discussing these issues in committee and almost a hundred hours in the House. We have thus been led to considerably increase Parliament's powers of control over the Government's actions: each of the laws we have adopted contained provisions calling on Parliament to justify acts taken under the state of emergency. Similarly, we have conducted numerous hearings and obtained many documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u58	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You massacred the work of the commission of inquiry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u59	Yesterday, we even adopted an amendment by our colleague Philippe Vigier, under which the National Assembly and the Senate will be able to request further information as part of the monitoring and evaluation of the measures contained in this bill, and which provides for the organization of debates in order to inform Parliament of developments in the health situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on a few benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Yes, we're debating! Yes, we control the action of the Government! Yes, we must go fast, because the health situation demands it and the protection of our compatriots imposes it! [[At that time, Mr. Alexis Corbière and Mr. Bertrand Sorre exchanged views]] However, the need for rapid deliberation does not exempt us from the essential substantive work of systematically verifying that the measures requested by the Government are proportionate and appropriate. We therefore wish to regulate the use of the sanitary pass and to reduce the number of establishments in which it may be required. I have defended, in my personal capacity, an amendment not to apply it to minors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must find our way back to reason. This requires us to take into account the doubts of our fellow citizens, your doubts, and to answer them: I hope that we will all be able to prove ourselves worthy of them today in the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u60	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor for a point of order. (The exchanges between Mr Corbière and Mr Sorre continue. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group.) I ask you not to question each other: if you want to talk to each other, get out!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] This reminder is based on Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the conditions for consideration of amendments in open session. Mr rapporteur, I cannot let you say that we should give up taking the time of the debate because of the speed with which the virus is spreading in France: it is irresponsible! Your role is to synthesize the position of the Government, which supports the bill, and the proposals of the deputies to improve it, not to force them to renounce their constitutional right of amendment – because that is what this is all about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u63	Who could imagine that such an important text would be the subject of only a few dozen amendments? No one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u64	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u65	And I say that while I support the provisions it contains. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR and SOC groups]] Just as it would have taken time for the committee to study the amendments submitted to it calmly, we must ensure that the 1000 amendments tabled in the public sitting are dealt with in good conditions. Yet we are supposed to complete our work at midnight! Mr President, I would ask you to convene the Conference of Presidents to change the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u66	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u67	Yesterday, in the Committee on Laws, I began my remarks by indicating the fierce will of the Socialist and related Members of Parliament to stand on the side of science, medical progress and the common good and, in view of the health situation, to be constructive. Naive, no doubt, I believed in your good faith, Minister, when you indicated that you were open to discussion, in the interest of the common good and the preservation of the health of our fellow citizens. But today, ladies and gentlemen, the account is not there, and I am angry at the lack of consideration shown by the executive towards national representation and towards the French and French. The manifestation of this contempt that you have used to us for four years now may have had to shower my naivety. What do you want, I sincerely believed that, in the face of the imminent fourth wave and the repeated lack of anticipation demonstrated by the Government, our efforts could converge, in order to serve the common interest beyond possible partisan divisions. It is probably this naivety that leads me to speak before you today. But to our dismay, a very important debate for the future of our country and the health of our fellow citizens did not take place in the calm and constructive way that we had desired. How can we not be offended, when the deadlines for consideration of this text are absolutely intolerable? This examination, which began only four days before the end of the special session of the Parliament, is taking place in deplorable conditions: the text was drawn up in haste and was informally communicated to us on Monday evening, at twenty-one and thirty minutes, at the exit of the Council of Ministers, but was only published at twenty-three hours and forty-eight minutes on the National Assembly site. The deadline for tabling amendments ran until 16.00 yesterday, one hour before the start of the examination of the text in committee. Such conditions are evidence of a disregard for the role of Parliament and the parliamentarians we are, ladies and gentlemen! How can we not be offended when the chairman of the Law Committee, who is supposed to be the guarantor of respect for our work, says that she sees no problem in having examined this text in just twelve hours? Madam President, considering a text of this nature, which has as much impact on our lives, between seven and five in the morning, after having had eight hours to read it, does not correspond to what I would call a respectful or constructive debate. Twelve hours of examination to include in the law restrictions of freedoms that are among the most important that we have ever known, of constitutionalist memory: it is upuesque! I'm outraged. And I weigh my words so I don't choke with rage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u68	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u69	There's a vaccine against rabies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u70	I do not, of course, deny urgency in the face of the new epidemic wave. But such an emergency is yours. It is due to your sudden reactions, to your permanent delay, especially on vaccine issues. It is due to the procrastination of the President of the Republic, whose summary of statements should allow you to understand the distrust felt by the French against you! In October 2020, Emmanuel Macron clearly treated people as liars saying that we would have a vaccine in March or April 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u71	It's the Macron vaccine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u72	Perhaps he did not know that, for several months, all the world's major powers – apart from France – had been launched into an unbridled race for vaccines, and that never so much budget had been spent on research and development, especially for a vaccine. While we had difficulty investing EUR 15 million, the United States put more than EUR 3 billion on the table. At the end of December 2020, Emmanuel Macron declared that the vaccine would never be mandatory. At the end of April 2021, he told us that the sanitary pass would never serve to differentiate the French, and that its presentation cannot be obligatory for access to everyday places of life such as restaurants, theatres and cinemas, or to go to friends. Finally, he proposed to the French a health pass with checks and penalties, without laying down clear rules on vaccination. It is this hypocrisy that we denounce. One thing is certain: one does not rule a country with "at the same time", leaving each one free to interpret things as he wishes, thus giving him to the arbitrary. In the face of such procrastination, how do you want the French to trust the public authorities? How do you want to give confidence in vaccination when a President of the Republic himself indicates that it is not necessary to make it compulsory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u73	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u74	The response to this health crisis lies in scientific, medical and technological progress. That answer is the vaccine. Every epidemic, every fatal disease, every time it was possible to develop a vaccine, it saved lives. That is why Socialist Members of Parliament and Senators are in favour of compulsory vaccination against covid-19 for all French citizens. It is compulsory vaccination that will allow us to achieve collective immunity, set at 90% vaccination coverage. It is compulsory vaccination that will allow us to bridge the growing inequalities of vaccination between the French. In this respect, the observation is clear: the most exposed are the least vaccinated, and the least vaccinated are the most fragile, the most precarious, the most disadvantaged socio-occupational categories. In short, the inequalities in immunization are linked to social inequalities in health, which is unacceptable! A very concrete example: the more than 75 years old in the 1st and 3rd arrondissements of Marseilles are less vaccinated than the inhabitants of Neuilly-sur-Seine aged 20 to 39! You are about to punish the French who are not vaccinated, while we have only 5.4 million doses in stock as of 18 July. Yesterday, we asked you several times, Minister, about the reasons for the cancellation, by order, by a number of RSAs – regional health agencies – of vaccination appointments. We also asked you yesterday, on several occasions, about the availability of doses and the planned deliveries, which, according to our calculations, do not cover the vaccination needs of the population before the sanitary pass becomes effective. Perhaps the public data we have available for these calculations have not been updated yesterday, after the Prime Minister's reply, questioned on this point by the president of our group Valérie Rabault? Maybe I'm definitely very naive... Is the introduction of the health pass, instead of compulsory vaccination, the way to clear you from the lack of vaccine doses currently available to the French? Similarly, it is totally inconsistent to want, as you introduce the health pass, to put an end to certain, yet essential, barrier actions. The INSERM hammers it: the wearing of the mask in closed places is one of the most effective measures against the spread of the virus. Indeed, if we do not wear the mask in a closed place, we are, even vaccinated, likely to contaminate people who are not. How to explain to employees working in an office, in an open space for example, that they can work all day in close proximity to their colleagues, but that they cannot, without a valid sanitary pass, go for a drink with them at the coffee shop or restaurant after their working day? That is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u75	At the office, we're wearing a mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u76	The health pass is not a return to freedom. It is a punishment, through the control of one another – which is not empowered in fact, which constitutes another incredible violation of our rule of law. What model of society do you want to look at? Do you want to go towards a model of widespread mistrust among fellow citizens, towards a society where everyone can control the vaccination of everyone, a society where positive people undergo compulsory isolation? The Prime Minister made it clear this morning that 96% of the positive people yesterday were not vaccinated. I regret that, in the absence of vaccine anticipation, our coverage rate does not allow us to address this month more calmly. I regret that, in the absence of vaccine anticipation, you are seriously considering the measures of discrimination and restriction of freedoms involved in the health pass. On this issue, as we have said and say again, we will refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. [["Nothing! » on the benches of the LR group]] I regret that, despite our questions, we have no visibility of the conditions under which the school and university start-up will take place. We're tired of our children and young people being the victims of your approximations! What do you have in mind for schools? What have you planned for our students, apart from the unwelcome removal of the 1 euro meal? I ask you solemnly: anticipate! Anticipate the return to school, make the vaccination compulsory, gradually, according to the recommendations of the High Health Authority: convince, inform, go towards. Trust everyone to be responsible, and thus create the conditions for collective immunity. Coercion, why not, but only in case of failure of conviction. Without real and serious work of conviction, there is no possible sanction; Or it's only one way to clear your customs and make your responsibilities go away. Let us try not to waste the short time that remains before this new wave that is already beginning. Strong measures are needed, far from the health pass you are proposing, far from the redundancies and isolation contained in your bill. Not a word, moreover, in your speeches, in your statements, in your political intentions, on the global fight against this epidemic. However, we cannot win this battle alone. As long as people are infected around the world, variants continue to advance and expose us collectively, as their appearance is correlated with the spread of the virus in the world population. France must respond positively to India's and South Africa's requests, among other things, to lift patents on vaccines so as to allow access to vaccines on a global scale. Beyond our country's solidarity tradition, treating vaccines as global commons is our health and social responsibility. When 44% of the European population received two doses of vaccines, compared with 1.5% of the African population, what is the meaning of a national battle lost in advance as a result of variations and flows of people? That is the meaning of this motion. We are in favour of debate and co-construction, but that is not your attitude, which we regret. [[Applause on the SOC benches as well as on several GDR benches]] We Socialists and related parties refuse to be responsible for your delay, and we oppose the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u77	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u78	Before the presentation to the Council of Ministers of the text you are considering today, the Prime Minister took care to consult all political groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u80	He asked them to decide on three issues: compulsory vaccination of caregivers, extension of the health pass, isolation of positive cases in the event of an epidemic rebound. During this consultation, the Socialists did not reject our proposals as a whole; I am therefore surprised at the tabling of this motion. You want a total rejection by Parliament of the health pass, the compulsory vaccination of caregivers, the forced isolation of positive cases!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u81	Yes! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u82	You had to prepare better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u83	If the House, in its independence, decides to follow you, you could leave for the summer, since I believe that Parliament is forced to stop its work; But we would not have the means to put in place the health pass, the compulsory vaccination of caregivers, nor to strengthen the tools to combat the epidemic – not to mention the measures to leave the state of emergency, which must be extended beyond 30 September. So you are asking Parliament to prevent us from fighting the epidemic with the means at our disposal. Now, Madam Member, while you were defending your motion, I received the figures from Santé publique France; I give them to you, because they say the gravity of the situation: 21,000 French have been contaminated by the covid in the last twenty-four hours; Several hundred fragile people have been hospitalized, and tensions are emerging, including in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u84	It would have been a lot faster to vaccinate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As I said in introducing the bill, in the face of individualism, we make the choice of collective responsibility. That is the effort we are asking the French. They are, I believe, in a position to ask each other: in the face of individualism, let us make the choice of collective responsibility by going to the end of the examination of this text. Give us the tools to protect the French! If the motion is adopted, there are only two solutions: to let the epidemic run without management measures, without the possibility of closing, without new protection measures, without the possibility of increasing vaccination, the only tool to get rid of the virus...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u86	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u87	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ...or impose a new confinement. Tell me, Madam Member, which of the two branches of the alternative you prefer, if we do not have the opportunity to consider another bill in a timely manner!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u88	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u89	In explanation of vote, Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u90	Why do we refuse your medical pass? Because he has nothing to do with health, because this authoritarian passing testifies to your failure. One of the latest opinions of the Scientific Council is the following: in France, only 79% of the elderly are vaccinated, compared with 100% in Denmark, 100% in Norway, 100% in Portugal, 100% in Spain and 100% in Iceland. According to this table, we are the last country in Western Europe for vaccination of the most at risk, the fifteenth of the European Union. What do scientists recommend today? Targeting, looking for older people, chronically ill people, obese people, all those who risk serious forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u91	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LR and SOC groups]] But this would require a care policy; Medical practitioners, mobile teams and local elected officials should be mobilized. It would take more than an application, a vaccine and a com'! It would take something other than a monarch who, from his palace of the Elysée, gives orders to his subjects, and in ten minutes on TV returns on his promises of the day before – "Vaccination will never be compulsory", "The sanitary pass will not apply to daily acts"... [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] As a result, since you're not going to look for the most at risk, as the meter remains blocked at 80% for those over 80, instead, you water even children, even teenagers, who have no interest in getting vaccinated. Instead, you set up a new social contract: everyone flicks everyone, everywhere, in restaurants, cafes, shopping malls, cine... Instead, you restrict freedoms. Instead, you're tearing the nation apart. Instead, you make vaccine, which is an interesting tool, a miracle remedy; and you lie again, preparing many disappointments, many disillusionments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Your authoritarian pass is a dead end, which hides your void. For the last year, you've had no care policy. For the last year, have you raised the dike of hospitals? No! For the last year, have you installed aerators everywhere? No! For the last year, have you had any strategy? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u93	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u94	Like all epidemics, covid has a strong social dimension: the risk of being exposed to the virus, the risks depending on the initial state of health, the consequences of the epidemic on living conditions are not the same according to the place of residence, according to the housing, according to the financial situation, according to the employment occupied. These social inequalities prevail in every health territory; They have consequences in particular in terms of prevention and cessation of care. Immunization, including out of crisis, does not escape. These social issues are crucial to the cessation of care. I say that because we consider that the ideological resistances associated with the vaccine are minority, but that you refuse to look at this social reality. In addition, there are territorial inequalities: medical deserts are the true forgotten territories of the Republic. As for school medicine, it is in carafe, while studies say that it should be mobilized, including to deploy positive communication towards families and children. Don't make us go back to the responsible majority in the face of irresponsible opposition! Do not continue to stigmatize opposition in a caricatural manner. Our proposals are concrete: to mobilize the CPAM to make appointments with each Frenchman who has not yet access to a vaccine next to his home; prepare, with the educational community, with the departments, with the mayors, who are at the bedside of the families, the mobilization of school medicine; to favour democracy, in particular health democracy, by refusing the authoritarianism in which you are immersed. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Lamia El Aaraje and Mrs Mathilde Panot also applaud]] We will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u95	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u96	The La République group on the move will vote against this motion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, this motion is surprising in many respects, as we face what is in a certain way a new epidemic, particularly serious, which affects an ever greater number of our fellow citizens and which poses real risks to our hospital system. You say that you agree with this, but at a time when our citizens are worried and expect strong and rapid decisions from us to curb the epidemic and accelerate vaccination – just to keep on living – you are focused on your opposition to the President of the Republic, the majority, to our action. This is demonstrated by the Minister when he reveals that you have not come to the consultation with the proposal, for example, the vaccination obligation. It seemed like something had to be found at all costs to oppose! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You also deny the urgency of the action. The minister also said that contamination increased by 150% in a week. It won't stop there. There is therefore an urgent need, and the measures contained in this bill will bring solutions to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u97	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u98	The Republican Group believes that the situation is serious enough to prevent us from breaking up our country and breaking national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] To be a room driver to provoke inappropriate reactions here and there is not very worthy, Mr rapporteur, while the situation requires, on the contrary, that, beyond our sensitivities, we join forces. The chairman of the commission had tried to extinguish the fire; You blow on the still hot embers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u99	I spoke before her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u100	This is regrettable, and this could give rise to the desire, after listening to the arguments of our Socialist colleagues, to have an epidermal reaction and to vote for this motion of rejection. Yes, we are deliberating under conditions that are not honourable. We completed the examination in committee at 5:10 a.m.; We shall resume it in public at 15.00, with very limited deadlines for tabling amendments – which does not prevent the tabling of amendments, but you will not blame us for our right to parliamentary amendment! It would be a little strong coffee... To ask for twenty-four or forty-eight additional hours is not to play with the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u102	You refused, but we will return. All these arguments that we hear about vaccination, on the health pass... would, if we were serious, deserve serious consideration, so in a much more serious time frame. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] But we are aware of the urgency, and we are responsible people: we will therefore abstain, so that the debate will continue – and we will continue, on foot, defending all our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u103	On the motion of prior rejection, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the observations on the conditions under which parliamentary work took place. They've been difficult, that's right. We also understand the concerns expressed by our colleagues about the violation of individual freedoms in certain provisions of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] I am among those who have defended individual freedoms on many occasions in the Chamber. It is true, however, that restrictions will be imposed. But I do not understand this motion of rejection because we have no choice. There's an emergency. Like offenders, the virus runs faster than the gendarmes. So our reactions must be up to date. We must examine and vote on the provisions concerning the extension of the health pass, compulsory vaccination of carers and forced isolation. And we must do this by exercising our prerogatives in the control of the executive. It is precisely because this text contains considerable infringements of the exercise of our individual freedoms that amendments have been adopted at the initiative of the Dem Group to strengthen Parliament's control. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] While waiting perhaps for compulsory vaccination, we must stand together and, before determining whether vaccination is good for us, ask ourselves if it is not good for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u105	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group expressed reservations about several points of the text and, above all, about this way of legislating in an emergency. However, given the situation, we, as parliamentarians, must show responsibility. We therefore hope that the debate will continue. Let's try, as much as possible, to walk together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u107	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u108	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The French are afraid. They are afraid of a delta variant about which our colleague Boris Vallaud had already alerted you here at the end of June. We are now given 48 hours to act. Some French people are afraid of vaccines, others are afraid of losing their freedom, fear of the procrastination of a Government that now presents as an effective solution a health pass that it recently swore, however, never to introduce. We must dispel fears, rehabilitate scientific words and restore dialogue between the Government and national representation. You chose to act like these fears don't exist. You have chosen to confiscate the debate on a major subject. No, we have not done everything to facilitate access to vaccines, especially for the most modest. Yes, other choices were possible. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The sanitary pass is only one step before a very probable reconfinition. You do not believe in this solution, but you have fractured the country so much that the vaccination obligation is now impossible to apply. But you'll have to solve it eventually. For all these reasons, we will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u109	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u110	Colleagues, when we were elected in 2017, none of us imagined a crisis like the one we experienced and are still living.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u111	It's been a year and a half! This is proof of your incompetence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u112	None of us imagined that we would be obliged to take measures restricting freedom in a republic that cherishes it more than anything – that freedom represented by Pradier's statue on my left, while another, representing public order, faces it. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the face of this pandemic, we have only bad solutions on the table. There are three: the first is the health pass, that is to say, encouraging the maximum number of people to immunize themselves and others to test themselves massively, and isolating people tested positively to break the chains of contamination; the second is reconfinition, which would mean depriving everyone of almost all freedoms, moreover in the midst of a holiday; The third would be to let the virus run, to allow people to contaminate freely, but within a few weeks, we know, tens of thousands of people – perhaps hundreds of thousands – would then be hospitalized, sometimes in absolute urgency, as unfortunately happens in other countries. [[Applause on the banks of the Agir ens group, on several benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] We must therefore take our responsibilities and choose the worst solution, that is, the health pass. It needs to be discussed, and that is what the agenda provides for. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u113	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u114	The worst service we would do to our fellow citizens would be to leave the debate in the Chamber to be caricatured. On the one hand, there is not the virtuous, willing to support without further discussion the very harsh and restrictive measures of individual and collective freedoms contained in the bill – measures that I think are necessary at the outset – and on the other, those who question themselves, who are asking for time to debate them and to convince our fellow citizens of their merits. This is the fundamental issue: the way in which our debates will be held will depend on the ability of our citizens to understand and accept the proposed measures. This is indeed what our country has suffered since the beginning of the health crisis: the lack of membership and understanding. The reason for this is that too often the Government and the majority have locked themselves in a certainty: the certainty that these measures are inevitable, that they do not need to be debated and that the French will eventually accept them. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] However, this is not the way things are done: this is what our Socialist colleague reminded you when he put forward his motion for rejection. You must hear his arguments, whether they are the deplorable conditions in which this debate takes place or the territorial and social inequalities in access to vaccines. We will not vote on the motion to reject beforehand, we will abstain, but we ask that more time be devoted to the additional debate so that the French understand what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u115	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u116	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 273 Number of votes cast 232 Absolute majority 117 For adoption 48 Against 184
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u117	In the general debate, Mrs Mathilde Panot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u118	[["Ah! » on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Pontius Pilate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u119	A reference to the Bible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u120	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... seeing the tumult increased, took water, washed hands in the presence of the crowd and said, "I am innocent, it is your business." One cannot help but see a resemblance to the speech of the President of the Republic, who left last week to bless the passers-by in Lourdes, after giving lessons of secularism to the whole earth. Thus, Emmanuel Macron, seeing that the delta variant continued to spread, took water, washed his hands live on television and said: "I am innocent, everything is the fault of the unvaccinated people, it looks at them", before adding "live the Republic, live France! The monarch imagines Jupiter when he is only Pontius Pilate; Like him, he washes his hands. In ten days, the French will have to present a sanitary pass almost everywhere and all the time, so that, soon, you will have the choice between two doses of vaccine, a PCR test at 50 euros or 135 euros fine. Those who hesitate to be vaccinated, who are suspicious, those whose vaccination is incomplete will therefore be placed under house arrest and asked to leave those vaccinated quietly with each other. Better, some of them may even be dismissed due to lack of vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u121	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Emmanuel Macron splits the Republic in half, makes life impossible for a French class based on health data and washes his hands. Immunization coverage is the lowest for the most vulnerable, social inequalities in health dislodge our country, barely 35 per cent of young people have received two doses of vaccine. Yes, but the president washes his hands. The World Health Organization (WHO) tells us that we must convince rather than compel, but the President washes his hands. The president washes his hands, he thunders, stewardship will follow. Reality will bow to its words and above all to its contradictions – for the President speaks and denies himself, gives order and contradicts. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In December 2020, he stated that vaccination would not be compulsory until it was, in fact, mandatory. In April 2021, the health pass was never to be "a right of access that differentiates the French" – it became a right of access that differentiates them. The President lies and makes his most faithful lie by the way. For example, Minister Olivier Véran spoke of a "principle opposition to the use of a sanitary pass". Swallow the snake, Minister of Solidarity and Health, and have a good appetite! The president makes you liars and he washes his hands. Emmanuel Macron has illuminations on Monday morning, in the closed session of a defence counsel, which he entrusts to us in the evening on television. Since 2017, it is the Prince's fact: the French were drawn by lot to follow the vaccination policy have disappeared, Parliament is constantly crushed, and Emmanuel I decrees, prolongs the state of emergency health, even convenes us in extraordinary session. You should know, colleagues, that deciding alone is not a foreign matter to the absurdity of a decision or its brutality. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What do you mean, cafes and restaurants that just come out of the water will have to cheat our health papers at the risk of a fine and disregard our privacy? What is this mess you're organizing? I don't know. As absurd as imposing the sanitary pass to take a TGV or sit on a half-empty terrace, while not asking for anything when it comes to getting into a crowded RER or eating at the company canteen. Inconsequential as imposing compulsory vaccination on caregivers, threatening them unscrupulously to stop paying them, while dispensing the police. But no, you tell me, the police are not in contact with the population. When a policeman applies the technique of ventral plating, the citizen has his head against the ground, which limits the contamination by aerosols and thus the transmission of the virus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u123	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u124	Yes, the ventral plating is shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u125	That's the way it goes with the police!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u126	At this level of generalized absurdity, we would no longer be surprised at anything from you. Emmanuel Macron has talent, he turns everything he touches into a political crisis. After five years on freedom to undertake, winning liberalism, the new world and tralala, he is now engulfed in an unprecedented authoritarian forward flight. Welcome to the society of permanent control, the one where you sort the good of the bad citizens, in which our social relations are deeply upset, where we swear only by a QR code! Colleagues, the truth is that since the beginning of the epidemic, you have passed authoritarian measures on to health policies. With you, any opposition is demonized. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Caroline Fiat and Karine Lebon applaud]] Let's get along well: we're for vaccines. But there can be no health policy without confidence. How do you want the French to have confidence when you have so often lied to them, whether on stocks, masks, lack of means for caregivers or the health pass itself? [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Emmanuel Macron will be able to think of himself as Pontius Pilate for as long as he wants to say he is innocent, but one day he will have to answer for his actions. At the end of 2020, you announced €800 million in savings in the public hospital. It was you who continued the policy of closing beds, even in the midst of a pandemic. It was you who twice refused to lift the patents on the vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u128	You love to tell us that we don't offer anything. You would like that to be the case, but we have developed many bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u129	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Karine Lebon also applauds]] Colleagues, come back to reason and stop breaking the country. Basically, like us, you must have the intuition that these measures are crossing a threshold in the inacceptable. Freedom is the most precious thing we have: do not vote for measures that defigure it for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u131	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u132	Mathilde, Mr. Maillard said the ventral plating was shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u133	Attacking the police, though...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u134	He's right! It is shameful, as indeed the number of homeless people in Île-de-France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u135	Colleagues, please! Please get out of the Chamber if you want to talk to each other! If not, please let the speakers speak calmly! Mr Acquaviva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. The text that is now before Parliament is nothing but annoyance. Yes, covid-19 is a dangerous virus. Yes, the spread of the epidemic is unfortunately regaining momentum. Yes, we must take measures to match the situation. This can and must include vaccination of caregivers and workers in certain professions who are in contact with vulnerable people. However, many of us in the Libertés et Territoires Group believe that we must not overstep the limits of the right to life in society by restricting or conditioning people's access to certain places of life. Indeed, the delays, the approximations, the reversals we have experienced since March 2020 have increased the population's distrust. This doubt and distrust must be heard! If vaccination of the greatest number seems to be the best way to stop the pandemic and resume normal life, as far as the population as a whole is concerned, we will always prefer massive incitement, through a work of conviction, to the obligation. The search for acceptability and, more importantly, efficacy must guide us, in order to move forward as quickly as possible in the vaccination coverage of the population. Let us ask ourselves about the underlying reasons for the lack of confidence in vaccination, which is observed even among caregivers. Unfortunately, this issue has become too cleavage. We condemn death threats against elected officials, as do shameful amalgams with the Second World War and the Shoah. The Freedom and Territory Group fully supports all those who have been subjected to pressure and intimidation. In the face of this mistrust, the President of the Republic has chosen to make vaccination compulsory from 15 September for staff in contact with the public at risk. If this measure appears to be proportionate, the same is not true of the dismissal of employees who do not comply with this obligation. In our view, establishing a scale of sanctions would be preferable. Beyond the debate on the vaccination obligation of health professionals, we should have anticipated the attainment of a vaccination level and adapted the offer accordingly, by facilitating the making of appointments at the holiday places and adopting a logic of "go towards" regarding people who legitimately find it difficult to fit into the current vaccination path – I am thinking in particular of isolated people. To do this, we can rely on the network of community health professionals, treating physicians and pharmacists. On the other hand, there are some problems with the health pass provisions, even leading to the rejection of several members of our group. Established by the law of 31 May 2021, the sanitary pass is now necessary to access events for more than 1000 people. It also facilitates travel to and from Corsica – which we were asking for a year ago and which we supported – the overseas region and, since its harmonisation at European level, the other countries of the European Union. Thus, for a majority of Members of our group, it does not seem appropriate to extend the perimeter of the pass too much. Less than two months ago, the Government made it clear that the health pass would never apply to everyday life: today we are summoned to vote the opposite. Many of us are concerned about tensions with the professionals concerned, such as restaurants and hoteliers. And we are surprised at the passage of the last opinion of the Council of State, which seems to us to contradict in part its previous decisions. Let us remember that if the Council had decided not to suspend the health pass, it was because it was not required for acts of daily life. Another criticism is that the date of entry into force of the sanitary pass is too close. Setting it to September 1st seems preferable to us, so that people starting their vaccination schedule today can complete it without being forced to be tested every two days. Finally, the draft law provides for the extension until 31 December of the regime for exiting the state of health emergency. In view of the sufficient provisions contained in the ordinary law, which have been repeatedly referred to by our group, the indefinite extension of this state of emergency does not appear justified. In addition, we deplore the method that once again makes us legislate in the urgency – this has been said earlier. Suscising membership requires consultation, federation, gathering and persuading. Despite the reservations of the opposition groups and above all those of your own majority, which were widely expressed in committee yesterday, the measures contained in the Government's original text are almost as they are in the version we are considering today – we deeply regret it. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] You are, but we too, in the urgent need to stay on a peak path by guaranteeing both the protection of the population, the revival – just as essential for life in society – of economic, social and cultural activity, as well as respect for freedoms. We know that, by nature, this challenge is difficult to meet. Let us make it possible, for once thanks to parliamentary work, to walk together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u137	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u138	Once again, the President of the Republic has rendered his verdict and here we are gathered to record it. Thus goes the Fifth Republic, swept away by its original imbalance. One thing is certain, the delta variant is a serious danger. We must prevent it from causing a new disaster, from testing our inadequate hospital capacity and from hindering our daily lives. We therefore still need to act vigorously against the virus, in particular by giving a decisive new impetus to vaccination, both in France and around the world. Researchers have mobilized a great deal of accumulated knowledge; their vaccines have undergone clinical trials and obtained the validation of the health authorities. The vaccine is an essential tool to help us defeat the virus. Getting vaccinated is an act of individual and collective protection against infection in general and especially against its serious and prolonged forms. Without going back to the difficulties and failures of your crisis management, it was clear that the vaccination campaign would be slowing down. Thus, to act on the right levers, it would have been necessary to anticipate and identify the brakes encountered, especially since the recent resumption of appointments highlights the existing margin of progress. How can we ignore the context marked by a deep democratic crisis – the scope of public speech is diminished – and the distrust of an untransparent and increasingly financially funded pharmaceutical industry? Trust is not decreed and must be built by public and democratic guarantees. While it can only be based on a culture of perennial public health, the crisis has confirmed the decline in health promotion and prevention policies, which is not unrelated to the weakening of the means and tools of this sector or to the offensives to increase its commodification. We cannot save money from a powerful revival of the public health campaign for vaccination. This cannot be limited to mere communication mechanisms and calls for a much more offensive strategy, based on telephone calls, systematic mail and more than ten times access to free vaccination, in neighbourhoods, areas of activity, rural or isolated areas, or tourist places, in order to encourage the use of vaccination. To convince, it is also necessary to start this new phase of deployment in order to answer questions and doubts. Since the beginning of the crisis, we invite the Government to put its political approach around a strong axis: to empower society to mobilize, to enable women and men to be actors and actors in the struggle and to build solutions by combining the available forces. However, the prevailing mechanistic and descending logic of public policy, not without delays or inconsistencies, is not such as to create the best conditions for such an objective. Public health needs knowledge, conscience and trust. While we need membership and national cohesion, the provisions you make crystallize mistrust and cause cleavage in the country. We must denounce the serious and shocking amalgams, but also realize that these provisions give concrete effect to the division of society. Many caregivers felt targeted, identified as those responsible for the difficulties and set as examples for an act of authority. As social and health inequalities overlap, you are taking additional exclusion measures instead of building an inclusive approach to generalizing immunization. The health pass, now applied to the gestures of daily life, organizes the control of each other and violates the right to work by allowing dismissals for health reasons. This use of control, of coercion, of what can be experienced as a form of blackmail, triggers in the social relations the dynamics that worry us, for what they trace as social perspectives. These choices with contradictory effects do not play on the right springs and sign a renunciation to create trust and to build shared emancipation. Thus we call not to divide ourselves because of these measures, but to act against the virus and to fight firmly the anti-social projects announced, including that of demantivating the right to retirement from authority – it was certainly not necessary to come back to this issue a few days ago. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If we subscribe to the stated health objective, we do not adhere to the chosen means. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore oppose a bill that does not provide the right answers, which once again tends to extend the state of health emergency and which, moreover, leaves aside key issues, such as that of vaccination on a global scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u139	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u140	A few weeks ago, we split up after passing the bill on the management of the health crisis with particularly exciting prospects ahead: those of a controlled epidemic and a rapid return to normal life. Unfortunately, a new variant, called delta, has since gradually affected all countries. Six times more contaminant, it plunges us back into the reality of the health crisis. The moment we are living is therefore full of gravity. The dramatic increase in positive cases in recent days – more than 18,000 new infections have been recorded yesterday, which represents an increase of more than 150% in a week – makes us fear high levels of hospitalization in the coming weeks. It should be noted that 96% of the last 18,000 people infected were not vaccinated. In this context and with the setback we have accumulated over the past 18 months, which now includes vaccination, we have a duty to act responsibly and to take the necessary and proportionate measures to curb the spread of the epidemic, to protect the health of all our citizens, to ensure the continuation of the social, cultural, sporting and economic life of our country. Faced with the gravity of the health situation, the President of the Republic has announced, with courage and responsibility, several strong measures to respond to these challenges – measures that the working Republic group supports and will support. These devices are expected by our fellow citizens, who demand that we speed up the vaccination campaign, that we stop the spread of the virus, that we do not close shops and places of life again, that we do not introduce new periods of confinement or curfew. In addition, this noon, the Prime Minister announced the opening of an additional 5 million appointments to be vaccinated and the exclusion of schools from the scope of the health pass. Of course, these measures of real gravity, which are certainly proportionate to the health reality we are experiencing, may give rise to concerns and questions. We have to answer that: it is the sense of work that we are doing these days. These concerns and questions may also give rise to disputes, which will be agreed once they remain within the Republican framework. In this regard, I would like to express my group's indignation at certain behaviours or comments that we have been able to observe or hear in recent days. In particular, we condemn the attitude of those who put on the yellow star during demonstrations, which is a real insult to the memory of the victims of the Shoah. The yellow star is the symbol of a system that broke, that killed millions of our fellow citizens because they were Jews. This absolutely abject behaviour to signify its opposition to vaccination is a form of Holocaust denial. Such acts are not acceptable in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u142	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u143	I come to the content of the text. The Group of the European People's Party will adopt the extension of the regime for exiting the state of emergency until 31 December, as well as the various measures proposed here. These will be subject to stronger scrutiny by Parliament thanks to an amendment tabled by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. The health reality, which is quite different from the one we knew more than two months ago in the discussion of the previous bill on the health crisis, leads us to reconsider our position with regard to certain tools, including the health pass – I agree. We do not take these measures of cheerfulness of heart, we take them because they are the best way in our opinion to keep the places of culture and leisure open as well as the shops – the places of life, at the bottom – while continuing to encourage all our fellow citizens to get vaccinated as quickly as possible, vaccination being the only way in the long term to get out of this crisis and avoid any further confinement. The questions on the implementation of these measures are numerous and legitimate, and we ourselves defended in committee this night a number of amendments aimed at improving the arrangements. In particular, we have postponed the introduction of the health pass for minors until 30 September, which will give them more time to get vaccinated and will allow vaccination campaigns to be launched in secondary schools and high schools at the beginning of the school year to bear fruit. Access to essential shops, including food, will not be subject to the health pass. In order to protect the people of the institutions who will have to apply the health pass, and will therefore be responsible for verifying the identity of the persons, we have foreseen an increase in the penalties that will be incurred by those who might have violent behaviour during these operations: no violence will be tolerated! Finally, we asked the Government to make proposals by 1 September on the wage guarantees that we could provide to precarious workers who would be placed in isolation following a positive test at Covid-19. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We know that these measures are cumbersome. However, given the serious health situation in our country, they are proportionate and necessary. The period ahead of us requires new efforts, but I am sure that everyone will be committed to acting with responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u144	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u145	I said yesterday with others: we feel like we are living an endless day. Indeed, we meet month after month to discuss subjects which, without being totally identical, are of the same vein. Unfortunately, we are drawing up the same observations month after month. The pandemic progresses, and then we think that we will emerge from the crisis, then we come back, then we think that we will get out of it, and then we come back to it: here we are with a fourth wave that is undisputed and that no one wants to see progress, each hoping that the number of deaths will not increase. It is to tell you how much we all measure here, in all groups – I claim it for the Republicans – our responsibilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] However, we can't give you a white-seing. There's the shape, there's the bottom. On the shape, we continue to confuse speed and precipitation. Yes, of course we must act quickly, Mr rapporteur. It is not a question of lambiner to use a trivial term; However, it is also not a question of slaughtering, by concluding at 5.10 a.m. the examination of the amendments in committee, to resume the afternoon even in a public sitting with the order to debate until 10 a.m. tomorrow, if necessary, because the urgency would be such that it would be inconceivable to have another half-session. So what is this urgency that sweeps away the most basic democratic control? [[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] We are no longer, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government and of the majority, in March 2020, when faced with all the uncertainties, it was indeed necessary to do quickly and as best as possible. Today we have a little backwards and we can take the time for a peaceful democratic debate. For too long, however, you have tended to sit down on the rights of Parliament and national representation: we represent the people here! What can justify the fact that the examination of the amendments is transformed into such a slaughter, except that it is a desire not to change anything in the government text? The door's been locked from the beginning. Still, it's unfortunate. This is all the more so since, in substance, we are very much in favour of vaccination and progress; We are obviously on the side of those who want to fight this disease. One of the few effective means available to us in this fight is vaccination. Let us leave aside the antivax and the conspirators, unfortunately we cannot much for them because they are stuck in their network, which is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u147	We are at your side, but we also ask questions: why vaccinate all minors? Why organize vaccination in such a way and not in such a way? Why do you want to do this or that? We have played our part in calling on you, in particular through amendments which unfortunately received no response. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR and FI groups]] We are also at your side on the sanitary pass; restrictions can be designed for a limited period of time. But not just any one! You want to submit daily activities – take the train, sit on the terrace of a café in which you often buy your newspaper, go to a shopping centre – to the presentation of a sanitary pass: we are very far from what was done so far. So if you want us to accompany you intelligently, we must anticipate and not develop the controls to such an extent that we were tilting into a society of distrust. It is the trust of our fellow citizens that we must win! We must not oppose our compatriots to each other, nor should we make restorers of the police or gendarmes carrying another livery. We must take the daily activities away from the sanitary pass because we do not want a two-speed France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We may find ourselves – we will see what happens to our amendments – but count on us to be at the meeting of the democratic debate and the demand that our fellow citizens have for Parliament. This may not be the case, but I would like to open a singular parenthesis in our debates that may affect you. It may not be known enough that the Assembly is a beautiful common house, populated by encounters and figures and inhabited on a large part of humanity. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, beyond our differences of political sensitivity. I would like to share my sorrow here, now, in the gallery. It's probably unusual and incongruous, but it won't be inappropriate. Brigitte Ferrat died a few hours ago. More than a collab, as we say in our jargon, she was my friend. She was a remarkable, professional, maternal and caring press attaché. It was the fifth pillar of the "four cols", this famous room of the four columns where the journalists liked it. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of all groups stand up and applaud at length]] I take this opportunity to pay tribute, no doubt on your behalf, to all those who, often in the shadows, work alongside us and know everything about us – our ardour, our passions, our disappointments, our mouths, our moments of stress – because we spend some days more with them than with members of our own family. When I think of Brigitte, I thank all our collaborators, without whom we would often be deprived.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u148	You will have understood, dear colleague, that the whole of this House associates itself with the very fair and strong words that you have kindly spoken. Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u149	[[Applause on various benches]] Allow me, dear Philippe Gosselin, to present to you, in the emotion that your words have just aroused, all the condolences of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. Like you, we know what the people who come with us and who are present with us every day represent. We are currently on a ridge line. The health situation worsens as never before and we are again caught in a race against the clock. The challenge of the bill is twofold: we need to prevent and anticipate in order to fight more effectively against the spread of the virus and, at the same time, to confront another scourge, that of misinformation and the lie shortcut. We must be on all fronts to speed up vaccination, but we must always better inform and reassure our fellow citizens by delivering them all the elements they need to make an informed decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u150	That's the role of the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u151	Transparency and readability create trust and membership, so that's what we need to fight and work on. The Dem Group welcomes the adoption by the Committee of its amendment to request the Government to submit a report on the means used to continue the major information and reminder campaigns of the obstacles. It is also in this way that we will encourage our fellow citizens to be vaccinated because in the equation we have to solve, the vaccine is the solution. It is the key element in the response to the pandemic and especially the delta variant, as the Scientific Council stated in its opinion of 6 July. The Prime Minister said today that 96% of the 18,000 positive cases diagnosed yesterday were not vaccinated. For more than a year, our group has been at the side of the Government to empower it to take action against the pandemic. We will still be doing so today to vote on this bill and to ensure the proper implementation of the new tools it is creating. It is from this perspective that we have asked for guarantees for workers in precarious employment who are placed in isolation in the event of contamination. We won with the adoption of our amendment to have a report on the maintenance of compensatory aid for these workers. Finally, I would like to remind you that our word as a parliamentarian commits us because it has scope. Our fellow citizens hear us and look at us. We must act with responsibility and humility. We must not sweep their fears aside, but we must respond to them and ensure that the democratic debate is held properly. This is also what creates trust and membership. That is why our group has tabled an amendment providing for as many debates in Parliament as will be necessary by 31 December 2021. We will thus allow our fellow citizens to see that crisis management is not done outside the democratic framework. The Dem Group is convinced that acceptance of vaccination is a matter of trust. However, it cannot be achieved without transparency and guarantees. It is under these conditions that solidarity and health citizenship can be at the rendezvous of the fight against an epidemic situation that is returning. This fight can only take place with the French, with the caregivers who will have to be vaccinated in order to continue to take care of vulnerable people and with the professionals who will have to control the health pass. We will have to accompany them on the ground in the implementation of the provisions of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that our group supports this bill because it is necessary, balanced and capable of enabling, as we all hope, a lasting exit from the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u152	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u153	We are entering the fourth wave, which is expected to be severe, due to contamination by the delta variant. In the face of this wave, the only real answer is vaccination. The members of the Socialist and Related Group were the first in this House, from 13 October 2020, to call on them. Our approach was opposed to that of the President of the Republic, who declared on 1 October 2020 that those who announced a vaccine for the month of March or April, "deceived" the French. On the other hand, it was in line with that committed by most of our European and American partners, now ahead of us for vaccination: in the United Kingdom as in other countries, more than 50% of citizens are fully vaccinated and 70% have already received a first dose. Unfortunately, the delay that we have taken does not catch up, which leads you today to invent inconclusive solutions that cripple society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u155	At the forefront of these blond solutions, there is the sanitary pass – in the version you propose, it's understood, and I insist on that precision. You invent a pass without ever having defined a rule beforehand. On the contrary, in a rule of law, it is once the rule has been defined that one imagines sanctions in the event of its transgression. For our part, we are very clear: we ask for compulsory vaccination for all adults; we call for it to be carried out in a concerted and constructive manner this summer; We're asking for a milestone on October 1st. Vaccination in a concerted manner, for example, implies that primary health insurance funds contact all persons over 50 years of age who have not been vaccinated, then those between 40 and 50 years of age, and so on. This implies the provision of vaccination buses that travel to the municipalities, as well as facilities for vaccination, as Italy does for example by its beaches. Finally, and above all, it is necessary to have the necessary doses to vaccinate the 20 million French who have not yet received their first dose and the 28 million who have not yet received the second dose. On this point, Madam Deputy Minister, you must enlighten us. Mr. Véran said yesterday that the pilotage of operations did not exceed three weeks; This answer is not acceptable. If we agree with you about vaccination, we have problems with your medical pass; It is their possible developments that will decide our vote. The first problem is the unity of the country, which we, for our part, seek to promote. Mandatory vaccination for all the adults we propose is intended to apply uniformly. On the contrary, with your pass, you divide the French: there would be the good French on one side, the bad ones on the other, the defiant ones on the other. This breakup is dangerous. Mandatory vaccination has another advantage: it is inclusive. It guarantees real government control, which in particular helps to reduce territorial inequalities in access to the vaccine. Can we be satisfied that some departments have nearly twice as many vaccinees as others? No! By not making sure to force the French to be vaccinated, you renounce the global public health management mission entrusted to you, which would involve, for example, asking the primary health insurance funds to revive people who are not vaccinated by telephone. If we were to summarize our difference of vision, I would say that we are for compulsory vaccination, which includes, and that you are for the sanitary pass, which excludes. Second problem, on which I insist: you cannot punish the French who would not be vaccinated, if you do not have enough doses. The answer that the Prime Minister gave me yesterday shows that the number of doses is sufficient; Mr. Véran's statement that you are piloting operations with a three-week visibility is not acceptable today. The third problem: if we agree with the principle of compulsory vaccination of caregivers, it is on the sole condition that the Government is able to vaccinate them and offer them a first dose before 18 August, so that they will escape the sanctions that you plan to apply from 15 September. The fourth problem: to run your pass, you rely on the employees of restaurants, cafes, as well as the volunteers who will organize events this summer, asking them to control people who wish to access their establishment or demonstration. If they refuse to carry out these checks, you will impose a fine of 1500 euros and then, if they recur, 9000 euros. In this way, you place on others your responsibility to comply with the common rules. This is unacceptable to us. Finally, your health pass creates a false sense of freedom and security, since being vaccinated or having a negative test does not rule out 100% of the possibility of being contaminated. Therefore, to suggest to the French that they can abandon the gestures barriers if they have a sanitary pass, as you did yesterday by publishing a decree dispensing from the wearing of the mask in the places, including enclosed, where the pass is mandatory – I quoted yesterday the example of the Louvre Museum – is totally irresponsible. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We expect the text to evolve on all these points.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u156	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u157	Some 18,000 new cases of covid-19 were recorded the day before yesterday; 96% of the persons concerned were not vaccinated. The extremely rapid progression of the epidemic is widely confirmed and if nothing is done, the epidemiological situation will worsen. The fourth wave is inevitable; It is not a question of whether it will take place, but of how we will control it. In fact, the delta variant, now the majority, changes the situation in terms of control of the epidemic. It is our responsibility to act quickly to contain its fulcruming progress, which risks undermining our health care system, breaking lives, putting the young people who will be affected by long co-vids in difficulty, and weakening our economy. It is therefore important and responsible to act very quickly by drawing lessons from past months. It would be criminal to do otherwise. With the examination of this text, national representation is at the rendezvous of its responsibility. The French will also be able to assume their individual and collective responsibility, which is exercised through the vaccine. To the virus, master of the game of the epidemic, we can now oppose the vaccine, master of time. Vaccines are available, effective, and, as with smallpox, diphtheria, tetanus, poliomyelitis and many other diseases, they will contain or even eradicate covid-19. Of course, the Cassandres shout at the disproportionate risk, at the deprivation of liberty, at the culprit's lack of hindrance. But finally, in a society where distrust is ever more pronounced or even claimed, in a country where debates are hysterizing on so-called social networks, let us return to reason, let us return to scientific knowledge, let us return to trust in our doctors! Debate and questioning are necessary in our democracy, but we will not tolerate invectives, threats and false communication, which is odious. We have all been shocked that some bring the health pass closer to the yellow star or refer to the fate of the victims of the Shoah: justice will take care to respond to these irresponsible ignoramuses. Our compatriots are also, for some, hesitant: they do not show defiance but have legitimate questions, doubts, questions. Our duty is to explain and convince them, and we will do so with understanding and benevolence – but also with great will. If our freedoms have been reduced for months, it is the disease that causes them, not the decisions of the Government. To quickly regain full use, let's vaccinate! Let's have a lot of vaccinations. Let's go quick. Let's go wide. Of course, there are difficult steps to take, but this text provides solutions to continue living as freely and safely as possible. Let us not misunderstand: it is not a question of punishment but of accountability. Article 4 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen states that "freedom shall consist of being able to do anything that does not harm others: for example, the exercise of the natural rights of every human being shall be limited only to those that ensure the enjoyment of those rights by other members of society. These limits can only be determined by law. So we will vote the law. It's our responsibility. This epidemic puts our personal convictions under stress and even undermines them, but it is the issue of individual responsibility that must prevail for a collective victory. Of course, we will vote for constraints, but they are the necessary condition and, we hope, sufficient to exercise our freedom. They will allow those who, in charge, have chosen vaccination, to take advantage of more places, activities, cultural outings, conviviality and social interactions. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the extension of the health pass, which needs to evolve according to the circulation of the virus. At the same time, we will need to be vigilant about accompanying the implementation of these measures in establishments receiving public services, including bars and restaurants. The legislation also provides for compulsory vaccination of staff in the health and medical-social sectors. The Group of the European People's Party has been in favour of this for a long time and can therefore only welcome these provisions. As far as isolation measures are concerned, we have been calling for them for a long time, because the isolation of patients or contact cases is absolutely necessary for the control of the epidemic. This isolation must be strict and rigorous to be effective. He must therefore be accompanied on the one hand – I am thinking in particular of the self-employed and the single parents – and on the other hand, he must be controlled. I would like to recall that the Group of the European People's Party has been able to make a proposal on this subject, in particular by its proposal for a law to test, isolate and treat in order to overcome the health crisis, which was tabled on 1 December 2020. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] "Freedom is the right to do whatever the laws allow," Montesquieu wrote. The text we will be voting for will therefore be a text of freedom: the immense freedom to be healthy in a rich and full social life. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text, which is essential for a speedy resolution of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u158	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u159	The health emergency is there, no one can deny the reality. The President of the Republic invited us to learn how to live with the virus; I fear that we should not learn to live with the successive waves of variants of the virus, which impose restrictive measures on our freedoms, in order to protect the health of our citizens. That is the whole point of today's debate. Members of the IDU and independent group support the introduction of a health pass for certain situations. We were the first to promote this idea, as of last December, when we discussed the Government's vaccination strategy, which at the time was opposed to such a measure. The current situation gives us reason: when the general population has access to vaccines, the health pass is the only way to maintain the opening of activities, places of cultivation, restaurants, and other places of daily life, threatened with closure due to successive epidemic waves. The vaccination obligation for caregivers does not shock us, provided that it is accompanied by incentives and educational measures, so as not to give the impression that those who were placed in the front line and who were applauded every evening at 20 o'clock, during the first confinement, are punished. However, the health emergency does not justify everything and certainly not that the parliamentary debate should be trampled on, by devoting only a few hours in committee. There is no doubt that in such an important text, which includes such restrictive measures for individual and collective freedoms, we parliamentarians want to debate and amend. We want to understand and be convinced of the merits of the proposed measures, because behind us, our fellow citizens want to do so as well. After having been examined for a few hours in committee, the text will be examined for a few hours in public sittings, under conditions that we do not yet know. The health emergency, which no one is contesting, in no way justified this unsustainable, unsustainable timetable, which members of several political groups have deplored – not just those of the opposition. It's doing a bad service to our fellow citizens. When the debate does not take place here,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u160	It's on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u161	...yes, it takes place on the street and on social networks. And we see that it is the door open to all caricatures, to all overflows, to violence sometimes – verbal, physical.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u162	Manipulation, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u163	This is the antithesis of the democratic debate, and of what we must try to do, namely to bring the French together around the common idea that the measures that we have to take, were they harsh, brutal, go in the direction of the general interest, of public health, and of the individual and collective freedoms of our fellow citizens. But if this debate is truncated, and we simply say that an amendment is supported, and then it is the subject of an unfavourable opinion before being rejected, there is no real debate. This will be felt by our fellow citizens. They have already felt this since the beginning of the health crisis, even though this bill is the worst example we have ever seen in this area – even though vaccination gives us the opportunity to debate under normal conditions. All the other texts were considered urgently but with longer periods of debate. I would like to draw your attention to this point, Madam Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Suffer that we take the time for debate, suffer that we take the time to make proposals, to complement those of the bill, so that the French can understand and accept the measures we will take – for if they do not understand them, they will not accept them and the proposed measures will not be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u164	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u165	On 12 May last, the Secretary of State for European Affairs, Clément Beaune, declared on France 2: "We will not have a sanitary pass on a daily basis, for cafes or restaurants, in France. That would be excessive. We do not want a two-speed society. On 25 May, Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Children and Families, raised the price here before the National Assembly: "The health pass will be reserved for major events where respect for barrier actions cannot be assured; Under no circumstances can it be claimed in a food trade or in a restaurant. On 27 December 2020, the President of the Republic himself hammered him: "I said, I repeat, that the vaccine will not be compulsory. Let's trust our researchers and doctors. We are the land of Enlightenment and Pastor, reason and science must guide us. These comments were then repeatedly confirmed by Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health. I'm gonna stop here for government quotes, I think you got the idea. If everyone can understand that it is necessary to adjust the health strategy to the evolution of the epidemic, it is now something else that is involved: a complete reversal. After explaining to us many times why he would not, Emmanuel Macron imposes on us the vaccination obligation, the general health pass and the paid tests. The new emergency bill that you are putting before us – in haste, as the previous speaker reminded us – has very important implications for public freedoms. Above all, it is based on a logic of division of the French totally unacceptable. This majority, to which I belonged then, was elected in 2017 on the triptych to liberate, protect and unite. However, since then it has continued to give the good and bad points and to bring the French against each other...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u166	You had to think about it before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u167	...on the issue of retreats, through the controversy over Islamo-leftism or, of course, with the movement of yellow vests. To such an extent that a police prefect recently decorated commander of the Legion of Honour has launched to a simple citizen who has come to express her opinion in the framework of a demonstration: "We are not in the same camp, ma'am". But how long have civil servants had a camp? Worse, this time, the division's poison will force citizens to sort between themselves, since it will be an obligation for those who hold the cafes, the cinemas – all places or the French like to meet and unite precisely – to control those who will or will not be able to access them according to their state of health. It is the establishment of the famous "society of vigilance" dear to the President of the Republic and which is in fact nothing but a surveillance company. By making ordinary citizens assume police missions, which should be the responsibility of the Government and its administration, Emmanuel Macron will eventually divert the French completely from politics, with which he had promised to reconcile them. It is therefore my turn to repeat: to condition the rights of the French to their state of health is not acceptable in democracy! With these coercive measures, the President of the Republic and his Government are undermining our freedoms and are still digging the democratic caesure that is going through our country. While some still have questions about vaccination – out of fear, for lack of access to information or for any other reason – imposing it on them, in disregard of their sometimes precarious questions or conditions, is a violence that will not change the fact that this government has failed to create support for its health strategy. [["Ah! Still! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, I reject any comparison with a dictatorship – it is a contempt for the women and men who are subjected to it on a daily basis around the world. I also protest against the shameful analogies that some may have suggested with the Shoah or apartheid – it is a spit sent to the faces of the victims and their families. But I am vigilant, precisely because I know the fragility of our precious freedoms, I know that in the wake of a health, political or economic crisis, our rights dearly acquired over the centuries and struggles can be restricted in no time, after which it will be very long – admitting that it is possible – to find them. To avoid fraud, the QR code scan will inevitably have to be accompanied by identity checks. It is therefore the abolition of public space, the end of freedom of movement and the right to anonymity. And we're going to ask the waiters, the cinema openers and the restaurateurs to turn themselves into police officers to control a clientele that has missed them too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u168	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u169	As we know, the provisional and the exceptional often end up lasting. We have seen this with the latest anti-terrorist law which introduces into the common law a myriad of provisions of the state of emergency. The administrative structures set up to manage a temporary situation will always find good reasons to perpetuate their existence. It is therefore the door open to the worst drifts, where facial recognition cameras – like already dreaming of installing Valérie Pécresse or Laurent Wauquiez in the trains of their regions or Christian Estrosi in the streets of his city – will be able to check at every moment our health information, and why not, tomorrow, our identity, listen to our conversations, follow our movements? In an already dark context for rights and freedoms, it is a clear and meaningful choice for the coming world. The health pass and compulsory vaccination thus constitute a new affront of the executive towards the most basic principles of democracy. They have at least the merit of revealing his true face: that of a power that grants freedom only to companies and has no confidence in citizens and society, which he constantly seeks to corporalize. That is why I will oppose this text, both in its philosophy and in its modalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u170	[[At 17.05 a.m., Mr. David Habib replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u171	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u172	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u173	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, the first speaker on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u174	After an erratic crisis management, without any preparation, and despite warnings from scientists about the arrival of the fourth wave, you have not anticipated anything. What has the Government done in social terms? Nothing! What has he done to give real resources to our public hospital since the beginning of this crisis? Nothing! Can such restrictions be condoned by a government that has dared to remove hospital beds in the midst of a pandemic and refuse to tax those who benefit from a crisis? Let us recall the enrichment of the French billionaires during the pandemic. Let's talk, for example, about Bernard Arnault. Its wealth, estimated at over €157 billion, has increased by 57% compared to June 2020. Not less than 60% of French people say they are shocked by the enrichment of shareholders during the crisis, and 66% say they want to tax big fortunes to repay the debt – a proposal that is much more popular than reducing public spending. In short, this is your policy: everything for the rich, and nothing for the people. We oppose your vertical conception of power, where liberticide laws become routine. You are going to make life impossible for the French in the coming weeks, given the time constraints imposed by this bill. The Defender of Rights has given an explicit opinion on the health pass. You remain deaf to public freedoms alerts and choose to coerce rather than convince. We regret it. You have consciously decided not to follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization. According to the latter, compulsory vaccination poses legal and ethical problems, and could undermine public confidence in vaccination. So you get out of your hat the sanitary pass. However, we had proposed many preferred solutions to the restriction of freedoms, which would have made it possible to stop the epidemic: air purifiers in the classrooms, free of masks, and sufficient reinforcement of the resources of public hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u175	Thank you, Congressman. I'll let you close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u176	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I'll finish it, Mr. President. You have just made a cross on the well-being of many French by default of anticipation and planning. Thank you for deleting this article, and for abandoning the sanitary pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u177	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u178	For the second time since the beginning of the year, our country is experiencing a sharp deterioration in its health situation. This was already the case in January. However, you did not take the necessary protective measures, Mr.Minister, Madam Deputy Minister, since you delayed them until the end of March – a decision that had very serious consequences. In June, you advocated a general release – at least in the actions of the President of the Republic, who participated in it. All this has helped to demonstrate the absence of a true strategy, your action being made of setbacks, renunciations, contradictory information. In the face of a situation that has become very serious, you have to make decisions. We will have a responsible attitude towards them. Yes, we believe that vaccination is the only relevant response to the crisis. Yes, we consider it necessary to speed up its deployment. To say this is also to point out that our country has suffered a tragic delay of two to three months compared to the most advanced countries – Israel, Great Britain, the United States. If we had the right order and vaccination strategy, we would not be forced to take measures that would undermine the freedom of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As we say, we will have a responsible attitude, but we will also have the will to erase the most coercive measures. Thus, we do not want the restaurators or hoteliers to have to implement controls whose default would expose them to totally inappropriate and irresponsible sanctions. We would also like to see the date of application of this health pass postponed until everyone can be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u179	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u180	Vaccinated persons are likely to be infected with and transmit the virus, as are unvaccinated persons. There is no doubt about the value of vaccination and its mandatory nature is not called into question by our group, even if we would rather convince rather than compel. We must not abandon this objective by reassuring those who doubt the effectiveness of the vaccine and fear its effects on their health. We need to take into account their concern and to have a clear pedagogical discourse, which would allow for the excellence of the debates that we should be able to conduct in this forum. Once this is done, the vaccine that would reduce the risk of contamination by 12% is essential in the strategy to combat covid-19. Reaching 90% of collective immunity with regard to the aggressiveness of the delta variant is an essential issue, but it involves doses, means of personnel, and an organization that makes it possible to go to the farthest and the poorest. Article 1 extends the health pass to daily life. Major questions remain, in particular about its usefulness for leisure activities and outdoor fairs, where distancing and masks can fulfill its function. The resumption of the pandemic is in direct connection with the Government's over-rapid lifting of certain health measures. Lifting the requirement of wearing masks in enclosed public places for vaccinated persons makes no sense in terms of the contagiosity of the virus. A good balance between sanitary passage and barrier actions must be the solution to win membership. Finally, although revised downwards, the scale of sanctions is too high and disproportionate. If the sanction is the result of the mandatory nature of the proposed measures, it will nevertheless have to be mitigated and graduated over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u181	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u182	Minister, you are extending the application of the health pass to many everyday activities through measures that are difficult to understand and implement, which are therefore difficult to accept for our citizens. Professionals, who will be obliged to control the sanitary pass under penalty, will be on the front line to face the discontent, anger of customers to whom they will refuse access to their establishments and activities. To have a business, to have a place of culture or another type of space welcoming the public is a true priesthood. It's not easy every day, but the women and men who work there invest body and soul because they love people. They like to welcome them and share their passion for a dish, a place, a leisure. Today, you require them to control the health of their customers; you force them to enter their privacy by force; you compel them to restrict, on your behalf, the freedoms of the French. However, they do not have the legitimacy to do so, it belongs to the State. As it is said in my department of Mayenne, "each one's job, the cows will be well guarded" – this quote from a Fable by Florian should inspire you. By forcing restaurateurs, coffee owners and owners of cultural and historical places to control the sanitary pass of their customers and visitors, you risk diverting from our common struggle all those who contribute to the social appeasement and vitality of our territories, and to miss your goal. We need to move forward together. Today, however, you are taking one more step towards division. Minister, act not against the professionals but with them: it is on this condition that we will succeed in going through the health crisis together. As you will understand, I will vote against Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u183	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u184	There are many questions about the health pass, within this assembly of course, but especially in society. I am surprised by the number of messages and inquiries that have been sent to us for the past few days in the permanences and on social networks. The Government and all political leaders must regain the sense of listening: listen to those who doubt – I am not talking about conspiracy or antivax, of course, but about those who need to talk, to be informed, and who, in good faith, are asking questions. We mustn't leave them behind. Beyond the discussion on the health pass or the obligation to immunize, reliable information on the vaccine and its consequences must be made available to them. That's why we've been a lot of people calling for an appointment with the attending physician to be arranged, in addition to the health insurance or text messages, not necessarily to get vaccinated, but to talk to someone you trust. There is also a need to strengthen actions aimed at isolated people and sensitive audiences. [[Ms. Albane Gaillot applauds]] The conditions for applying the sanitary pass must of course be specified and adapted. We hope that the discussion will make it possible to adopt the necessary adjustments, for example on the date of entry into force of the obligation in departments in which appointments are not readily available. It is also desirable to remove the new reason for dismissal, i.e. the absence of vaccination: suspension of activity is already a very important sanction, without the need for dismissal, especially in the current period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u185	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u186	We are engaged in a race against the coronavirus and its variants, but the fact of legislating urgently, saving the pedagogy and not mobilising all the means is not the solution. To convince, it is not enough to take a stick in one hand and a carrot in the other. The numbers are there to remind us and you: in Réunion, the territory where I am elected, the vaccination coverage rate is only 33%, and it is far from being the only overseas department where it is low. Contrary to the President's bet, the health pass adds misunderstandings to the concerns about the vaccine. Rather than aggravating them, the Government must respond. He must hear them and understand them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Mistrust is multiplied in the overseas territories, but this reality is totally ignored, to such an extent that they are only mentioned in the text when it comes to prolonging the state of emergency in Réunion and Martinique. Why do you insist on imposing measures that do not lead to accession? Your solution is counterproductive: far from listening to the population, you deny its differences and its specificities by imposing measures from above that do not receive its consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u187	Like me, you heard the background noise that accompanied the speeches by Mrs Lebon and Mr Orphelin. Since we're going to have to spend a lot of time together,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u188	Nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u189	...I suggest that all speakers be respected. The sound came from my right...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u190	No personal attack, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u191	It may happen, Mr. Gosselin, that you too have interrupted. I ask everyone to really appreciate the importance of this moment. I have before me a series of deletion amendments, Nos 7, 78, 442, 561, 613, 692, 719, 782, 894, 944, 990, 1041, 1154 and 1156. Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u192	Last November, in my first question to the Government, I raised the hope of seeing the end of the tunnel with the arrival of a vaccine. I alerted the Government to its ability to meet the challenge by commanding, storing and delivering the vaccine in large numbers. I stressed the importance of anticipation so that the French do not have to suffer from a shortage. I was told, "Don't start this first exchange with unnecessary controversy," and then, "the procurement strategy is being implemented, I can assure you that all French people will have access to a vaccine." [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Well, here we are! Today, you ask the French to accept the consequences of your mismanagement. Like most of our fellow citizens, I am in favour of vaccination – I am even vaccinated – but the introduction of the pass provided for in Article 1 is contrary to the freedom of movement, which is a fundamental and constitutional right in our country. I therefore request the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u193	On these identical amendments, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u194	He's not in the lead of the protest?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u195	Just two months ago, on a Monday night, we were discussing the sanitary pass and I remember very well – you can see the videos and the reports – when we expressed our fear that it would be extended to places where fewer than a thousand people were staying, you said, heart on hand: "Never is it an infringement of fundamental freedoms! How can you imagine we were going so far? " Two months later, you say exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u196	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u197	The only question we should ask ourselves today in the Chamber is whether the health pass, which will be a sad French exception – perhaps apart from Austria and Denmark – is really useful in combating the epidemic. Is this not a diversion to mask the reduction in the number of hospital beds, the inability to provide early care, to install air purifiers in our schools, to properly sequence the genome of the virus or to control our borders? You are depriving more than 20 million French people of their liberty. You create two categories of citizens. You're putting a part of the French against the others. You're making an uncontrollable gas plant. Because the discussion is not about the health situation but about an absolutely scandalous deprivation of our freedoms, I call for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u198	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 442.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u199	Of course, we want Article 1e to be deleted because we are opposed to the introduction of the health pass for both formal and substantive reasons. We deplore the contradictions and the hastyness of a President of the Republic and a Government who, after having assured that the health pass would never be required for the actions of the daily, changes his mind and leaves twenty-four hours in the National Assembly to study a measure that will weigh heavily on the lives of our fellow citizens. The method is unacceptable on a democratic level; It accentuates the distrust of French and French people towards public speaking, further compromising a hypothetical success of the vaccination campaign in our country. In essence, we reject the utilitarian vision underlying the health pass: individuals are encouraged to be vaccinated, not to contribute to the common good, by virtue of an altruistic and fraternal conception of vaccination, but to satisfy their interests. With the health pass, we are about to enter a society in which the social control of all is made possible – it is absolutely contrary to the ideals of our social Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We call for a strengthening of the vaccination campaign through the deployment of the means of the public authorities in rural areas and in working-class neighbourhoods, where inequalities in access to vaccination are the most important. If this new impetus was not enough to achieve collective immunity, then the question of the vaccination obligation should be raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u200	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 561.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u201	I will not go back to the Government's procrastination about vaccination. The creation of the health pass is a democratic problem. It attacks the foundations of our Republic and freedoms. The Defender of Rights has very precisely expressed her doubts about the creation of the health pass. She expressed her questions about the strong constraints that would place on the freedom to go and come, and her concerns about the control of one part of the population by another, while highlighting the risks of discrimination in employment and the problem of data processing. The CNIL – the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – has also expressed reservations, in particular about the controls entrusted to unauthorised persons. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] Let us repeat: the measure that you propose will have the effect, on the one hand, of opposing the French to each other, allowing one part of the population to control the other without being empowered to do so, and on the other hand, to impose vaccination without saying so. It's absolutely ubiquitous and incomprehensible. We therefore call for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u202	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 613.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u203	By this amendment we call for the deletion of the article on the health pass. According to the Defender of Rights, Claire Hédon, "this is a profound transformation for the exercise of the rights and freedoms that are at the foundation of our social and republican pact". It points to widespread surveillance, targeted control of the freedom to go and come, discrimination in employment, violations of the rights of the child, the rights of the precarious, and I forget about it. Those who, six weeks ago on the benches of the majority, considered that the health pass constituted an infringement of public freedoms, must at least agree that its establishment makes us put our finger in a very serious gear. Gabriel Attal, after stating in May that all the signals were green, now states that the measure will apply as long as the epidemic lasts. In other words, you set up a generalised control company for months or even years. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For hearing the Prime Minister at noon, I also fear that the health pass, in addition to being authoritarian, will become the pass of laissez-faire. For its benefit, you abandon absolutely indispensable strategies, such as targeting people at risk, which the Spanish have done so well. I am concerned to hear that from now on a vaccinated person will no longer be considered a contact case: this is a major health error! In England, 40 per cent of new infected persons were vaccinated; the Netherlands has just sounded the tocsin; As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning to get to know people who are vaccinated, who certainly do not develop a serious form – the vaccine helps to avoid it – but who can contaminate others. Your choice is totally contrary to the policy of tracing contamination. Similarly, I do not understand how you can now say that the sanitary pass will provide protection in closed places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u204	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 692.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u205	It took more than two centuries of legislative evolution – more than two centuries of struggle to conquer rights and define the fundamental principles that govern our nation – to arrive at a text that violates freedoms and divides the French. France and the French will survive this health crisis, regardless of the strategy proposed by the Government, but what about our rule of law, the inviolability of the human body, medical secrecy, the right to work, the freedom to go and come, equal access to public services, non-discrimination on grounds of health, and now? The aim pursued by this text is certainly legitimate, but is it only shown that there are no other less liberticide solutions but just as effective as the health pass to achieve the objective set? To what extent can such laws be voted under the guise of urgency? Will all these principles, which are no longer immutable, serve again as a reference after the covid epidemic? Will this virus ever stop mutating and spreading or are we moving towards perpetual surveillance of movements and bodies, in the name of the health of our fellow citizens? Freedom and fundamental guarantees are not objects of experience with which one can play to find a solution. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You will have understood that the purpose of this amendment is the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u206	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 719.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u207	What we need to worry about as much as illness is the habituation, the habituation of urgency, the habituation of extreme haste to vote for texts, the habituation of so many deprivations of liberty, the habituation of a public word that is worthless, which one day swears that the wearing of the mask is useless and which then imposes it, which one day swears that there will be no forced isolation of patients and which then asks for it, which one day swears that there will be no sanitary pass and which today enshrines it in the law. Yes, what has to worry us as much as the disease is the habituation, the habituation of the bankruptcy of certain principles to which we were still a few months ago firmly attached, the habituation to a company of permanent checks, in particular checks carried out by catering professionals, of which, a few months ago, we would never have imagined that they could become verifiers of identity and health data. What we need to worry about is the habituation of a form of accountability of our fellow citizens: everything in this text pushes them out of their responsibility; In fact, you do not believe, Madam Deputy Minister, Minister, that they can show responsibility. What we need to worry about is still the fracturing of society. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] As the President said earlier, the law we are discussing is not an ordinary law: it will transform our society in a lasting way, beyond the health situation. The easy solution is the sanitary pass; the courage would have been to seek to establish a climate of trust in our country, which you were unable to do, out of weakness. I cannot imagine that this text draws the contours of society in the years to come. That is why, as a matter of principle, I will oppose it with all my strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u208	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 782. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know what's going to happen, so I'm going to ask you – if only to show that Members deserve to be respected (Same movements) – to keep you from demonstrating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u209	[[Same movements]] Deputy Minister, Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u210	An apology to the national representation would not be too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u211	... I would like to be able to defend this deletion amendment in complete serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u212	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u213	[[Mr Bruno Millienne leaves the Chamber]] It's intolerable! I'm leaving!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u214	I invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to show Mrs Wonner that parliamentarians are responsible people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u215	Responsible and respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u216	Mr Rebeyrotte, you have already spoken! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I must tell you, Mrs Wonner, that your speaking time is being counted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u217	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] That is a great pity, Mr President, because I would like to be able to fully defend this deletion amendment. Basically, what society are we building for our fellow citizens and future generations? This health pass does not preclude persons vaccinated from non-vaccinated persons. We were able to see him in the streets of our beautiful country since all together, the citizens met to protest...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u218	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u219	... to defend fundamental rights and freedoms. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Since March 2020, this government has divided...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u220	You are protesting, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, but we have done everything we can to ensure that Mrs Wonner is not elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u221	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Since March 2020,....
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u222	Mrs. Wonner, time is running out, I'll cut you off in 20 seconds. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u223	I'm very surprised at the show you're giving... [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Are you aware that I have been threatened as much, if not more, every day for eighteen months? Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u224	This is unacceptable! Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u225	This health pass will stigmatize the population. Why? For his own good? Absolutely not. The health pass will very quickly put to the ban of this society people who have made a different choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Wonner. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 894.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u227	[["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us go back to the bottom of the discussion and cite some factual facts. Let us remember: not so long ago the President praised the return of the "happy days" and each member of the Government staged at the coffee terraces to exalt the resumption of the normal course of daily life. And for what? To get to this text! What a terrible incompetence it took for us to be there! However, I have sometimes been in perfect agreement with the President of the Republic, for example, when he said that no obligation would be able to meet the mistrust and that it was important to do a pedagogy to convince. This text divides the nation and the French, some members of the majority themselves have rightly stressed it in committee. It contains unacceptable inconsistencies, particularly in Article 1. How will you explain that it will not apply in most shopping centres and supermarkets when it is imposed, even before the passing of this law, for small outdoor events organized by associations in our villages? How are you going to explain that you are going to force the practice of outdoor sport after having exalted the resumption of sports activities? How will you explain that for wedding meals taking place in a private setting with catering services, the sanitary pass will not be required, while for those who are in a restaurant, even if they gather fewer guests? And how can we accept that criminal sanctions can be imposed on small entrepreneurs who will have to carry out checks on our fellow citizens when they have neither the human resources nor the legal means to do so? And many other questions arise. An example: who will pay the severance benefits for employees whose small businesses will have to get rid of when they don't want to? All this shows that the sanitary pass is inapplicable in most places. What's more, it's ineffective. As long as the measures are actually implemented after the decrees have been issued, a degrease movement will begin at the end of August, as Minister Veran said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u228	You too have exceeded your speaking time, Mr. Di Filippo.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u229	We've got all night!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u230	We shall now hear Mr Joachim Son-Forget, who supports Amendment No 944.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u231	Instead of having the courage to resort to coercion, you have taken, with the health pass, the risk of violating freedoms, not the individual freedoms that Minister Veran liked to caricature earlier, but the collective freedoms. You want to give the French the impression that they make use of their free will by getting vaccinated as you push them to make this choice by rewarding them with a pass. You apply a theory imported from Anglo-Saxon countries, that of libertarian or nudge paternalism, which consists of giving people the illusion they decide for themselves when they are forced to choose. Another question is whether vaccination should be made compulsory. I don't think so. Populations at risk were able to benefit from early vaccination thanks to quickly developed messenger RNA vaccines and that is very good. But given the benefit-risk ratio, I believe that healthy people, whether minors or not, who are not obese, who have no reason to develop a serious form of covid or die from it, should have the choice. Everything is actually a matter of timing. This compulsory vaccination, I may be able to defend myself in a few months, but I think we need to give ourselves some time. It remains a few months before so-called recombinant protein vaccines are manufactured, the side effects of which will be negligible compared to the expected benefits. In these circumstances, it seems to me preferable to retain an intermediate route which consists of not going to the liberticide solution of the health pass or to compulsory vaccination. Let us continue to vaccinate at-risk populations with the weapons we have, continue to develop our knowledge of SARS-CoV-2, delay vaccination of populations that are not at risk and maintain effective vaccination coverage as an objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u232	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 990.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u233	We also call for the removal of the sanitary pass. First of all, we prefer measures that involve the responsibility of everyone and national solidarity, rather than a coercive policy. Secondly, because it will have unacceptable consequences: it can, for example, serve as a reason to dismiss an employee. While we remain committed to the principle of the widest possible vaccination, as long as vaccination coverage in our country is marked by a social and territorial divide, we will never be able to accept the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u234	Mr Pradié, I must make it clear that speaking time is, by tradition, never shown for the defence of the amendments. I have nothing to do with it, so it is. I'm telling you, by the way, that the two minutes are up. Perhaps it would be good, as you suggest, for me to show myself ten seconds before. In view of the number of amendments that we still have to discuss, I would ask everyone to respect their speaking time. I am sure that Mr Jean Lassalle will gladly submit to this rule in support of Amendment No 1041.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u235	Solidarity with the Pyrenees!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u236	It's a brilliant transition, Mr. President! The purpose of this amendment is to put an end to this government's harmful strategy for the nation. For the past year, our citizens have suffered the consequences of failing to manage the crisis and have received contradictory, late or even completely false information. To justify its decisions, the Government relies, on the advice of scientists, who are never made public, and, on the other hand, on surveys supposed to translate public opinion, completely distorted by their designers and lacking objectivity because they do not respect the rules. There is an urgent need to stop imposing the impossible, manipulating the truth and restricting freedoms. The French are aware of the seriousness of the situation and able to mobilize if decisions and measures are fair, intelligent and respectful. Last January, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution stressing the non-compulsory nature of vaccination, prohibiting political or social pressure and discrimination against non-vaccinated persons. And what did our government do? He chose a reverse path! While WHO recommends not to force people to be vaccinated, but to convince them, it has decided to impose a health pass, to prolong the state of health crisis, to use decrees and to apply sanctions to non-vaccinated persons engaged in certain professions as well as to those in charge of places receiving from the public if they do not control the health pass sufficiently. These are violations of individual freedoms and violations of patients' free and informed consent. He chooses to go against the democratic process, to flout national representation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u237	Your time has expired, Mr. Lassalle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u238	I only had one line to read!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u239	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1154.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u240	We will have time, Mr Secretary of State, to discuss in the course of the examination of Article 1e r and the related amendments, the obstacle to the economic recovery of the health pass, the cost to local authorities of applying these measures, the inconsistency of certain provisions – which apply for example in TGVs but not in TERs, buses or metros – or the decision of the Prime Minister, announced at noon, not to request identity checks, which we welcome, but makes the scheme totally ineffective. First of all, I would like to refer to the value of public speaking. This has already been stressed, the Government has stated in every respect that it would not extend the health pass to the acts of daily life; He said it, repeated it, engaged his hand on his heart. Beyond this statement, our Assembly, in the context of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, voted last January a text which seemed to me quite consistent and which respected the rule of law. [["Oh! » and protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] The text stated that to ensure a high level of vaccine acceptance, "it is necessary to ensure that citizens are informed that vaccination is not compulsory and that no one is under political, social or other pressure to be vaccinated, if he or she does not wish to do so personally; ensure that no one is discriminated against for not being vaccinated, for potential health risks or for not wanting to be vaccinated. We voted for this text, endorsed it because its provisions were reasonable and respectful of the rule of law. However, by asking us to pass this bill, you are in complete violation of this bill. Do not ask yourself any more about the reasons for abstaining: the break between the people and their elites is precisely due to the failure to respect the public word.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u241	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support Amendment No. 1156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u242	The sanitary pass you want to introduce is in fact a compulsory vaccination disguised. Indeed, when reading article 1, it must be observed that in order to travel, to travel from one territory to another, to go to a restaurant or to the cinema, the Government asks the French to present either a vaccine or a virological test or a certificate of recovery. On the other hand, the President of the Republic has announced – I would say he has already decided – the end, next autumn, of the reimbursement of screening tests, except for medical prescriptions. In fact, the president talks about "comfort" tests, which we contest because doing shopping, doing acts of daily life or moving freely are not gestures of comfort. Two choices will be offered to the French: either to pay continuously for tests that cost 50 euros on average, and this as many times as necessary to carry out the acts of daily life, or to get vaccinated when they are not all in favour. I am opposed to the Government's method of imposing vaccination, which runs counter to everyone's free choice. Make efforts, ladies and gentlemen, to convince rather than coerce! That is why I am asking for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u243	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u244	[[Exclaims among non-attached MPs and murmurs on various benches]] In view of the dramatic health consequences of the abolition of Article 1, I express an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u245	I call on the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u246	I will be brief in that we will have an opportunity to discuss the application of the health pass when we consider future amendments. Beyond the debates on the obligation to vaccinate or not and on the modalities of the health pass, the situation that needs us in the short term is binary...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u247	It's not binary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u248	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... and this is the only one we need to take into account at the moment: either we introduce the sanitary pass, or we will have to impose new health constraints, such as curfew, the closure of bars, restaurants and ERPs, or even a reconfiguration. The rest is literature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u249	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u250	Your logic, Secretary of State, is quite questionable. The Council of State itself has strongly called into question the method used. I quote his opinion, which dates back to 48 hours, that is to say last Monday: "This situation is all the more regrettable given that the bill raises sensitive and for some new issues that require a delicate reconciliation between the requirements of guaranteeing public freedoms and the health considerations put forward by the Government. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u251	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u252	The Council of State thus denounces the fact that the Government seems to take only health aspects into account, to the detriment of the law. Once again, the considerations of the Council of State have been swept away, while they were only intended to recall the rule of law. Madam Minister Delegate, Mr Secretary of State, how can it be that in this House you do not respect the rules of a rule of law? In fact, even today, the Defender of Rights has made it very clear that not only are the measures provided for liberticide, but that they will create cracks in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u253	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and several benches of the FI group]] A Government has a strong responsibility to ensure national coherence and harmony. You do the opposite, dividing the nation. Are you assuming your actions? Once again, we would like answers to our questions; Don't sweep them with a back of your hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u255	I will only accept two speakers. I promise you to turn around, but given the number of amendments, let us try to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u256	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Brouhaha on the benches of the LaREM group]] You cannot, Mr Secretary of State, constantly oppose this type of blackmail, which is to say that because of the progress of the delta variant, if we do not introduce the sanitary pass, we will have to confine everyone! Stop saying, as in the first wave, that you couldn't guess what was going to happen. The delta variant has been present in Europe since January.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u257	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u258	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Only you could imagine that he could be present in all the countries of Europe, except in France! There was only you to imagine that this variant would bother all countries during the summer, except France. And you are announcing in the middle of July that he has arrived in our country and that we must react at the last minute!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u259	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u260	For more than a year, with members of my parliamentary group, we have been asking you to plan, prevent and plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u261	The virus didn't listen to Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u262	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For more than a year, you have been caricatured by saying that we are not proposing anything as we make proposals. You know, prevention and planning is planning; To govern is to predict and not to improvise. Yet, you improvise by introducing a sanitary pass at the last moment, without rudder. Today, even the Defender of Rights refers to major problems of differentiation. On the frontons of the town halls, it is written: "Freedom, Equality, Fraternity". Where's equality? Not everyone has yet received their first injection; People were waiting, especially because the Government announced in May that the epidemic was behind us and that we could remove the masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u263	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u264	My point of order is based on Rule 100, paragraph 7. The reply we have just received from the Secretary of State on the deletion amendments is not one. This is an illustration of the division that you want to introduce into society and that you want to find here in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u265	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u266	[[Laughs and applause on many benches]] Let Mr Chiche go on, for once a point of order is based on an existing article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u267	Mr President, you will win the prize of political humour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u268	I'll go ahead, don't you mind. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your comment, it is kind to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u269	You're innovating, Mr. Chiche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u270	You cannot tell the national representative, Mr. Secretary of State, that there is no alternative to adopting the Government's bill or causing an increase in the number of deaths. You had already stated in the debate on the introduction of the AntiCovid All app that those who would not be in favour of it should take on the increase in the number of deaths. MEPs on each of these benches make proposals: the Socialist and related group proposes the vaccination obligation to break with the cynicism of the health pass, future amendments will suggest different modulations in the application of this scheme. You cannot, by way of an opinion on amendments to delete the article, simply say that we will have the rest of the night to debate it and that we are either in the right place or on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u271	Where's the rule call?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u272	We deserve detailed explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u273	We have understood the meaning of your point of order, which has begun well but has subsequently moved away from the procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u274	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 7, 78, 442, 561, 613, 692, 719, 782, 894, 944, 990, 1041, 1154 and 1156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u275	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 266 Number of votes cast 258 Absolute majority 130 For adoption 103 Against 155
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u276	I have before me five amendments, Nos 524, 614, 720, 768 and 843, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 614, 720, 768 and 843 are identical. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 524.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u277	The purpose of this amendment is to limit the time allowed to the Government by this bill and to replace the date of "31 December 2021" with the date of "30 September 2021". Indeed, the possibilities of setting up and executing the health pass must allow us to face a possible epidemic peak that would lead us to too much knowledge until – on the horizon of the end of August, according to Minister Olivier Véran. We will have to verify the operationality of the measures in this bill, on which I have enormous doubts and grounds for opposition, by the end of September. This will allow the national representation to reposition itself on all the legislative arrangements, under conditions more favourable than those of yesterday evening in committee and today – or this night – in plenary session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u278	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 614.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u279	[[Approvals on a few benches of the LR group]] I'll sign up for Mr. Chiche's continuity. Whether we are in favour or against, the decisions we are debating today are of great importance and will have major consequences for the lives of our fellow citizens. We take our role as parliamentarians seriously, and it is not acceptable to vote on decisions that will be in force until December. You refuse to discuss again the relevance of the mechanism in September: a large part of us see it as definitive proof that decisions are not taken by Parliament, but only by the President of the Republic. The discussion that has just taken place bears witness to this – despite our disagreements, I invite you to think about it. [["That's not true! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Colleagues of the majority, did you enjoy discovering, during a speech by the President of the Republic, that serious decisions had been taken, even though nothing had been discussed in the Assembly? That's the truth! The decisions were not taken by Parliament: the President of the Republic spoke and made a series of announcements. That's the reality. If you want to defend your honour as parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u280	Please let Mr Corbière, ladies and gentlemen, speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u281	Can I talk, or are you gonna cut me off systematically? If you take your role as parliamentarians seriously, if you want to keep control over decisions, you have to discuss the mechanism again in September. Do not abdicate, remain parliamentarians, vote on our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u282	Be aware, Mr Rebeyrotte, that Mr Corbière – like all Members – has the freedom to organise his speech as he wishes during his two minutes of speech. So you don't have to tell me that he's far from the subject. Let's respect ourselves, and let's listen. Earlier, you will enjoy the same latitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u283	Can we vaccinate Mr. Rebeyrotte against stupidity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u284	Please stop, too, Mr. Corbière. Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 720.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u285	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the SOC and FI groups]] The laconic statement you have just made, Secretary of State, is a serious mistake. Perhaps you are binary, but democracy and parliamentary debate are not. You cannot say that all parliamentarians who are opposed to the health pass are criminals in power. This is unworthy of a representative of the Government. You have before you women and men who, perhaps even more so than you, are attached to the health of their fellow citizens. You're not in the hands of those responsible, and we're not in the hands of irresponsible people. [[Approvals on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, you lied saying that we had the choice only between the health pass and other more restrictive measures. In the Pyrénées-Orientales, our citizens will have to bear the sanitary pass and curfew. Since you seem so strong in your certainties, I invite you to state here, before the national representation, that the health pass will prevent our fellow citizens from being subjected to new constraints, including new reconfigurations. If you have the audacity to say it before us, it is that you are not up to your responsibilities. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Since the beginning of the crisis, we have sought to strike a balance between the preservation of the freedoms inherent in our model of society and democracy, of which we are proud, and the protection of our citizens. Because you're feverish, you're trying to impose a caricatural debate. We will not give in, because we are the guarantors of the general interest and freedoms of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u286	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u287	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 768.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u288	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] France has imposed long-standing compulsory vaccinations, and the French have never needed a health pass to accept vaccines absolutely necessary for public health. The health pass is therefore not the alpha and omega of a public health policy. My amendment is to delete the paragraph which once again extends, until 31 December, the period during which the Prime Minister may apply the measures of the state of health emergency. We wish to return to the deadline of 30 September. Parliament can discuss everything, and parliamentarians have always been present when you needed them. We therefore ask you to discuss emergency measures and their adaptation before 30 September. Stop announcing your decisions at the press conferences of the President of the Republic and the interventions of the ministers! Such a functioning is in no way democratic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u289	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support Amendment No. 843.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u290	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The prolongation of the state of health emergency from September to December is like divination: given the increase in contamination, you guess that the reproduction of the disease will follow an exponential curve and lead to the disaster. If you read it in the coffee marc, hat! Unfortunately, you don't give us all the information. Thus, no one talks about the pathogenicity of the variants currently circulating: are patients as ill as with other forms of coronavirus, and do they have the same symptoms? Do you know the physiopathology of this disease, with the related haematological and neurological disorders? Certainly not: even I, who am a specialist in this field, do not know. So you can't predict the evolution of the situation. So why should we let ourselves be anaesthetized? The control exercised by a part of the executive, if it is accustomed to a certain comfort, enormizes the population; On the contrary, she must stay awake, make her own choices and decide what she wants for her own body. You guess that you will need to extend your control and, in doing so, you defy Parliament. I repeat, this is an infringement not of individual freedom, but of collective freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u291	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u292	I can make you the short version!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u293	We prefer the long one with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u294	Paragraph 3 extends, until 31 December 2021, the crisis management regime established by the Act of 31 May 2021 throughout the territory. This extension is both necessary to deal with the threat posed by accelerating the movement of the delta variant on the national territory, adapted to the situation which requires the preservation of most activities and the continuation of the fight against the epidemic, and proportionate in its duration, which is three months. The Government's action remains subject, regardless of the applicable regime, to the enhanced parliamentary control provided for the state of emergency in the health sector by article L. 3113-1 of the Public Health Code. Referred to under the same article, on 16 July 2021 the Scientific Council gave an opinion in favour of this bill, both for the metropolis and for the overseas departments and territories. The opinion of the Council of State also validates this extension. My opinion is therefore unfavourable on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u295	And that was the short version!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u297	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u298	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u299	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I would like to respond to the arguments that the oppositions have been battling on both sides for many hours, as they did in committee. Obviously, we have on our benches many epidemiologists: they had planned everything and knew that in July, contamination by the delta variant would assemble the French! Who could say in April or May that we would be in such a situation in July? No one. You cannot pretend otherwise – reality and science are inviolable fortresses. If we are in the ninth text on the health crisis, it is because the situation requires a response. The majority, the Government and the President of the Republic react to every episode of the epidemic in a measured way – reacting in time and time, it is called pragmatism. [[Ms Caroline Fiat exclaimed]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] I hear that the sanitary pass is not satisfactory – no one on any bench is satisfied with this constraint imposed on the French – but what other solution do you propose? Some advocate compulsory vaccination – I defend it myself – but it takes time. No less than 20,000 cases have been recorded in the last 24 hours: how can we react immediately to this epidemic that is accelerating? Do we have to re-establish the French? Should we let the virus go – is that what you want? I do not hear any alternative proposals to the health pass on the opposition benches. As for the deadline at 31 December,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u300	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u301	... no doubt, whether it is the deputies of the majority – who will vote this text in responsibility – the Government or the Minister of Health, if the epidemic were to...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Chalas. Mrs Fiat, you noted earlier that you had not interrupted anyone. You're already derogating! Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u303	The Government and the majority of them sail in godilla, as they say in my home, and they even sail with tricks. I pointed out earlier that you are unable to develop a vaccination scheme that integrates the most damaged, the most remote, the most socially prevented from accessing the vaccine. You do not want to address this concern. There is nothing to say about how those who are not ideologically reluctant to the vaccine, but who, for cultural, social or geographical reasons, do not have access to it, will be able to benefit from the health pass. The same question arises for high school students: nothing in your announcements indicates that you will mobilize school medicine to ensure that children and their families have confidence in the vaccine. The health pass is an unacceptable violation of public freedoms. Moreover, it does not demonstrate its health effectiveness. You state, Mr. Secretary of State, that we had no choice but between the sanitary pass and the containment. Therefore, why not have introduced this miracle solution earlier, which the President of the Republic found in his great loneliness, and which he imposes in the middle of the summer? You have no will to deploy, in a concerted manner, access to the vaccine for all, everywhere, based on trust and not on an authoritarian posture. That is what we denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u304	On Amendments Nos 495 and 495, which will be called in a moment, I am seized by the UDI Group and independent of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u305	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 563, 495, 562, 769, 34, 138, 232, 912, 958, 1044, 1045, 1120, 147 and 229, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 495, 562 and 769 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 34, 138, 232, 912, 958, 1044, 1045 and 1120, and Amendments Nos 147 and 229. I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 563.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u306	The aim is to limit the period during which the Prime Minister may apply the measures of the state of emergency to 15 October 2021. I will quickly mention the situation in La Réunion: it is a matter of concern, and the vaccination campaign does not take place. The Reunions are not sheep. They are mostly opposed to the extension of the health pass, but are not irresponsible. We know very well that fighting to reduce contamination requires ways other than your coercive method. The first solution is to give the university hospital centre (CHU) of La Réunion, which is the great hospital of the Indian Ocean, the means of its policy. Although this facility accommodates all patients in the Indian Ocean, its funding is insufficient; It is in great difficulty, and its situation will worsen further if it faces new epidemics. Extending the health pass also means increasing the difficulties of hoteliers, restaurants and car rental companies, at a time when state aid is decreasing. It is a significant restriction on the freedom to move and undertake. We are therefore resolutely opposed to the extension of this pass. However, we are not irresponsible. Rather than a strategy imposed by Paris, we want to build a local strategy to reduce the virus, in consultation with associations, health professionals and mayors. Anyway, we're responsible. We know that vaccination is the solution, but we do not want compulsory vaccination or the extended health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u307	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 495.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u308	The purpose of this amendment is to change the date of exit of the state of emergency. The fact that the executive can take restrictive measures outside the parliamentary debate is not neutral. In fact, it is a question of how long Parliament agrees to divest itself of its constitutional prerogatives in favour of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u309	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u310	It does so in conscience, given the urgency of health and the seriousness of the development of the delta in recent weeks, but it cannot do so ad vitameternam, because it is not healthy from the point of view of the acceptability by our fellow citizens of brutal and restrictive measures of their freedoms. Bringing back to 31 October 2021, as we propose, the end of the transitional period is not to deprive the Government of the possibilities to combat the epidemic, it is simply to force it to anticipate, which it does very rarely since the beginning of the crisis, the evolution of the virus and the measures to be taken, and above all to debate before national representation to avoid the debate taking place elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u311	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 562.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u312	This is an amendment to the amendment which Mr Naillet has just tabled. I repeat what has been said at the moment: at the end of eighteen months of a state of health emergency, we can no longer really speak of an emergency, of an effect of surprise or of an inability to manage this situation. In March 2020, we were all struck by the absolutely unprecedented situation that the Government faced and during which it had to take action that we addressed by demonstrating understanding and recognizing their scope, stake and importance. Eighteen months later, it is, to say the least, hypocritical and surprising to say that the special provisions of the state of emergency or of the transitional state remain necessary to be able to decide. It is time for Parliament to regain its prerogatives. I understood in committee yesterday that it bothered the minister around, but it is one of the foundations of our democracy. Count on us to ensure that you are regularly told that you must respect Parliament, and to take our full part in the debate, as we are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u313	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor in support of Amendment No 769.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u314	This is an amendment which is in line with the one I presented to you earlier. If we understand that, at the beginning of the health crisis, solutions had to be found to act quickly, we must now return to the normal functioning of our democracy. It is even about the acceptability of the measures and legislation that you are introducing to us. Parliament is here to represent the French nation. It is essential that it can validate the decisions you will have to make over the course of the water. As you know, Parliament is also agile. Let us leave this state of emergency and return to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u315	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u316	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the Dem and LR groups]] Like the previous amendments, the aim of this amendment is to change the date of departure of the state of emergency by bringing it back to 31 October without waiting for 31 December 2021, as you propose. The transitional regime for exiting the state of emergency was initially to last until 30 September. No doubt you remember that we had long discussions thanks to our MODEM friends on this release date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u317	Let Mrs Ménard express herself who will stop her provocations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u318	These are not provocations at all, Mr. President! I welcomed the work of the members of the MODEM Group...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u319	Either, forgive me, Madame Ménard. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u320	[["Very good! and some applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Government proposes to extend the state of emergency until 31 December, in six months' time; It's way too long. Each time you oppose us with the same argument, that of urgency, but the urgency does not prevent Parliament from meeting. The evidence is that we're here and we're going to discuss and pass a bill in four days, and even within a few hours. As you can see, every time Parliament has to vote in order to feed the democratic debate, we are on the rendezvous. We were during the first confinement, which was very hard. I do not see why we could not meet again in October to decide whether to leave this state of health emergency or to stay there. It's logic itself, common sense itself. It would be a proof of respect for the French people and the parliamentarians who represent them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u321	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u322	We really feel like we've been radoting for months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u323	Then stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u324	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The state of health emergency was a necessity at a given time and we were many in March 2020 to vote on it because of the need for tools to manage the crisis. Secondly, it was necessary to emerge from a form of intellectual, legal comfort, the trivialization of the state of emergency – which is an exorbitant right of ordinary law, a right of exception – with a regime of exit from crisis. Since then, with yo-yo strikes here and there, we go out, we go home, and now it's about extending the exit from the state of emergency. The psychodrama that took place here in May was rightly recalled: one Monday evening, after a sitting suspension, a vote was unfavourable because a group of the majority – I understand it – was surprised that the exit from the state of emergency could be prolonged over the course of the water. Here we are again: the stream is no longer 30 September or 31 October, but the end of the year, when we have been saying for months that it is entirely permissible to allow Parliament to speak regularly, but not under the pressure of events. You will answer us, rapporteur – if you speak! – that Parliament has been meeting for so many hours and months, but each time it does so under the pressure of events. Why don't we just make sure we have a re-visit clause every three months? That's what Sacha Houlié and I proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u325	Bravo Sacha!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u326	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But you never wanted to grant that request. We therefore propose an early re-visitation clause to 31 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u327	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 232.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u328	The state of health emergency should be exceptional. But it tends to become the norm. You are accommodating this situation while the functioning of democracy is deteriorating – which may be temporarily acceptable in a crisis situation, but which now tends to be renewed. The problem is that you don't trust democracy, when it should be an ally to deal with the crisis. The measures that will be taken will be more easily accepted by our fellow citizens if they are defended by all the representatives of the nation and than by the only vertical authority of the President of the Republic in a speech at twenty o'clock or by the interventions – sometimes contradictory, the rest – of the ministers. I repeat, we believe that democracy can be an ally in the face of this crisis as you are wary of it. That is why we propose a restriction on the duration of the state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u329	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 912.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u330	As we know, a state of emergency is a very restrictive regime of exception to freedoms, and the longer the crisis lasts, the more the logics of division develop. It is time to move on to a phase in which the democratic imperative is not a gadget but the essential one, so that Parliament is involved, what it is today. All Members are mobilized to meet as much as possible when the situation is changing, as well as to gather and federate in a serene debate. Linking Parliament on a permanent basis is a democratic imperative that becomes central in order to avoid the drifts we have observed and to avoid building walls where convergences must be created in order to reassure, to do pedagogy. That is why this amendment aims to bring the date of exit of the state of emergency closer to health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u331	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 958.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u332	This amendment, like the previous amendment, aims to postpone the term of the exceptional powers entrusted to the Prime Minister until 31 October 2021. Within the majority, we are and I am committed to the parliamentary debate, to its vitality – as we see it today –, to our participation, to our contribution to the national debate, to our legislative power, to the passing of the law by us, as provided for in our Constitution, to the evaluation, to the monitoring of the Government's action by our assembly. I hope that the point will be re-examined in no more than three months, in order to see together how the health measures we are taking today should be adapted. They are very restrictive for the French, we have decisions that are difficult to take today and tomorrow and very serious consequences. We are talking about the health pass, but also about mandatory isolation or the obligation to vaccinate for caregivers. All of us, consciously and responsibly, try to place the cursors in the right place and exercise is difficult. We can't stay in a permanent state of emergency, and we're out of it. We are in a transitional phase and it is important that we keep the pace of parliamentary deadlines, hence this amendment to see us again by 31 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u333	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 1044.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u334	We live in a time when our freedoms are hidden. Through this bill, we are going to vote for drastic measures to try to protect our fellow citizens as much as possible. It is not just a question of choosing between death or freedom, but of finding, as parliamentarians, the right measure for our fellow citizens to survive. During confinement, we have all encountered difficult cases, children who suffer, battered women, women who die every day and you have echoes of them. The measures we are going to vote in this text will put pressure on our fellow citizens, but it is a lesser evil in relation to the confinement we have experienced and its consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u335	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u336	I hope that we can support businesses in this post-crisis situation. I have tabled this amendment because I remain optimistic that the measures we are going to vote on will achieve immunity by 31 October. That is why I think we will be able to get out of the health emergency by that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u337	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor to support Amendment No. 1045.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u338	Principles have value only in times of crisis. However, as many colleagues have rightly pointed out, it is our duty, I say very quickly, to organise a speedy return to common law, which is not in contradiction with the effectiveness of the fight against the covid-19 pandemic that is going through our country. [["Very good" on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and FI groups]] That is the meaning of these amendments. If it is necessary in view of the circumstances to postpone the date provided for by the law of 31 May 2021, we must not give up the objective of re-establishing a lasting legislative framework very quickly, which can be activated in the event of a crisis similar to that which our country is going through. It would be appropriate, Mr Secretary of State, for you to hear the parliamentarians who are telling you today that extending this health emergency regime until 31 December 2021 is not sustainable. It is about democracy, it is about the work of parliamentarians, who are just as concerned as you about the health situation of our fellow citizens. So please hear our proposal to advance this date to October 31, 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u339	I call Mrs Aina Kuric to support Amendment No. 1120.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u340	This proposal to bring the transitional regime to an end by 31 October is defended by almost all the groups in this House. Many of us are questioning whether or not we are in favour of the health pass. The situation which has been evolving for the past year and a half, and with it the state of our knowledge, the measures we are taking must also evolve in order to adapt to this situation. [[Applause on a few benches of the Action ens group]] It is simply a question of inviting the Government to come back to the parliamentarians so that we can adjust the strategy as much as necessary. It would be reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, for us as national representatives, to go in this direction: to leave such exceptional tools in the hands of the Government until such a late date as 31 December would be excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u341	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u342	We must all bear in mind that the measures we are discussing and that this House is in danger of adopting will profoundly change the regime of exit from the state of emergency and crisis management adopted in May to make it dangerously drift towards what was the original state of emergency. Even if the name remains unchanged, suggesting that we are still in a state of emergency, the tools of deprivation of liberty that will be available to the Government will in fact be those of the state of emergency. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] If, with more than 1000 amendments on this text, the House has perhaps never been so mobilised on any of the health emergency texts that you have been submitting to us for a year and a half, it is indeed the symptom of a lack of method from the beginning. It is that from the outset, you have systematically had the widest possible durations of state of emergency adopted in order to avoid a regular parliamentary debate. What we want is to help you to enter into a logic of permanent discussion with Parliament, which would avoid the impasse in which your deadlines have systematically placed you. You must understand that Parliament must be at the heart of the mechanism to combat this epidemic and that everything will be all the easier for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u344	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Advance that date; accept that we debate at regular intervals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u345	Amendment No 229 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u346	These discussions on the deadline for health crisis management regimes follow and are similar.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u347	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u348	To your lack of method! You don't know where you're going!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u349	I believe that in the eighth text on this issue in fourteen months, there is no longer a need to demonstrate that Parliament is inescapable and that the Government continues to be accountable to it. I am committed to setting 31 December as the date for the extension of the crisis management regime because it will allow the deployment of the health pass, and 30 September as the date for the extension of the state of emergency in Martinique and Réunion, as is already the case in Guyana – I invite you to read Article 12 of this text. Coming from an amendment defended by Philippe Vigier on behalf of the Dem Group, he will put you a little bit into what you want. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u350	Still so poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u351	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u352	This is indeed the eighth time in a year and a half...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u353	By the force of things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u354	...that the Government presents itself before the national representation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u355	Under the pressure of events!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u356	... to have exceptional provisions voted which unfortunately last because of the difficulty we are encountering in the face of this pandemic. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I can understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we disagree with the principles of the Fifth Republic, but it cannot be said that this government has not come before national representation on many occasions, to debate at length the measures proposed for your vote and to report on them. It is neither exceptional nor abnormal, but it has done so and I would like to remind you of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u357	It's called democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u358	Current epidemiological forecasts suggest that it is possible or even likely that autumn will be complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u359	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u360	It does not seem to me to be an attack on the separation of powers or on Parliament's prerogatives that your vote today should define a legal framework that will last until the end of the year, hoping that through vaccination, things will go a little better and that once we leave an extremely complicated period, we will be able to find ourselves and define a new, more peaceful legal framework – hopefully again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, I have requests to speak from every bench. Some groups are even able to offer three speakers! They will understand that I cannot give them the floor three times. I will give the floor to one speaker per group and two Members who are not registered, and I will ask each speaker to speak for one minute, not two, otherwise we will not be able to stand. I ask all of you to abide by this rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u362	How about thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u363	Or just two words, while we're at it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u364	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u365	In essence, this issue is anything but partisan, since it is members of every bench who simply want to exercise their responsibilities, vote the laws and monitor the action of the Government. A re-visit clause every three months would be of great interest to allow us to take stock and, in the coming months, to prefer anticipation to reaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u366	He, too, received the nomination On the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u367	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u368	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Secretary of State, the Government is not a 110-metre-hedge runner for whom the Assembly would be a hedge to cross. We are not obstacles: on the contrary, we are here to allow you to do the best you can. There are two reasons for voting on these amendments, and I ask you to think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Recently, President Braun-Pivet said she insisted that black on white in the law that the sanitary pass could not be required at the entrance to restaurants or cinemas, that it was a matter of public freedoms. You claim to have changed your mind because of the evolution of the epidemic situation – I think above all that you obey the President of the Republic, but let us admit. Accept at least one three-month re-visit clause, especially if you think the situation is extremely dangerous. This is also true from a health point of view. We can all at least agree that we don't know the new variant. The Prime Minister explained that from now on, the vaccine will no longer be considered contact cases of someone who has had the covid: is it sure that in three months, this will still be true?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u369	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel; The rule of speaking time is binding on all. Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u370	I am all the more comfortable talking about the time frame for the state of health emergency that my group had already asked for a month earlier than was originally planned. We proposed at the end of September, saying that we were available at any time. Secondly, Mr Schellenberger, who is not far away, knows that at four o'clock a quarter in the morning, we adopted an amendment in committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u371	Yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u372	...following Olivier Veran's commitment that there will be several parliamentary debates by 31 December, and we will ensure that this commitment is respected. I recall that parliamentarians could not impose a timetable on the Government, and that was the only way to ensure that there were re-visit clauses. The Minutes attest to this, and we will be careful to do so, and I imagine that Members on all benches will exercise the same vigilance. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] It is certainly not perfect, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Republicans, you know the Constitution and its limits even better than I do. I, too, support a stronger Parliament. Besides, there will be a conference of presidents and I imagine...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u373	Thank you, Mr. Vigier. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u374	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC and FI groups]] Mr rapporteur, you have a complete sense of self-determination: this is not a debate like any other! This is a major political gesture, as you have noticed it is coming from every bench, even from those of your majority. It is a gesture of cohesion and respect for Parliament, in a debate which, whatever its conclusion, will lead to a very critical situation for the French when they return from their holidays and when they return to work. Why don't you do politics?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u375	All right, Mr. Wulfranc!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u376	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u377	The question is not partisan indeed: this is the second time that we have met to discuss a text on the way out of the health crisis and each time the dates have given rise to debates, each coming with its proposal. In this case, I think it is necessary to maintain the date of 31 December, which gives us a perspective for this autumn, when, as Cédric O has just explained, the epidemic is likely to progress strongly, making the mechanisms that we are going to vote for indispensable. In addition, we found a compromise with our MODEM colleagues who yesterday proposed, by way of amendment, a strengthened Government control mechanism, whereby the implementation of all these provisions will be discussed every month. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, we will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u378	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u379	It is clear, Mr. Secretary of State, that the question is not partisan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u380	Not partisan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u381	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] It is a question of democracy. It is a question of what conception of democracy we want to defend. We were a number of people who were quite offended to hear you say in committee that, since Parliament had chosen to keep its hands on certain points rather than leave them to the regulatory power, it had to decide quickly. Who are you to address such invectives to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u382	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u383	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC and FI groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] I would remind you that you are subject to Parliament's scrutiny on the one hand. On the other hand, when I hear you playing the oracle, it doesn't reassure me too much. "Maybe," "we'll see well," "we don't know," "we're hoping": that's not the way to reassure us at all. So let Parliament do its job. We were elected for this and I would ask you to respect the representatives of the nation we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u384	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u385	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I would just like to point out that the period of the next six months, for which you are asking for a state of health emergency, is not quite a period like the others, since something important for democracy is going to happen: it is called a presidential campaign. Yes! It concerns not only me, ladies and gentlemen, but also many candidates from your ranks. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The fact that we will be officially in the presidential campaign makes Parliament's control even more necessary because, as you know, the state of emergency in the health sector allows for measures that limit freedom of movement and freedom of assembly, until confinement. It seems to me that the principle of a re-visit clause is the least of all, especially in a period of presidential campaigning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u386	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u387	I do not believe that it is healthy, in a democracy, that Parliament should be disbanded from its prerogatives. The text plans to postpone the end of the health crisis management regime and the application of the health pass until 31 December 2021, when they were originally to stop until 30 September 2021: it is far too long. [[Applause on several benches of the LT and FI groups]] With these amendments, we propose that these measures be extended for only one more month, that is, until 31 October 2021: this seems to me quite sufficient, because at some point we must return to the rule of law. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u388	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u389	It is not a question of controversy: beyond everyone's position on the health pass, it is important for Parliament to take up the matter and, quite simply, to do its job, which is not only to vote the law, but also to monitor the action of the Government. As long as the crisis is not over, we will meet in the Chamber as often as necessary to discuss and adjust the strategy to combat the virus. However, for this to happen, we must be seized on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u390	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u391	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I find it really difficult to understand the postponement from September to December that you are proposing, Secretary of State. You make no clear reason, and there is no real reason to prolong the health emergency unless you think that the Government's vaccination policy is a failure. If the vaccination campaign were real and had been launched in due course, we would not be there! We still have two months ahead of us. However, France is the fourth country in Europe in terms of people fully vaccinated, behind Spain, Italy and Germany: it is neither to our honour nor to the Government. Postponing the end of the crisis management regime and the application of the health pass to 31 December is proof of the failure of the vaccination policy: keep the date of 30 September!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u392	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u393	[[Applause on several benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] The question was not whether the Government should come back to Parliament to debate or keep it informed, but whether parliamentarians agreed to divest themselves of their constitutional prerogatives for the benefit of the executive. Personally, I do not want to divest myself of it for more than three months, a period that seems reasonable to all of us. Coming back in three months to present its strategy, which we can discuss and take action on, is the responsibility of the Government: it is a question of democracy, not a question of health emergency – this aspect is quite manageable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u394	President Ferrand and the Vice-Presidents were anxious that everyone could speak, in order to avoid any ambiguity on this point: that is done, and you will be able to appreciate it and repeat it! But we will not repeat this on every amendment, ladies and gentlemen. I shall now put this series of amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u395	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 495, 562 and 769.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u396	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 270 Number of votes cast 263 Absolute majority 132 For adoption 130 Against 133
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u397	It's going to end badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u398	It's not very clever to applause!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u399	In order to avoid having to count the votes at length, as I have just done, I call on the group chairmen to ask for public ballots on this type of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u400	That's what we're gonna do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u401	I would like to insist, ladies and gentlemen: the counting of votes in each amendment implies a margin of error – which everyone can understand – and makes us waste time. I therefore call again on the group presidents to request public ballots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u402	[[Applause on a few benches. – Exclaims on many benches. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure allows you, in case of doubt, to decide for yourself to proceed to a public vote: you do not have to wait for a group chairman to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u403	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] [[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is normal for the chair of the Law Committee, whom I thank, to remind us of the law. She simply forgot that I can no longer request a public vote once I have started voting, which I have just done. But she's an excellent lawyer, so we're going to check this out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u404	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u405	[[Exclaims on the banks of the Dem group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In view of the possibility offered by Rule 64, which has just been recalled by the Chair of the Committee on Laws and knowing that you could not, Mr President, guess before the vote that the votes would be as tight, would it be possible, with the agreement of the Chair of the Committee, to make a slight breach of our Rules of Procedure and to hold a public vote on the last amendments put to the vote? Again, you could not guess that the votes would be so tight, Mr. Chairman. We therefore ask you to proceed to a public vote, as the chairman of the committee has just proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u406	[[Smile]] Mrs Fiat wanted to exegete a regulation that the President is familiar with. This famous article 64 – which reminds me of the most beautiful of the departments – provides that the presiding officer may conduct a public poll when a test is declared doubtful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u407	But you couldn't guess!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u408	By definition, I cannot anticipate the elections. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor for another point of order – then we move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u409	I'm not trying to block the progress of the debates, Mr. President! Just a minute to point out that what just happened is indicative of the state of tension that exists in this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u410	Thanks to who?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u411	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Although the majority inflated their troops to be present, only three votes allowed the amendments to be rejected. Then the Chair of the Law Committee, in a certain way, called the presiding officer to order. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] All of this shows that under these conditions, we will not be able to complete the review of the text within the time limits set by the Government. It is nineteen hours and more than 1,000 amendments remain to be considered: I think it would be wise to convene the Conference of Presidents now to see that we will not be able to work in good conditions. Let's work until midnight and start again tomorrow morning at nine o'clock, in a normal session, which means that we'll have to shift...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u412	Thank you, Mr. Gosselin. I did not experience the intervention of the committee chair as a call to order, otherwise I would have answered her. Let's get back to the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u413	We come to Amendments Nos 496 and 497, which can be presented together. [[Smile]] On Amendment No 496, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, whom I thank – this is the first time! – a request for a public ballot. In view of the experience of the last votes, I propose that Amendment No 497 should also be voted on in public. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u414	These two amendments by Jean-Christophe Lagarde are based on the same logic of favouring reward rather than sanction. The first is to ensure that vaccinated persons are no longer subject to any restrictions such as confinement or curfew; The second is that, should certain establishments be subject to closure measures again, they do not concern those whose entire staff would be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u415	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u416	From a strictly health point of view, I do not quite understand them: vaccinated people are not the only ones whose contagiosity is less. Those who are not sick, or who have healed, do not transmit the virus. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u417	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u418	Unless I am mistaken, these amendments from the UDI Group and independents are intended to create a vaccination passport, i.e. to reserve the exercise of certain freedoms only for those who are vaccinated, excluding those who are immune or whose screening test proves to be negative. We have refused to do so from the outset, both for substantive reasons and for legal reasons: in its opinion on this bill, the Council of State has made clear that, in order to remain within the limits of constitutionality, the measures provided for must relate to a health pass and not to a vaccination passport. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u419	I put to the vote Amendment No. 496.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u420	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 251 Number of votes cast 246 Absolute majority 124 For adoption 62 Against 184
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u421	I put to the vote Amendment No 497.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u422	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 240 Number of votes cast 237 Absolute majority 119 For adoption 55 Against 182
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u423	I have before me three amendments, Nos 564, 738 and 618, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 564, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. On Amendment No 618, I have a request of the same order from the groups La France insoumise and Libertés et territoires. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 564.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u424	The aim of this amendment by the Socialist and Related Group is to abolish the extension of the health pass as it appears in the bill. The mechanism proposed by the Government would be inapplicable: the actors on the ground, though benevolent, tell us. As the text stands, the deadlines granted to our fellow citizens are not sustainable, because of the lack of consistency with the means deployed to speed up vaccination: that is why, with the withdrawal amendment No 606, we will propose to postpone the entry into force of the health pass until 15 September. In addition, delegating the legitimate mission to control the other party to one part of the population would be neither operational nor desirable in the light of potential tensions. No measures are planned to ensure the protection of the controllers or that of the controllers. Fight against the spread of the virus, yes; keep establishments open, yes; But there is no need for a new mechanism developed in haste, when the current arrangements are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u425	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 738.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u426	It aims to remove the provisions for extending the health pass. I had already opposed its creation, whereas its use was only intended for major events; I do not imagine a company in which personal data would have to be provided to take a coffee or go to the cinema.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u427	He's very good, this congressman of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u428	I personally support the vaccine: it is a great tool, which protects from covid-19. Others think the opposite; This is their freedom of conscience, since it is undeniably their own intimacy, their own health. The enlargement of the health pass will divide our compatriots into their daily lives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u429	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u430	... where citizens will have to control other citizens in order to prohibit them or allow them to enter a place receiving from the public, based on data related to their health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u431	Here again, very right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u432	Most of all, I'm afraid we're getting used to what we all thought was unimaginable a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u433	On Amendment No 738, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 618.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u434	For ten days now, ladies and gentlemen, there has been no room for reflection. Earlier, the Secretary of State rested the terms of this debate as the Government hears: the health pass or reconfinition, the health pass or curfew. Your strategy is limited to expanding vaccination; While the return to school will take place in a few weeks, nothing else is planned – no air purifiers, for example. I tell you quite clearly, Secretary of State: given what you are doing, I am very afraid that we will be entitled to both the health pass and curfew, the health pass and the re-defining! [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, the monarch has spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u435	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u436	[["That's not true! »on the benches of the LaREM group]] It doesn't matter if he said exactly the opposite of what he had said a few weeks earlier about the sanitary pass and the vaccine! Other European countries have already vaccinated 100% of people at risk; Your policy is not to differentiate between a healthy 12-year-old and an octogenary with co-morbidity. Worse, in order to make the French swallow your sanitary pass, you distribute poisoned gifts, you play with their health! The Prime Minister announced at the mid-day that vaccinees with a contaminated person would no longer be considered contact cases. In the United Kingdom, 40% of hospitalized patients had received both doses of vaccine! [[Exclaims on a few benches of the Dem Group]] The sanitary pass, you will also announce, will dispense from wearing the mask: what guarantees us that vaccination prevents transmission of the virus? Admittedly, the vaccine limits contagiosity, as it reduces the risk of developing a serious form of the disease; But to bet on him to the point of no longer paying back the PCR tests, while he does not protect against the virus and the WHO repeats that we have to test again and again, is irresponsible. I finish, Mr. President: in space...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u437	Thank you, Mr. Quatennens. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u438	The extension of the health pass must first be used to step up the fight against covid-19. Indeed, even if zero risk does not exist, the probability of being contaminated like that of transmitting the virus is greatly reduced by being vaccinated or restored, not to mention those who have just obtained a negative test result. A study published on 13 July by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) of the social ministries thus indicates that of all PCR tests carried out in the week of 28 June 2021, only 6% of the positive results and 4% of the symptomatic cases concerned persons fully vaccinated, while the non-vaccinated accounted for 80% of the positive results. In its opinion of 6 July 2021, the Scientific Council notes that unvaccinated persons contribute disproportionately to the spread of the virus: they are 12 times more likely to transmit it than the vaccinated. Therefore, in so far as it fulfils the objective of constitutional protection of health contained in the eleventh preambular paragraph of the 1946 Constitution, the extension of the health pass is necessary, adapted and proportionate. Necessary: the situation continues to deteriorate, epidemiologists predict a fourth particularly strong wave. Adapted: The aim is to preserve the activities affected by previous measures to combat the epidemic and to benefit those who are at least at risk of transmitting the virus. Proportionate:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u439	A little conviction, Mr. Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u440	... the mechanism, limited in time, regulated by Article II of Article 1 of the Law of 31 May 2021 on the management of the exit from a health crisis, violates the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons not holding the health pass only in a measured and justified manner. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u441	It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u442	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u443	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I would like to take this opportunity to clarify what I said earlier. Is the health pass a guarantee that we will never have to take further restrictive measures, ad vitam æternam? The answer is very clear: no.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u444	Earlier, you said the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u445	What we are certain of, on the other hand, is that very short-term measures should be taken. France is not alone in this case: see what is happening in Spain and Portugal,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u446	In Spain, 100% of the elderly are vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u447	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... the ongoing reflection in Italy on the question of the health pass, the measures currently being taken in Germany. The epidemic must therefore be curbed. Compulsory vaccination or not, we are not able to vaccinate 20 million French in two weeks, even at the maximum rate: if the delta variant or new variants are necessary, the possibility of further measures in a month or two is not excluded. On the other hand, once again, there is no doubt that such measures will become inevitable in two or three weeks' time if the health pass does not immediately enter into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u448	I shall give the floor to two speakers, in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mrs Fiat, you will speak later, as will Mr Jumel! I have nothing against either of you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u449	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u450	... but some of our colleagues had already shown up, quite correctly indeed – for once Mr Rebeyrotte did not scream! I give him the floor, and I will give it to Mr Blanchet, who has been asking for it for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u451	That's two speakers against the amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u452	Mr President, I never scream: I speak! [[Exclaims on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] Three months ago, like many of you, I was opposed to the generalisation of the health pass, for lack of a solid alternative solution for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u453	It's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u454	Macron's been talking ever since.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u455	Today, there is one: the vaccine. I heard someone say that we encouraged vaccination. That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u456	There are no more vaccines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u457	Immunisation is the best way to escape from new and very restrictive measures, the tool that is essential for people to break the deadlock. Since it will inevitably spread over time, immediate measures are needed: we therefore take them, but we advocate vaccination!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u458	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u459	An ancient from La République on the march!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u460	We have previously voted for a sanitary pass that has been applied for 15 days in all P-type establishments, i.e. clubs and gambling clubs. My question is simple: is this health pass the same as the one we are discussing today? Some hotel unions have announced that the establishments would not have to carry out identity checks. This does not bother me, but it is already a variant of the health pass voted three months ago and applied today in the P-type establishments: it makes it mandatory to check the identity document, in addition to checking the negative serological status, and obliges customers to scan the code of the establishment to which they are going. Is the sanitary pass we are discussing today this one? If that's the case, it's all right. If, on the contrary, the new sanitary pass makes it possible to derogate from the identity checks, as announced by the hotel unions this afternoon, it will probably not disturb the day but the problem will arise at night in the N-type establishments, the beverage outlets, which are subject to a late derogation between one hour and five in the morning: the variant will spread there. So my question is simple: what kind of health pass are we talking about right now in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u461	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u462	The Secretary of State will answer you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u463	I put to the vote Amendment No. 564.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u464	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 250 Number of votes cast 242 Absolute majority 122 For adoption 74 Against 168
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u465	I put to the vote Amendment No 738.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u466	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 247 Number of votes cast 243 Absolute majority 122 For adoption 76 Against 167
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u467	I put to the vote Amendment No. 618.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u468	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 251 Number of votes cast 237 Absolute majority 119 For adoption 64 Against 173
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u469	I have before me a number of identical amendments, Nos 615, 651, 786 and 844, on which the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 615.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u470	The La France insoumée group opposes the extension until 31 December 2021 of the transitional regime for exiting the health crisis. This regime was provided for by the Law of 31 May 2021 on the management of the exit from health crisis and was to apply until 30 September 2021. A real grey area between the ordinary law and the state of emergency, it gives the Government almost the same powers as it has during the state of emergency. The health pass constitutes only an additional restriction of French freedoms and a real danger in the protection of personal data. We are opposed to the perpetuation of this so-called exit regime, which is only a state of health emergency bis, and to the vertical conception of the power that is contemplating Parliament – excuse me for disturbing some of you, who are in the middle of a conversation! – as a board of record of decisions taken in defence counsel. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u471	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this session is televised. Perhaps I should have made that clear, but many of you know that. So we have to offer each other the best spectacle of democracy – I said one and the other! Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor to support Amendment No. 651.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u472	It aims to underline the need to respect the role of Parliament: to control, propose and, first and foremost, to represent the people. It is indisputably important, in the serious situation we are going through, that parliamentarians study every measure and every change in the laws that govern our rights and freedoms – all the more so as, for a year of health crisis, the texts follow each other and the rules change. Citizens expect their elected representatives to represent them when crucial decisions are made. Parliament's involvement in decisions related to the crisis would make it possible to debate calmly and to establish a sense of pedagogy rather than dictatorship. The Government's reversals, with the spread of contradictory information in recent months, have heightened the fears of some of the population, often the most precarious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u473	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 786.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u474	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on various other benches]] The health pass definitively creates segregation between individuals in our country and ends equal access to care. I will quote just one example: Mrs S., who called me this morning, suffered from a relapse of breast cancer. Out of chemotherapy in May, she has to undergo a check-up in early August. But if she is not vaccinated, she will not be able to access the public hospital to undergo this control!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u475	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u476	That's not true! This is absolutely not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u477	What a shame to say things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u478	Mr Millienne, I trust the rapporteur and the Secretary of State to respond when they have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u479	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u480	Yes, totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u481	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] Mrs. S. was desperate this morning because she received an e-mail from her doctor! I want to make a difference between what you think you are voting and the reality of the country, but open your eyes and look what you are doing to the French citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u482	[[Laughs]] Let us not spoil our pleasure: Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support Amendment No 844.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u483	I have a different concern with Article 1, which I have read all the paragraphs: there is no guarantee that the health pass could not be diverted – especially if its use is prolonged – from its primary purpose, health protection. In particular, there is no reason to state with certainty that it could not be required to exercise its civil rights and go to vote. You'll tell me that this idea looks crazy: in this case, reassure the citizens. I have tabled an amendment to make it clear that the sanitary pass cannot be required in this case, because we hear a little music... [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is tempting to wonder if there would be a political blow there. It's not about being antivax or provax, it's more complicated than that. As a matter of chance, the elderly population, who had already been vaccinated, voted in numbers and would rather be in favour of the Government in place. Surprisingly, young people vote very little, even if they are entertained with youtubers who make gallipettes, and are themselves unlikely to develop a serious form of covid. Prove to me that I am wrong and that this is not a political coup to establish segregation among the population in view of 2022! And accept my forthcoming amendment, introducing an additional article after Article 1, which proposes that the health pass should never be required to exercise its civil rights in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u484	[[Applause on many benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Son-Forget spoke less than two minutes and I was obliged to give him the floor. I repeat, however, that we are in a period of crisis; families have been bruised. Some French people are watching us right now on television. Our responsibility, whatever our votes, is to offer at least the spectacle of a peaceful democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u485	You have the floor for a point of order, Mr Rebeyrotte,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u486	For appeasement, it's missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u487	...but I will interrupt you immediately if you do not respect the rule that governs our debates either.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u488	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [["This is not a point of order! » on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you for your appeasement, Mr. President. On the basis of Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure, I would like to clarify things on behalf of our group: we absolutely condemn Mrs Wonner's remarks. Our fellow citizens can indeed question the situation of our assembly: last Saturday, Mrs.Wonner made remarks aimed at inciting violence and endangerment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u489	I'm sorry, Mr. Rebeyrotte. I can agree with you on the substance, but your intervention is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u490	Yes, for personal reasons!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u491	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your interest too is that the debates take place as calmly as possible. If they are to be reminded of their responsibilities to the members of the opposition, I would also remind them of those of the majority. I see that President Castaner agrees with me, and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u492	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u493	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I have already given my opinion: it is unfavorable. As for Mrs Wonner's comments, I do not want to answer them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u494	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u495	The Government is obviously opposed to these amendments. I would also like to say that it would be desirable to find appeasement in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u496	It's not up to you to tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u497	I am speaking to the French, as is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u498	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u499	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I believe that we cannot disinform them within this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u500	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u501	[[Members of the LaREM and Dem groups as well as many members of the Action ens, IDU-I and LT groups rise and applaud]] There is already enough disinformation on social networks and elsewhere! Really, I'm telling you, MP, we're not misinforming here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u502	Well done, soothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u503	Let the minister delegate speak, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u504	[[Exclaims on various benches]] As far as access to the hospital is concerned, in case of care scheduled in advance – are you listening to me? – a person who does not meet the conditions for vaccination has time to carry out a test before his or her visit, which allows him or her to protect others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u505	The answer is not terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u506	[[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens]] If you let me finish it, it would be much better! And in case of emergency, there is obviously no need for a sanitary pass. That's the real information, and it's the only one you can find that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u507	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor for a point of order, but I will not hesitate to cut you off for a moment if your speech is not linked to our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u508	[[Hued on several benches of the LaREM group]] This point of order is related to the personal attack on me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u509	He was your colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u510	The personal history I have revealed shows you once again, colleagues, that you are totally out of the ground and that there is a gulf between what you want to vote and the reality of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u511	We come back to the identical amendments, on which I have two requests for the floor, from Mrs Caroline Fiat and Mr Philippe Vigier. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u512	One word before going back to the substance of the amendment: the caregivers – as you know, I went back to work as a caregiver during the first, second and third waves – after having heard for several weeks that they were going to make patients sick, now hear that they would refuse to treat them! We caregivers have broad shoulders, but don't put too much on them, because at some point they're going to give in. We, the caregivers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u513	You don't represent caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u514	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... and all of you here, the 577 elected representatives who represent us, who represent what is most beautiful in France, that is, the public hospital, you know that we, the caregivers, are here to protect and treat you. Please stop! I'm going in your direction, stop booing! You don't hear or understand what I'm telling you! It's terrible, you're not listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u515	Mrs. Fiat, you don't have much time left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u516	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The delegate minister nods her head as a sign of consent]] I am speaking on the amendment! I am sure that the minister in charge understands very well what I am saying: a resident or patient is being cared for by a caregiver, who does not ask her whether or not he is being vaccinated before taking care of it. That's what I was saying. That's exactly what I just said and I don't understand why you booed me! In short, the aim of these amendments is to say that until 31 May... Anyway, you don't listen, you just proved it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u517	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u518	[[Applause on various benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups, as well as on a few benches of the GDR group]] A word too, quickly since Deputy Minister Brigitte Bourguignon has re-established things. I would like to say to our colleague Wonner that in our beautiful France we are treating people. Anyone who arrives in a hospital is treated there. The medical community is generous and professional; She saved so many lives! You don't have the right, because you're a doctor, to say what you said! You have no right to incite to invade parliamentary permanences! No! I'm telling you with strength! [[Same moves. – Mrs Martine Wonner brandished the Assembly's Rules of Procedure]] Mrs. Wonner, I lost my brother, doctor of the health reserve, because of the covid-19! If you're an antivax, I don't care, but please don't say that, not here in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u519	I don't know what's going on in this house, or more precisely, I guess. Mr Vigier, you could imagine that by intervening in this way, you would immediately provoke Mrs Wonner's reaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u520	We're not allowed to say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u521	The minister delegate has given a strong and balanced answer – I don't have to qualify it, but if it allows me to do so, it says so. That's enough! I will not give you the floor, Mrs. Wonner; We're going to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u522	I also ask for the floor for a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u523	Mr Gosselin, our relations are old and of good quality: I prefer that we continue the debate, otherwise we will see a point of order competition. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u524	No, I keep my point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u525	No, Mr. Gosselin, I can't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u526	I'm entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u527	Either; I know you're entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u528	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u529	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our relations, Mr. President, will not be initiated. I think it would be good to take a little break to calm the spirits. I'm asking for a short suspension, only five minutes, to break the rhythm. I believe that Members of the majority and other groups need to regain their minds a little. No, I'm not accusing anyone! Don't get me wrong! In the collective interest, it would be good to take five minutes of a break.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u530	You are absolutely right, even if we are close to the end of the session. However, we are bound by the announcement of the public election. We shall proceed to the vote on the four identical amendments; Then, with everyone's approval, we will suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u531	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 615, 651, 786 and 844.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u532	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 235 Number of votes cast 215 Absolute majority 108 For adoption 31 Against 184
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u533	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u534	The meeting was resumed. I have before me seven amendments, Nos 702, 5, 42, 606, 20, 498 and 36, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 5, 42 and 606 are identical. On Amendment No 702, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 702.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u535	Our discussions seem to be calm; We must also calm the concerns of our fellow citizens. This is the purpose of the common sense amendment presented by the Socialist and Related Group. It aims to make the health pass compulsory after a reasonable period of time, sufficient for all to be vaccinated. We are on vacation: we must postpone the entry into force of the scheme to 1 October, that is, six weeks – the time needed for vaccination to be complete – after the announcements of the President of the Republic. Otherwise, we will run the risk of a break in equality between our fellow citizens, as shown by our discussions and those on social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u536	On the identical amendments Nos 5, 42 and 606, the Socialist and related groups and the Republicans have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u537	It is intended to amend the date of entry into force of the sanitary pass. Firstly, because the date entered provides for retroactive effect, which has no meaning and cannot have legal consequences; Secondly, because the application of the scheme was announced on 12 July: the French should be given time to be vaccinated, taking into account the delays in obtaining an appointment, which had increased significantly, and a new shortage of vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u538	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u539	You want to impose the sanitary pass on France. The aim of this amendment is to postpone its entry into force until 15 September. Indeed, the French are trapped. The President of the Republic finally took the floor on 12 July to encourage the French to receive more vaccination; Now that they need to think more seriously about it, they are required to have received two doses to activate the pass, but they will not have enough time to do so before the summer. I therefore propose that you delay the application of the scheme until 15 September.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u540	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No 606.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u541	This is a fallback amendment. No 702 was intended to enter the date of 1 October, with it we propose to choose 15 September. It gives me the opportunity to revisit the obligation to present a sanitary pass at the entrance to different types of establishments receiving from the public. The Prime Minister said today that the managers will be responsible for checking its validity, but that they will not verify the identity of those who will present it. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] The cure is worse than evil! All you have to do is lend yourself a pass, free of charge or for remuneration. In addition, this will allow the mask to be removed. You see what I'm getting at. We won't check the health pass, and everyone will be able to borrow the pass from their brother, boyfriend, neighbor or grandmother! You simply invent a tool that will lead to the multiplication of clusters. If you don't give it up, it's not the right solution. Abandon this inefficient and potentially very dangerous idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u542	On Amendment No 20, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u543	It is of the same nature as the previous ones and is simply intended to postpone the entry into force of the sanitary pass until 2 September 2021, since the Government and the majority remain straight in their boots. It is a matter of giving our fellow citizens a reasonable time to get the second injection of vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u544	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 498.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u545	In this joint discussion, the objective of IDU-I members differs slightly from that of previous speakers. The aim is to set a consistent date for the implementation of the text and therefore for the extension of the health pass, namely 8 August. This would allow time for parliamentary debate, promulgation and a possible decision by the Constitutional Council, if it were to have all or part of the text before it. The bill provides for 2 June. We are therefore asked to vote for the prior extension of the health pass in order to make legal a decree published and supposed to enter into force yesterday, but which has no legal basis to date. This is not consistent either at the legislative or the political level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u546	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u547	According to the same logic, it is intended to replace the date of 2 June 2021 with that of the enactment of the law. I share Mr.Brindeau's concerns: the reference to June 2, 2021 will authorize the retroactive application of Orders in Council. Given the seriousness of the bill we are considering and its possible consequences for all French people, such retroactivity is not desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u548	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u549	Yesterday, the number of contaminations was 18,000, compared to 17,000 the day before yesterday. Should we wait until 15 September, or another date, to bring this mechanism into force?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u550	There's a delay between the two injections!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u551	I don't think so. We are engaged in a race against the clock with the delta variant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u552	What about the delay between the first and second dose?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u553	The fears and misunderstandings raised are legitimate; We hear them. We are at the beginning of the process. The Government has announced that the measure will not be applied in a rigid manner as soon as this Act is promulgated. The health pass system entered into force on 2 June; with the lowering of the gauge, its progressive deployment continues. I've been talking about a race against the clock, not a rush. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u554	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u555	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I confirm that the Government does not intend to subject LES personnel to the health pass obligation until 30 August 2021. Tonight – this may have escaped some – Olivier Véran said we were going to speed up the delivery of doses to vaccination centres, especially in those who do not propose appointments for a few days or weeks, due to the lack of vaccines available. We will ensure that they can quickly open new slots. Thus, the date of 30 August will be more credible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u556	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u557	The French who look at us must be stunned: we are talking about voting a law whose promulgation can be estimated on 8 August, when it was to apply on 2 June. This means that Parliament is of no use! The President of the Republic spoke: he said the opposite of what he had said on 30 April, that there would never be a health pass in everyday life or discrimination between the French. Mr. Véran had stated here that the pass would never be requested below 1000 people. Mr. Beaune had stated that there would be no recourse to a health pass as a factor of discrimination. You're doing exactly the opposite of what you said. In addition, you apply an almost retroactive measure, by means of a decree without a legal basis. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] What democracy do we live in? If Putin did this, you'd scream! If Trump had done this, you would have yelled! If another head of state did so, you'd be indignant! It's just an assembly of pacifiers! The President of the Republic makes a surrealist statement and you press the button! Moreover, as Mrs Pires Beaune was quite right to say, the measure is inapplicable; false QR codes will circulate everywhere, causing a risk of clusters. We have an extraordinary Minister of Health, who says that the mask can be removed when you are vaccinated, when he said exactly the opposite one evening in May, in response to a Member of Parliament who proposed that the entrance of the nightclubs be made subject to the sanitary pass. You probably remember, Mr. Rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u558	The rapporteur has the selective memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u559	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... replying that it was impossible, since even vaccinated, we can transmit the virus. And you say exactly the opposite today! How can you constantly contradict what you said just two months ago? You say everything and its opposite: your Government no longer has any credibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u560	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u561	[["No, he doesn't know! » on the benches of the LR group]] Paragraph 5 begins with the following words: "From 2 June 2021 and until 31 December 2021 inclusive, the Prime Minister may, by decree [...]"; the rest of the text lists the various possible measures. Mr. Brindeau and Ms. Ménard have already asked the question: why "from 2 June"? It would be understood that the coming into force corresponds to the date of publication of this Act, but why on June 2, which has passed for almost fifty days? Can you answer that simple question, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u562	He'd better take care of the security of the President of the Republic's phone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u563	We cannot vote on paragraph 5 without an explanation on this point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u564	I put to the vote Amendment No. 702.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u565	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 221 Number of votes cast 205 Absolute majority 103 For adoption 68 Against 137
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u566	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 5, 42 and 606.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u567	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 224 Number of votes cast 206 Absolute majority 104 For adoption 72 Against 134
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u568	I put Amendment No. 20 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u569	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 222 Number of votes cast 204 Absolute majority 103 For adoption 70 Against 134
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u570	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-21-E1014.u571	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on the management of the health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
