ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u1	[[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government rise]] On 5 May, Éric Masson, a police brigadier, was killed in Avignon during an intervention on the public highway. A national tribute, under the presidency of the Prime Minister and in the presence of the Minister of the Interior, the keeper of the seals and a delegation of the National Assembly led by Mrs. Annie Genevard, is now being paid to this exemplary servant of the Republic. Once again, the national police paid a heavy price in the exercise of their mission to protect the French. On behalf of all of you, I salute Eric Masson's memory and extend our deepest condolences to his loved ones and colleagues. [[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government observe a minute of silence]] I invite you to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u2	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u3	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u4	Mr President, I would like to associate the Group of the European People's Party with the tribute that has just been paid to Eric Masson, and I am sure that all the groups will do the same, as they pay tribute to all the police officers, gendarmes and municipal policemen who are fighting every day to enforce the laws of the Republic on our streets. Eric Masson is unfortunately not! Not the only person who was murdered last week. Among these victims were Chahinez, struck, sprinkled with gasoline, burned alive by her husband. This is the thirty-ninth femicide since the beginning of the year in our country, a record that we had already reached in previous years. A woman dies every three days under the blows of her husband and how many shut up, out of fear or shame, unfortunately, in the behind doors of our apartments and houses? We have already done a lot, gentlemen and ministers. We set up 3919. We have the phone very dangerous, we have the remote bracelets. What did we miss? [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] What are the conclusions of the inspection mission which was carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice on this assassination? What else can we do so we can never see this again? Is there not something to be done, Mr Minister of National Education, in schools so that, from primary school onwards, we can, just as we learn to read and write, learn to respect the other, to domesticate his violence and so that, in our country, women and children will never again die under the blows of their husbands, companions or fathers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u5	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport. I would point out that Mr Blanquer is replacing this afternoon the Prime Minister who, as you know, is in Avignon. His speaking time when speaking in this capacity is therefore not limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u6	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u7	Mr Becht, the subject you have raised is one of the most important issues. As you said very well, it is followed very carefully by the Government – Marlène Schiappa at first and today Elisabeth Moreno – in a profound and effective way. First of all, I will respond to your inquiry as Minister of National Education. Indeed, prevention must begin. This is all we have done since the beginning of the quinquennium, with the competent ministers, to ensure that a series of actions are carried out on gender equality, starting with the prevention of violence. That is why I have prepared a text on this issue with the relevant ministers. It is just beginning to come into force, but it is intended to prevent, in particular because it is at school that prevention can be done, not only through the education of children, but also through school reports. It is also a subject on which I have worked a lot with the minister in charge of child protection. In addition, a series of measures have been taken, which I would like to recall here because, unfortunately, they are topical: ensuring the protection of victims of violence, with the opening of 1000 housing and accommodation solutions for women victims from 2020 – there will be 1000 more in 2021: this year there will therefore be 50% more places for women victims of violence than in 2017: this is obviously a very important and very concrete progress –; a better reception of victims in police stations and gendarmerie – we know very well that this is a major issue: how many women have not been taken seriously, when they signal a problem? We know that the last woman whose murder unfortunately is current was known as a potential victim of homicide. Today, 80 positions of social workers have been created, and the danger is better assessed through a single grid distributed throughout police stations and gendarmerie. Finally, the aim is to protect women through protection orders, the number of which has more than doubled since 2000, from 1400 to 3250. Here too, we have done better than double our ability to react. Finally, there is the clear inclusion in the law of the seizure of white arms and firearms of perpetrators of violence, from the outset of the investigation. Mobilization must continue in this area, because that is how crimes will be avoided. It is also necessary to judge more quickly and efficiently, with emergency channels in some 30 jurisdictions and the application by prosecutors of a firm criminal policy. There is, of course, a need to make use of new technologies as well. The anti-approach strap effectively keeps the attacker away from the victim by means of a geolocation system. It's a tool that has proven its worth abroad. A thousand bracelets have already been made available to the courts and have been deployed since 24 September 2020. It is therefore a continuing commitment. This will be the case with the switch to a 24-hour opening of telephone number 3919 as early as June. Combating violence against women also means fighting for more steps to better protect women. The possibility of filing complaints in hospitals will continue to spread beyond the 50 or so departments in which it already exists, as will the collection of evidence without filing a complaint. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] You can be assured that this is one of the priority causes of this government, a cause that obviously concerns the minister in charge of the matter, Elisabeth Moreno, but also all the members of the Government, and on which national education is fully mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u8	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u9	My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Since the beginning of April, Palestinians in East Jerusalem have been subjected to violent attacks by Israeli settlers, as well as by the police and the army. These clashes have already caused hundreds of injuries since Friday. You must have seen yesterday the esplanade of the mosques being the scene of a fire delighting an audience of exalted settlers. Violence is increasing in the rest of the West Bank. Minister, the lives of the Palestinians are important, but what we have been counting on in recent days are deaths: twenty Palestinians, including nine children, have been killed in Gaza by Israeli strikes. These tensions follow the mobilization against the eviction of four Palestinian families from the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood for the benefit of ultra-nationalist Israeli settlers. Every day, Palestinian residents were subjected to military violence and that of armed settlers. Sheikh Jarrah is located in East Jerusalem. This part of the city is considered by the United Nations as occupied territory. UN Security Council Resolution No. 478 presents Israel's annexation of this part of Jerusalem as a violation of international law. The UN reiterated that these evictions were contrary to international law and constituted war crimes – yes, war crimes! [[Applause on the banks of the GDRandFIgroups.–MM. BrunoJoncour,BertrandPancheretSébastienNadotapplaudalso]] UNICEF warns, the UN urges, but you, after remaining silent, embarrass us: shameful of a statement that seeks a so-called "balance" and forgets to condemn the policy of colonization and apartheid promoted by the Israeli government. As you know, the situation is likely to change very dangerously in the next few days. It can become terrible and the silence of our country is part of the impunity surrounding Israeli abuses. [[Same movements]] Mr Minister, peace cannot be achieved without justice: France must react and act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u10	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u11	Let me apologise to Jean-Yves Le Drian, who is selected by the discussion of the bill on development and international solidarity that is currently being discussed in the Senate. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] You speak of shame: forgive me, but these words are not appropriate given the constant involvement of France in trying to participate in the development of solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u12	I can't tell.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u13	Very clearly, France has always condemned the acceleration of this colonization process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u14	Convict him again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u15	What is happening today in the neighborhoods of Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan makes the two-state solution more difficult every day. [[Long protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] At the same time, yes, we strongly condemn the firing of rockets from the Gaza Strip, which targeted, inter alia, Jerusalem and several inhabited areas of Israeli territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u16	Show some courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u17	[[Same movements]] We also call very clearly on the Israeli authorities to use proportionate force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u18	We must condemn these attacks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u19	Yes, these tensions raise fears of a major escalation, and we call on all actors to hold back. [[Same movements]] What these events show is that there is a need for a political solution and from this point of view, we will never be behind the hand: France intends to remain on the initiative to help restore the conditions of peace. Jean-Yves Le Drian brought together on 11 March a format in this direction and I can tell you that, even if the task is arduous, alas! It calls for a lot of humility, we will not give it up: it is a strong commitment of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u20	Give us back Chirac!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u21	Zero applause!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u22	Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u23	My question is to the Minister responsible for citizenship; I would like to associate my colleague Bérangère Couillard, the rapporteur of the law to protect victims of domestic violence. Last Tuesday, in Mérignac, the second city of Gironde in my constituency, an unbearable tragedy occurred: Chahinez Daoud, 31, was killed by her husband. She was wounded twice by a gun, then burned alive in the street. Her neighbors and friends described her as a sweet and smiling woman, a loving and attentive mother. She leaves behind three children of 13, 8 and 5 years of age for whom I have a special thought today. Madam Minister Delegate, I thank you for coming to pay tribute to Mérignac for the work of our law enforcement officers who arrested the alleged murderer almost fifteen minutes after this horrific crime, but also for taking the time to discuss with the victim support associations who needed it after this horrific moment filled with emotion. The man implicated in this femicide – still one too many – was sentenced on 25 June 2020 to 18 months in prison, nine of which were suspended. On multiple occasions after his release, he violated the ban on appearing at his wife's home. The Government has made the fight against domestic violence a priority by generalizing the serious danger telephone and by providing the justice system with anti-apparel bracelets. Unfortunately, none of these tools have been used to help Chahinez. The keeper of the seals, the Minister of the Interior and you immediately undertook an inspection mission. Its conclusions, which will be known today, and I hope will be made public, will shed light on the responsibilities of everyone. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM groups, Take action in and LT and on some of the banks of the Dem group]] How does the Government intend to continue the fight against domestic violence and to strengthen the use of all available means to protect our fellow citizens so that fear finally changes sides?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u24	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u25	To begin with, I obviously want to have a thought for Shahinez who was 31 years old and for his three children who are now orphaned by mother. As you recalled, I went to Mérignac at the request of the President of the Republic and the Minister of the Interior to meet with the police – the anti-criminality brigade, the judicial police and the municipal police – who immediately intervened. They identified the children, told them, along with local elected officials and social services, the terrible news and sheltered them. They also identified and then arrested the perpetrator. I would like to pay tribute to their work. We then brought together the field associations, in the presence of you, Member of Parliament, and Mrs Bérangère Couillard, to whom I want to pay tribute for her work as legislator. The associations welcomed the efforts made by the law enforcement agencies in recent years. The keeper of the seals, the minister of the interior and I immediately decided to expedite a joint inspection mission because we refuse that in 2021, in France, men still think that they have the right to life or death over their wife or ex-wife, especially in the terrible circumstances that you recalled. Following the Grenelle des violences conjugales in which you participated, ladies and gentlemen, you have passed two laws that include strong measures including the removal of weapons from the filing of the complaint, the laying of anti-approach bracelets before the delivery of the judgment, the risk assessment grid that we have translated into fifteen languages. In addition, 75,000 police officers and gendarmes were trained; 355 social workers were made available in the gendarmerie and police stations. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group. -Mr. Olivier Bechtapplaudited]] You said, every femicide is a femicide of too many. We are – my colleague Elisabeth Moreno, the entire government, the deputies, the local elected representatives – all engaged in this fight that must go beyond the political divides to protect women and leave nothing behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u26	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u27	The broadcast of an electoral poster by a candidate from the Republic on the march in the departmental elections wearing the veil shocked the Republicans of all sides. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] In addition, we learn that the macroist candidate, today unveiled, if I may, is also vice-president of the Tabassam association, close to Tariq Ramadan. When one is a candidate in an election of the French Republic, one does not run behind a veil, one does not impose his religious choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u28	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u29	At a time when we are fighting against radical political Islam that threatens our republican values, mixing a presidential majority's candidacy with ostentatious religious signs necessarily arouses a suspicion of communal complacency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u31	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Fortunately, the delegate-general of La République en marche dissolidated himself from such a candidacy, claiming that it was contrary to the values of the presidential party. It was a necessary clarification However, many elected representatives and parliamentarians of the majority immediately condemned Mr. Guerini's reaction and supported the candidate, even if they defended the wearing of ostentatious religious signs on leaflets and election posters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u32	It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u33	Once again, this illustrates the profound division within the majority on the question of secularism, a division that was already evident in the consideration of the draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic and in the fight against separatism, particularly with regard to the prohibition of veils for girls or for school leavers. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] In the defense of secularism, there is no place for the "at the same time". For the Republicans, the answer is clear and unambiguous: religious neutrality must apply to the political sphere, as in the public service. [[Applause on the banks of the LR Group.–M. NicolasDupont-AignanetMsEmmanuelleMénardapplaudalso]] Prime Minister, what is the official position of the presidential majority? Do you intend to disassociate yourself from this candidacy and reaffirm that the defense of secularism cannot be the object of any accommodation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u34	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u35	As the Minister responsible for citizenship in the Ministry of the Interior, who, as you know, ensures the smooth running of the elections, I will answer you first in law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u36	It smells like "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u37	[[Other movements]] If the principle of neutrality precludes public officials or employees from demonstrating their religious belief, neither the jurisprudence nor the law extends such a prohibition to elected officials. A woman therefore theoretically has the right in France to wear a veil in public space.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u38	Like Mrs Boyer's cross!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u39	That's right. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Now, as far as politics is concerned, the political formations belonging to the Republican camp have always advocated a separation of religion and politics. As Martine Aubry said, with the approval of Jean-Luc Mélenchon at the time, when you are elected from the Republic, you represent everyone, and you do not need to show an ostentatious sign that belongs to the private domain although each one lives his religion as he sees fit. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on a few benches of the LR group]] Mr President, the presidential majority has no lesson in secularism on your part, as you were still treating the republican camp of Ayatollah with secularism a few years ago, because we were defending the 1905 law. Who's defending secularism here? Not you! It was the deputies of the presidential majority who worked on and adopted the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, at the request of President Emmanuel Macron. Mr President, what was your vote on this text?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u40	Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u41	[[Mr CharlesdeLaVerpillièrefaitlegestedemanierdesrames]] [[Applause on several banks in the LaREM group.–Ouéeson some banks in the LR group]] You voted against the law to defend secularism and the principles of the Republic. So you're not defending secularism. The presidential majority has absolutely no lesson to learn from a political party but one thing, according to Mr Ciotti, differentiates from the National Rally: the experience of governing. Secularity in action is the act of the President of the Republic and the presidential majority, certainly not of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u42	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u43	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] I was going to thank you for your answer, but I was dissuaded by the outburst of your words. We note the divisions within the majority and the total absence of a solution on secularism. It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u44	[[Mrs ClémentineSome people seem to be waiting for the Calmerevian in the Chamber.]] Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Go on. When the brouhaha comes from your ranks, it irritates you less. You have the floor, so take it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u45	What exactly are you president of?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u46	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u47	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Well, keep your remarks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u48	Keep yours, too, Mr. Mélenchon! Would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u50	Then go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u51	It is with the heart and the reason that I am speaking to you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and through you, it is the word of France that I am asking myself. Yesterday, Israeli fire killed at least 24 Palestinians, including nine children playing in the street. The list of victims is growing in the indifference of the international community, as if impotence were taking place, as if the back-to-back return of Palestinians and Israelis became the dominant narrative. Meanwhile, the establishment of Israeli settlements in the heart of the Palestinian territories of the West Bank aims to make Israel's control of Jerusalem irreversible. Meanwhile, access to running water continues to be restricted and Palestinians are deprived of vaccines and care in the midst of a health crisis. Meanwhile, international law is a little bit more trampled by Israel every day. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] However, in your statement yesterday, it is first of all rocket fire from the Gaza Strip that you condemn. By your voice, France is not angry, it does not demand anything, it expresses "its concern", it does not find the words to condemn the abuses of an army at the orders of an extreme right-wing government that aims to consolidate Israeli domination, the apartheid system. We don't talk in the same tone to the crashing boot and to the face that gets crushed. It always amounts to weighing all its weight on the boot. [[Applause on the banks of the FIand GDR groups.–M. BrunoJoncourapplauditedalso]] France no longer chooses its side, that of justice and law, the only one that can lead to lasting peace for the Palestinians and for the Israelis. France must change its tone and recognize the Palestinian state. It must clearly contribute to a political solution. What is the Government waiting for?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u52	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u53	He's not up to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u54	Building lasting peace is the goal of all. To achieve this, all actors on the ground must refrain from provocation. For us, things are clear: yes, forced evictions against residents of the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood in East Jerusalem are not in the right direction, as I said right now, they exacerbate tensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u55	Condemn them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u56	In the same way, we are very clear: we want to preserve the historical status quo on the esplanade of mosques.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u57	Condemn colonization!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u58	In this regard, yesterday's images, of course, have challenged us. Our commitment to building lasting peace is constant. It is so in the United Nations Security Council: on Monday, again, we have made it clear. It is because, as part of the format I mentioned earlier, we are in constant consultation with Germany and the powers able to talk to actors on the ground – I am thinking of Egypt and Jordan. Last night, Jean-Yves Le Drian met with his Jordanian counterpart. Consultations will continue early next week with the Egyptians who will be present in Paris for the Summit on Financing African Economies. We will continue tirelessly to look for ways to resume political dialogue. It has not escaped you either that the political situation on both sides is not stabilized. That won't make us give up. We will continue because of respect for international law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u59	There's an assaulted people and an aggressor power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u60	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u61	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Lemoyne seems to discover the press release at the same time as he reads it to us. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I'm telling you the bottom line of my thinking: you take initiatives over the phone, but what is France's spine today on the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u62	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u63	Last weekend, the European Social Summit was held in Porto. This is the second such meeting since the Gothenburg Summit in 2017. In these times of crisis of the Covid-19, the European social model has shown its relevance. In the long term, social Europe must enable us to meet the challenges of the ecological and digital transition. The Group of the Movement for Democracy and Related Democrats is convinced that protecting Europe, which is an objective dear to the President of the Republic, is more than ever a priority. We therefore welcome the adoption of the Porto Declaration, which reaffirms Europe's social ambition and calls for the adoption of the European Commission's action plan to implement the European Pillar of Social Rights. This social ambition is echoed in your co-signed gallery with the Minister of Labour who appeared on Sunday in Le Monde. If the summit has sent a strong political message, the French Presidency will nevertheless have to go further and ensure that measures are implemented. I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, how you intend to achieve the adoption of the legislative proposal on minimum wages in the first half of 2022. Despite its importance in the fight against unfair competition in our single market, the issue of minimum wages is met with reluctance expressed by countries in the north and east of the European Union. Moreover, our German partners seem to be less convinced of the relevance of social Europe than our Mediterranean neighbours – attest to the fact that Chancellor Merkel did not travel to Porto. How do you intend to define a common Franco-German position to advance our social ambition? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, social Europe responds to the expectations of the citizens. It would therefore be necessary to send them a strong message by increasing the frequency of these social summits. Are you planning to organise one during the French presidency of the Union?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u64	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u65	Hello! Hello!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u66	Last week, for the first time in almost four years, a European Social Summit was held, attended by the President of the Republic. Since the previous summit, the summit in Gothenburg, just after the speech of the Sorbonne by the President of the Republic, Social Europe, which has long been a slogan, has seen major progress. I will mention two of them, which are concrete and central: the reform restricting seconded work, which we must nevertheless continue – to be very precise, a text still under discussion will strengthen at European level the fight against fraud and mailbox companies – and the progress that the European Pillar of Social Rights represents, which Élisabeth Borne and I actively defend and which has enabled, for example, the recognition at European level of parental leave, of which many countries were deprived. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you said, we must, in the crisis, be proud of what our social model has been and still is. At a time when many are fascinated by President Biden's action, I would like to point out that it is in Europe that social support for the crisis has been the strongest and that the social model has been the most protective. We must be proud of that and repeat it over and over again. We will obviously have to pursue this ambition for the French Presidency of the European Union. Together with Élisabeth Borne, as well as the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister themselves, we have brought together the social partners before the Porto Summit and will continue this consultation throughout the coming months and during the French Presidency. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will mention a few priorities, because this social issue will obviously be at the heart of this presidency. First of all, there is finally a draft European directive aimed at creating – because this is not the case today – a decent minimum wage in all the countries of the Union, and I hope that we will be able to achieve it under the French presidency. I am also thinking, since we will then be in the post-crisis phase, of the rights of workers on platforms, Uber or Deliveroo deliverers who work in the streets of our cities and today have no social protection recognised by European texts. We'll work on it, too. We will also make progress on training and equal pay for men and women. These issues will be at the heart of the French Presidency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u67	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u68	Minister of the Sea, fishing in the English Channel is a matter of great concern. Hundreds of jobs are at stake and fishermen are at a standstill. Those of the Hauts-de-France are concerned, but even more so those around the Anglo-Norman Islands. For Jersey, the post-Brexit was marked by the lapse of the Granville Bay agreements, which followed agreements of 1839 – that is, their seniority! On April 30, only 41 of 344 boats were licensed – and again! with conditions that had never been discussed before. Last week, the tension went up again. On Wednesday, the United Kingdom dispatched two warships. Some 60 Norman and Breton fishermen, for their part, tried to raise awareness among the authorities of the island, but to no avail, and France in turn sent two patrollers off its coast. This is where we are: an explosive situation! Of course, issuing the licences that fishermen expect is not an option. The United Kingdom must emerge from its ambiguity. It has signed an agreement: if this agreement is not respected, France's response must be firm and clear, including by means of retaliatory measures, if necessary. But the question is also that of Jersey's sovereignty. Today, the British government can theoretically legislate on behalf of the island, but it has not done so since 1967. Jurists do not know whether this power still exists or not. Because of this constitutional mismatch, London must also try to persuade the Jersey authorities to find a compromise with France. In this context, France is therefore not prohibited from having bilateral relations with the States of Jersey. This is what some regions and departments are doing. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] Madam Minister, where are we with Europe, with the United Kingdom, but also, directly, with the States of Jersey?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u69	The Minister for the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u70	The cooperation agreement is difficult to implement. We have talked about this several times here, and last week I answered a question from your colleague Bertrand Sorre, reminding me of my position, saying in particular that the measures taken by Jersey were, I have, moreover, repeated several times, unacceptable both in form and substance. Back to the facts: On 30 April, Jersey issued 41 of the 266 licences to French vessels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u71	We have to defend the fishermen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u72	We find by the fishermen that no formal action has been taken, and that at the same time, a law taken by Jersey sets out additional technical restrictions. That is unacceptable, as we said immediately. I have alerted the European Commission to react and recall the terms of the agreement. Our position has always been as follows: the agreement, and just the agreement. Jersey, which is in its waters, can certainly legislate in this area, but the agreement recalls, however, that it must inform the European Commission, via London, so that the other parties, the European Commission and France, can react – this is what it is important to redefine. I exchanged yesterday with the European Commissioner, as I had committed myself to it, and with the UK Minister for Fisheries, to whom I recalled – you know my frankness, and some have talked a lot about it over the last week – that these measures were null and void, and that it was totally unfair to do so. I also recalled that, while we were all concerned about Jersey, I did not forget the Hauts-de-France and the question of fishing in the 6-12 nautical miles band. You are asking me where we are today: Jersey has just proposed that we postpone the technical restrictions to the end of July, in order to resume discussions in the coming hours. France will respond in writing and I will communicate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u73	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u74	I would like France to have sustained bilateral relations with the States of Jersey. This territory enjoys a very special status and it is necessary to take advantage of these historical relations. Of course, the European Union...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u75	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u76	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u77	Mr. Minister of Health, your government has announced a timetable for deconfinity that allows us to consider a gradual return to normal life. This timetable is necessary, but the method to maintain it still needs to be deployed. The scientific council warned you a few days ago, insisting on the need to exercise both caution and anticipation in order to succeed in the various stages. It must be listened to carefully, this time, so as not to duplicate the previous mistakes. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] First of all, we have to vaccinate. As the Scientific Council rightly points out, it is essential to raise the level of vaccinations to 500,000 per day, including during the spring weekends, to a figure of 35 million people who are first vaccinated by June. To do this, you have just opened vaccination widely today, but this enlargement must not be done to the detriment of the most fragile – more than 5 million people over the age of 60 are not yet vaccinated – or at the expense of particularly exposed professions – I am thinking of all those who are on the front line: the teachers and, of course, our gendarmes and police officers, mobilized on the ground and to whom we pay special tribute on this sad day. As such, the vaccination offered to police officers and gendarmes over the age of 55, decided on 15 April, must now be extended to all these personnel, without age conditions. Finally, this rise in vaccination...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u78	Targeting the most fragile first was therefore the right strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u79	...must be accompanied by a rigorous organisation around test campaigns. Testing is the key to success in preventing high levels of contamination and, in this regard, it is necessary to prepare and develop supervised self-selections in public places, schools, universities and workplaces. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] Minister, how are you contemplating reconciling a rise in vaccination with a priority for particularly exposed personnel and a massive self-test strategy to achieve a serene deconfinement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u80	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u81	Mr President, the health crisis is not over, as you know, but we are on our way out, as the Prime Minister reaffirmed yesterday. If we succeed, it is thanks to the efforts of all the French, who have followed massively the health instructions that were required of us, and thanks to all the personnel to whom you paid tribute. We live with the virus, but now we have the opportunity to protect ourselves from it thanks to the vaccine, of which 18 million French people have already been able to benefit. Today we will exceed the 8 million people who have received two doses, 15% of the adults in our country. At the end of the week, we will pass the 20 million vaccinees, as Olivier Véran reminded us. We made a choice by starting the vaccination campaign by our seniors and by those most at risk of contracting a serious form of the virus. This choice is now bearing fruit. The pressure on EHPADs has been greatly reduced and hospitalizations in the over 75s, of which 75% are vaccinated, have fallen drastically. We have done everything possible to ensure that the vaccines arrive in numbers and are packaged and delivered as soon as possible. To meet these people regularly, I can assure you that there is a great relief on their side. This has also allowed us to gradually extend the scheme to other audiences, always giving priority to the most fragile. Since yesterday, French people aged 50 and over can be vaccinated unconditionally. As of tomorrow, injections will be available to people over the age of 18. Our only objective is to allow the widest possible access and, above all, not to lose any dose. The conditions are in place to ensure that the full and unconditional opening to all adults begins on 15 June and, to facilitate vaccination for those under 55 years of age, we have contacted the High Health Authority about the Astra Zeneca vaccine to see if we can also target this age group. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] Safety is paramount and the vaccination campaign continues. The Government is working on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u82	Mr Benjamin Dirx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u83	Minister responsible for Small Business, since March 2020, our businesses have struggled with courage to deal with the pandemic and its consequences. In recent weeks, like my colleagues, I have wanted to meet many of them. The purpose of these visits was, of course, to support them, but above all to evaluate the various arrangements that we had been able to vote here – state-guaranteed loans, partial unemployment, solidarity funds, exemption from contributions. The companies met told me that these measures allowed them to pass the crisis, but also to project themselves towards the future. However, some sectors of activity, such as the event sector, and more partially the one related to marriage, have told me of the difficulties they face. The favourable health criteria allowed the President of the Republic to announce a reopening schedule for the various sectors of activity, which was told to us by the Prime Minister and gives us hope for the future. We are all happy to be able to find our shops, our coffee and restaurant terraces and our places of culture open next week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u84	And the nightclubs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u85	However, in certain sectors of activity, such as the event sector, the recovery will be gradual and the whole activity will not resume immediately. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister, could you elaborate on the recovery schedule for event societies and those related to marriage, as well as the accompanying measures, which will certainly have to last a little longer?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u86	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u87	As you said, since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has put in place very important mechanisms to support businesses, especially SMEs and TPEs. I confirm that we will continue to defend this choice as long as the health situation leads us to take measures to restrict business activity. The Prime Minister clarified yesterday the precise timetable for the reopenings. I naturally hear the concern of those sectors that will not resume normal activity as soon as the health restrictions are lifted, particularly, as you have pointed out, that of the event. As part of the consultations with Bruno Le Maire and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, last week I received representatives from the various sectors concerned because, as you know, there are several types of events: professional event, which brings together fairs, congresses and fairs, and private event, which includes in particular the field of weddings. From 19 May, wedding parties will be able to gather guests up to 35 per cent of the capacity of the festive venues, which will be increased from 9 June to 50 per cent for indoor festivities and 65 per cent for outdoor festivities. Finally, as of June 30, there will be no gauge for these events. As the sector cannot return to normal activity in the immediate future, we will extend the solidarity fund in its current form for the month of May. Between June and September, specific support will be introduced for those for whom this period is traditionally in reduced activity. The scheme will then be adapted to accompany the resumption of activity: the Solidarity Fund will partially compensate for turnover losses, even if these losses are less than 50% of the monthly turnover. This will make it possible to encourage companies which can only reopen with restrictions to resume their activity while being accompanied in the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u88	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u89	Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, every day that passes is a day when women are subjected to sexual harassment. Today, 81% of women report sexual harassment in public places: whistles, insistent or displaced eyes, friction, insults... We want firm and effective measures to ensure that all the streets of France are safe, for all women! The creation of an annual barometer to measure street harassment in France and the establishment of "neighbourhoods sans relou" (QSR) are communications blows without real consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u90	You said the same thing about the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, and yet it has real effects!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u91	The term "relou" conveys the image of an insistent and devoid of finesse, but this sweetened and familiar word minimizes the gravity of what women live in public space: the reality is that a man who harasses and insults a woman is an aggressor, who must answer for his actions before the courts. Repression must be exercised on a daily basis. The facts on the ground must be punished, since the State owed all women protection and access to all places. Let's set up floor sentences, remove the almost automatic penalty reductions! Let us be determined: fear must change sides! Is it normal for women to be afraid of going out or to be denied access to certain places that do not respect republican laws or our civic pact?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u92	Most of your LR colleagues have not passed the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Government must protect women; It must protect all citizens. Do you really think that the creation of an annual barometer and "neighbourhoods without relou" is an answer to the challenge? Do you intend to open the debate and punish the aggressors in an exemplary manner?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u94	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u95	I hope she'll be less aggressive than before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u96	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] I obviously share your willingness to fight street harassment. The verbalization of street harassment was moreover a campaign commitment of President Emmanuel Macron, the only candidate to have taken it Since, this commitment has become a reality, since the verbalization of street harassment was made possible by the adoption of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. France is now the only country in the world to have a law to verbalize street harassment, which is one of the so-called model laws, chosen by the G7 Advisory Council so that other countries can draw inspiration from it. I would like to pay tribute to the work of Members, in particular Mr. Balanant, who had worked hard to create the law. As for "neighbourhoods without relou", whose name is obviously a wink, it would only be communication if there was only one name. Now, behind the name, there are real deeds. Why do we create a barometer? In order to be able to better deploy law enforcement forces, particularly in transport, in the vicinity of RER stations and stations, thanks to precise mapping. This will enable the railway police, the SUGE, the judicial police officers (OPJ) and, where appropriate, the municipal police, to better coordinate and deploy to increase flagrances. Indeed, while some on these benches told us that there would never be verbalization or flagrante delicto, more than 3000 verbalizations were drawn up by law enforcement for street harassment. There have even been convictions in court. We want to increase the rate of verbalization in flagrante delicto, and that is why I have entrusted a mission to this effect to the Director General of the National Police and to the Director General of the National Gendarmerie. On the basis of land returns, they proposed several improvement points, including the creation of a barometer and mapping. They also called for better training in the fight against street harassment – with Gérald Darmanin, we are working on it – and the deployment of civilian personnel. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] As you can see, behind this wink name that allows us to debate the subject today, there are real actions to better protect women in the public space, because the public space is for everyone – including women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u97	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u98	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Harassment is everywhere, Madam Deputy Minister, and not just in some quarters! There have been only 3000 verbalizations since 2018: it's not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u99	You didn't pass the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u100	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u101	Minister of Solidarity and Health, remember: a year ago, the first doctor who died of the covid, infected by caring for a patient, was from the Oise. Let's remember that at that time, we didn't have masks, or even coats, for our caregivers. This seems far away, but no caregiver has forgotten; Students requisitioned to go to the front alongside their elders have not forgotten either. In fact, we all applauded them, at 20 o'clock, at our windows. We obeyed confinement because we were afraid, and the nursing staff was our only salvation. To reward them with this superhuman effort, many of which remain marked, you have decided to pay them a "covid bonus". But today, at a time when millions of French and French people are completing their tax returns, what was not the surprise of the carers when they found that the "covid premium" is included in the "Salaries and wages" section of their declaration! In other words, this premium would be taxable. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Our caregivers ask themselves a lot of questions and are worried: would they be given a bonus with one hand to reward them for their efforts for the Nation, while taking back the product of the other by subjecting it to tax? This premium was presented as totally exempt from income tax: Minister, can you reassure all recipients by confirming that this premium is not taxable?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u102	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u103	For more than a year now, the epidemic has hit the world and hit our daily lives. To deal with it, and despite the unknown nature of the emergence of a new virus, our caregivers have held with dedication, despite particularly harsh and recurrent epidemic waves. From the first day, the Government took the right step and announced, on the one hand, that a premium would be paid to all caregivers mobilized to deal with the epidemic, and on the other hand, that they had shown incredible dedication and the opening of negotiations to restore the careers of caregivers to their full attractiveness. Very concretely, last June, caregivers, but also other categories of staff – I am thinking in particular of administrative staff, whether they are holders, contract workers, apprentices or trainees – were able to receive the "covid premium" of 500 euros, and up to 1500 euros in the departments where the crisis caused the most arduous health situations. The grant of this premium has also been extended to EHPAD staff and medical and social professionals, in particular to professionals in home support and support services (SAAD). However, it was necessary to go further: last summer's Ségur de la santé agreements with the social partners had thus made an unprecedented improvement in the salaries of healthcare workers, thanks to a historic commitment by the Government of more than €8 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u104	History?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u105	Yes, 8 billion, it's really historic: quote me another episode of revalorization on this scale! A fundamental upgrading of 183 euros of the remuneration of all professionals in the hospital and public EHPAD, an improvement of the index grids effective since 1 October 2021, substantial career improvements for healthcare, medico-technical and rehabilitation professionals: this is the essential. In addition, the collective commitment is recognised by an additional remuneration of up to 100 euros, paid from the beginning of the 2021 re-entry. As you can see, therefore, the Government is fully mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u106	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u107	[[Applause on several banks in the UDI-I group, on some banks in the LR group]] The Government has claimed its generosity with a lot of drummers, but you did not want to tell the caregivers that they should pay taxes on their premium! This recognition is mercantile and cynical. Caregivers discover at this time, by signing their tax return, that the premium is considered a wage, therefore taxable: it is petty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u108	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u109	Mr Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, the aviation industry is going through an unprecedented turbulence. The pandemic has already caused the destruction of 30,000 jobs in aeronautics in France, and while the partial activity scheme, state-guaranteed loans and the support fund have helped to limit the social breakdown, Occitanie nevertheless lost 6250 direct jobs in 2020. SMEs and subcontractors have been and will continue to be hit very strongly by the crisis, while the donor companies have, for the time being, been less affected. I would like to draw your attention to employment and industrial sovereignty issues through research and development. In the €15 billion French aeronautics support plan, you have planned to dedicate €1.5 billion to the energy transition, setting the ambitious goal of launching a "green" hydrogen-powered aircraft by 2035. Last month, however, the Airbus Executive Committee underwent a major overhaul: for the first time in its history, engineering went under German governance and, with it, the direction of technology, within which budgets dedicated to research and technology transfer are managed. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] At a time when the needs for this are very important, not only for the green aircraft but also for the future European combat aircraft, the SCAF, a large-scale research relocation movement – to Germany or elsewhere – seems to be preparing. While we have unique expertise, great testing facilities and very high quality research centres – the National Office for Aerospace Studies and Research (ONERA), the European Centre for Advanced Research and Training in Scientific Computing (CERFACS), the Institute for Technological Research (IRT) Saint-Exupéry, the sites of the National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS) and the Atomic Energy and Renewable Energy Commission (CEA), there is a great deal of concern in Toulouse, Occitanie, and New Aquitaine. Can you assure us that the €1.5 billion planned over three years will feed many sites dedicated to research and technology transfer located in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u110	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u111	Airbus is an essential part of the French economy and its attractiveness: the French state is therefore particularly interested in its future and its strategic projects. As a shareholder of 11 per cent of the company, the State plays its role in the governance of the group. In terms of strategy for the Airbus Group, three points seem essential to me. First of all, the group must, of course, succeed in ending a health crisis that has hit the air sector very strongly, particularly airlines. Traffic is still 75% below pre-crisis levels in Europe, and 40% below pre-crisis levels in the United States: this weighs heavily on the ability of airlines to place orders. It will also be necessary to gradually increase the level of production in order to start a return to the pre-crisis situation, which will not take place for several years. Next, Airbus needs to increase its resilience to better withstand future crises. This requires more autonomy, particularly in the supply of raw materials, but also a better balance between civil aviation activities and the group's military activities. Indeed, the latter, which have resisted the crisis better, have made it possible to support the group this year. Finally, Airbus must continue the momentum in the decarbonisation of the air sector and continue the research and development that will result, by 2035, in the manufacture of a hydrogen-powered airliner that does not emit greenhouse gases. Thanks to the EUR 15 billion support plan for the aviation sector, this major work will continue, so that France and Europe become world leaders in the world of air transport. I have noted your willingness to maintain in our territory the jobs and intellectual capabilities we have in this field: it is also ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u112	He brought a lot of answers, didn't he?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u113	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u114	Thank you for your answer, Minister Delegate, but with regard to research and technological development, it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u115	It wasn't in his file!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u116	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u117	On Thursday, 6 May, the President of the Republic announced that, starting tomorrow, vaccination would be extended to all from the age of 18 years and without exception – as you recalled, Madam Minister Delegate – as soon as slots of appointments will be available within 24 hours. This decision must be welcomed, as enlargement thus arrives one month before the planned date, which prevents doses from being administered. This enlargement also responds to the decline in injections on Sundays and public holidays, while the risk of contamination is increased this month as the Ascension and Pentecost weekends approach. With 2.7 million French people vaccinated in the last week, the target of 30 million first-vaccinated on 15 June is therefore within reach. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, there is still concern about the availability and use of vaccine doses. Many vaccination centres say that they are faced not with a lack of public coverage but with a lack of doses to be administered. This is also the case for general practitioners and pharmacists, who fail to respond to their patient's request. Madam Deputy Minister, can you draw up the current state of affairs? Will healthcare professionals be able to benefit from the number of doses needed to meet the target set for mid-June? Finally, is it possible to extend access to the AstraZeneca vaccine to children under 55 years of age with the same protocol as in Germany, i.e. on the medical advice of the treating physician?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u118	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u119	You're asking me about our vaccination targets. Like you, of course, we want to speed up vaccination, which is our time to get out of crisis for all of us. You mention the target of 30 million first injections made by June 15th: we are of course making sure to reach it, whether it be the number of doses or the organisation. But before the June 15 target, there is the target of 20 million doses injected by May 15. Let me insist on it, because it is fundamental to the success of the exit from the crisis. As you know, in this week of Ascension Bridge, the Government launched a major mobilization operation around vaccination and testing, Operation "All on the Bridge". This effort is based on the organization of special events to speed up the number of vaccinations: it acts as a follow-up to the opening of vaccination to French people over 50 years of age from 10 May. This initiative is accompanied by an increase in screening in the general population throughout the national territory. To supplement my answer to Mr Leseul, I would like to point out that this operation is aimed at detecting the greatest number of people carrying the virus, whether symptomatic or not, upstream of family or friendly gatherings to be held at the Ascension Bridge. Numerous slot openings during public holidays and provision of vaccine doses are planned. In addition, we have asked pharmacists to be particularly mobilized to deliver auto-tests and carry out antigenic tests. Let me quote a few emblematic operations: in Île-de-France, nocturnal vaccinations have been planned, in Montrouge and Créteil in particular; In New Aquitaine, vaccination centres will be opened on public holidays and weekends, in sites such as the island of Ré or La Rochelle; in Corsica, self-test distribution and awareness-raising will be carried out at the airports of Ajaccio and Bastia; in Martinique, free self-test distributions will be made to young people in popular places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u120	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u121	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, and I would like to take this opportunity to greet health personnel at a time of total mobilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u122	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u123	My question is for the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. Tensions exist in many countries, such as Colombia and Palestine, which are the scene of worrying violence, but it is the situation in Burma that I would like to refer to again. As you know, since the brutal arrests of Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, and the military coup of 1 February last, the state of emergency has been proclaimed for a year and generals have been placed in the main posts. Since the questions I asked in public on 2 February and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 2 March, the Burmese situation has not been resolved. The junta continues its abuses, the prisoners are still in detention and popular demonstrations are being repressed with increasing violence. You have been informed that MPs who managed to escape the arrests have constituted a government in exile. For the first time, it includes representatives of all ethnic groups in the country. It is an immense hope for Burmese citizens in a challenging context. Beyond a country that is slowing down, beyond an army that remains welded and powerful, the commitment of men and women from all walks of life is an encouraging step forward, because it is inclusiveness that characterizes this government. Its composition itself sends a positive message and undeniably represents a step forward in solving the problems that have been undermining Burma for decades. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Faced with the systematic blockage of all United Nations initiatives, as a result of the Russian and Chinese vetoes, what complementary actions do our diplomacy and that of Europe envisage? Above all, is the recognition of this government of national unity, which would be envisaged by American and British diplomacy, on the agenda?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u124	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u125	It has been exactly a hundred days since a coup d'état took place in Burma and there is a terror regime there: 780 dead and 3,800 detained, including the President of the Republic and the State Councillor Aung San Suu Kyi. I would like to stress the courage of young and old people who, on the streets, in Burma, show their attachment to the regime and democratic freedoms. In the face of this situation, we have been able to count on the support of the friendship group that you are chairing here, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u126	It's laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u127	At European level, of course, we have imposed a number of sanctions. A first set of sanctions, starting in March, was followed by a second from April, which, beyond the individuals involved, also targets conglomerates – it's important, because you have to hit the wallet to be effective. Of course, we have suspended all budgetary support for government programmes: we only maintain humanitarian action to support the courageously fighting civil society. In the face of this situation, we must also try to move forward on the political path. A number of steps have been taken within ASEAN, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and a dialogue has begun, but there is now a need for real mediation involving the Committee representing the Assembly of the Union, the SCHR, which you mentioned. From this point of view, however, the account is not there. If the discussions do not progress, we will not remain inert: we will continue and study a third set of sanctions. In this regard, we should not be barred from looking at trade preferences, because there is a risk of a time when too much will be too much, and where there will be a need to cut food to that regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u128	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u129	Madam Minister of Culture, I have met on several occasions, at their invitation and in a constructive manner, intermittents from the show in my constituency. The reopening and timetable for the resumption announced by the President of the Republic on 29 April will give us hope and hope. Everyone knows you're very active on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u130	He has something to ask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u131	While the professionals are partly reassured by these announcements, the intermittents of the show remain concerned about their situation and the protective measures affecting them. In order to prevent them from finding themselves without resources, the Government introduced the white-year scheme until 31 August 2021. It was a strong measure, which has enabled them to be protected in recent months. Despite the progress announced, however, the recovery will be gradual and the intermittents fear that they will not fully resume their activities in the coming weeks. They are campaigning, as you know, for the extension of the white year. Madam Minister, you have begun a dialogue on this subject with Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion. For the very particular sector of subcontractors in sound and light, the cancellation of festivals and cultural seasons of seaside resorts has led to a dry loss of 80% of turnover. However, the tourist and cultural season in Sales represents 37,000 direct and indirect jobs, which in a normal year generate more than 2 billion euros. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] While there is now a strong hope for the reopening of cultural venues and all professionals will be able to resume an activity, can you tell us what measures will be effective and reassure the intermittents of the show as to the maintenance of protection and support arrangements? What support can and does the Government want to provide to support artistic employment throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u132	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u133	We are pleased that the places of culture are reopening in a week. As you said, this recovery will be gradual. Some institutions may decide to wait until the beginning of the school year to reopen; It is therefore appropriate to extend the exceptional system of unemployment compensation which covers the intermittents of the show, artists and technicians. For this, we entrusted a mission to André Gauron, who made a diagnosis and proposed solutions. [[Mr ErwanBalanant and Mr M. Jean-LouisBricoutapplaudent]] Minister Élisabeth Borne and I have decided to choose the highest protection system that guarantees the longest period of compensation. Thus, even if the cultural sites had not reopened, 75% of the intermittents would have recovered their rights by 31 August. So we will first extend the white year until December 31, 2021. This is a very important step. Safety nets will accompany those who might escape the compensation: extension of the period of affiliation, catch-up clause and adjustment of the terms of the professionalisation and solidarity allowance (APS). The intermittents of the show will be protected throughout the year 2022: we provide 16 months of protection and compensation thanks to this dual mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u134	History!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] A special effort will be made for young people, with, from 1 September, a reduction to 338 hours instead of 507 hours of the threshold of access to intermittance and the establishment of tools for bringing young artists and technicians together under the scheme 1 young person, 1 solution. Measures are also being taken to promote artistic employment, with an additional 30 million allocated in relation to the measures already in place, support for the payment of contributions by the Single Window for Occasional Performing Arts (GUSO), the strengthening of aid under the Public Interest Grouping (GIP) cafés cultures, the strengthening of aid to small theatres under the National Fund for Permanent Employment in Performing Arts (FONPEPS) and the maintenance of daily maternity and sickness benefits, even for those who do not have sufficient rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u136	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u137	As the Minister for Overseas Affairs is on the move to French Polynesia, where citizens are fortunate enough to have country laws passed, my question is to the Minister for Citizenship. It concerns the political and institutional situation in New Caledonia. Since the fall of its Government on 2 February, New Caledonia has been paralyzed. On 17 February, for the first time since the signing of the Nouméa Accord in 1998, the independenceists of the Front de libération nationale kanak et socialiste (FLNKS) obtained the majority of the seats of the Caledonian government. But because of a disagreement within the two independent majority branches, no president has yet been appointed. The independents committed themselves to having a president appointed tomorrow, but the loyalists, who ruled until February last, would also plan to appoint a president from their ranks. This crisis illustrates how deep the political tensions in Caledonia are and does not imply a calm climate for the holding of the last referendum following the Matignon accords on self-determination of the territory, to be held before 22 October this year. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In New Caledonia, the independents led two out of three provinces and reduced the voting gap in their favour in the last referendum. Therefore, whatever the outcome of the future consultation, Caledonian society risks the fracture, and is concerned for its social and economic future. It is also about France's sovereignty and influence in this area of the Pacific, where geostrategic issues are increasingly preempted by China. Madam Minister Delegate, what actions is the Government taking to accompany this territory towards the smoothest possible transition?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u138	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u139	I apologize to Mr. Sébastien Lecornu, who is on an official trip to the Pacific, in French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u140	Well! Life is beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u141	He's the overseas minister! Under the Nouméa Agreement, two electoral consultations were held in 2018 and 2020 on the territory's accession to full sovereignty. On 8 April, a further consultation was requested by more than one third of the members of the Congress of New Caledonia, which will be held in the near future. You are right, honourable Member: the future of New Caledonia is important to us all. It is up to the people of Caledonia to determine their future, but it is also up to us, collectively, to identify the stakes and consequences of each choice, in terms of transparency and confidence. Determining the date of the new referendum requires knowing where New Caledonia is going, whatever its choice. This requires full consultation and in-depth reflection. This is the meaning of the political process that was initiated by the Minister of Overseas Affairs, under the authority of the Prime Minister and with the local political formations, concerning the institutional future of New Caledonia. We believe, however, that this great consultation should not be limited to the political field. We have therefore asked the High Commissioner of the Republic in New Caledonia to initiate a consultation with civil society. It was a success: a large number of Caledonians took part, and restitutions were organized in the three provinces. Thanks to this, we can take one more step: work on the consequences of a yes or a no in the referendum will be carried out and presented to the political leaders in Caledon, as well as to Parliament on the occasion of Caledonian week. In particular, it is on this basis that the political process will continue – the Prime Minister invited, at the end of May, a delegation of Caledonian political actors of all sensitivities. We continue our journey, we respect the path laid out by the Nouméa Accords, and we are preparing for the future of New Caledonia, whatever it may be, because, more than ever, the time has come for dialogue with all actors. We will not give up this dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u142	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u143	My question is for the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. For your chaotic management, the vaccination campaign, combined with the arrival of the fine days, makes it possible to soften somewhat the health constraints faced by our fellow citizens. The tourism sector is concerned, and I welcome this: France is indeed the world's largest tourist destination and tourism is its first sector of activity – it represents EUR 16 billion of a positive balance of payments. However, the first confinement drained the cash flow of the professionals, forcing the most fragile to stop their operations, and the second confinement dramatically increased these difficulties for the companies in the sector. In the best case, it is anticipated that at least 20% of hotels will be closed and at least 25% of restaurants will be closed. In order to safeguard this sector which is essential to our economy, the State must commit itself more strongly: it must preserve the sustainability of these enterprises as best as possible, but must also accompany the expected developments in the tourism sector. The last recovery plan for tourism, presented in the autumn, is above all a safeguard plan, whose measures – solidarity funds, social security exemptions, state-guaranteed loans – allow the most solid to resist while waiting for better days. However, the re-start of the sector will be very gradual, subject to seasonality, and the return to economic equilibrium of tourist activities will not be immediate. The few equity funds, now reduced, of the players in the sector, will not at the same time overcome the transition, and make the investments necessary for a rapid change in the organisation of the sector, in particular to move towards a more sustainable and environmentally friendly tourism. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What are you planning to support the strategic sector of tourism?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u144	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u145	I thank you for pointing out that the State has been present alongside tourism actors since the beginning of the crisis: this sector has benefited from €28 billion of support through partial activity, state-guaranteed loans and the solidarity fund. We will remain with him during the recovery. Mr Alain Griset has just confirmed this: following the consultations we held with the sector last week, we will maintain adequate support, as the recovery will be very gradual, in accordance with our strategy. We are three steps away from regaining freedom – on 19 May, 9 June and 30 June – and turnover will only grow gradually. The message is therefore very clear: we will continue to support tourism actors. In addition, we launched today, together with the territories, regions, destinations and Atout France, a major campaign to promote the destination France, to ensure that European customers, who represent three-quarters of the international visitors, resume the path of France – and, of course, with caution. The aim will be to reconcile the resumption with the health protocols, and to exercise due vigilance. We put 10 million euros on the table to ensure that the "blue-white-red summer" becomes a reality, and that our compatriots choose France – because, by making the tour of France, we also tour the world, as the landscapes are varied and so much the terroirs, like all those who support tourism, have wealth to offer. We are at the side of the tourism players and we will remain so, in order to live a "blue-white-red summer".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u146	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Since tourism is above all an economic activity, the attachment of your State Secretariat to the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs questions us. Studies show that by 2030 global supply will have tripled, while demand will only double: the battle will therefore be tough, and several countries, aware that the health crisis is an opportunity to fight back the cards, have already committed themselves to doing so. An evolution of the Government's stimulus plan is therefore essential in order to provide more ambitious support for tourism, a strategic sector for our country. Mr. Secretary of State, there's an emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u148	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u149	As you know, Madam Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities, I have been fighting for several years against what we call "conversion therapies". These terribly violent practices, according to their authors, are aimed at changing a person's sexual orientation or gender identity: they are based on the assumption that homosexuality or transidentity are diseases that should be cured. This is not the case – there is nothing to cure. Conversion therapies usually take place in closed religious circles, without eyes, in medical practice, in charlatans or in the family circle. In concrete terms, their authors carry out exorcisms about the victims, harass them for a long time and prescribe them treatments based on hormones, antidepressants or seismotherapy, i.e. electroshocks – as much abject violence as we must fight. These acts have absolutely dramatic effects on the health of victims, often very young and under mental control: some have severe depressions, scarification and isolation from society; Others have serious memory losses related to treatment; Still others are trying to commit suicide – and some are succeeding. In 2015, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights described these practices as torture. That is why, with the support of Christophe Castaner, the entire La République en marche group has decided to table a bill prohibiting practices aimed at changing a person's sexual orientation or gender identity. If our legislative arsenal is already very strong, we want to strengthen it in order to act effectively against conversion therapies and to offer a response to the victims, who are gradually beginning to speak. Our ambition is also to tell all our fellow citizens that we refuse that such horrors persist in our territory. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] We must collectively affirm our commitment to combat these tortures, and strongly recall not only that France defends the rights and freedoms of LGBT people – lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals – but also that it protects them. Your commitment to this matter, Madam Deputy Minister, is no longer to be demonstrated. How would the Government not only support the victims of conversion therapy, but also condemn their executioners?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u150	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u151	I thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to affirm, with all the necessary determination, that, no, homosexuality is not a perversion or disease that should be treated, and yes, conversion therapies are totally unacceptable attacks on human dignity and integrity. These middle-aged practices cause lasting suffering for lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender people, and I thank parliamentarians and associations who are mobilizing to fight this scourge. I would also like to point out that these practices are strictly prohibited in France: victims can therefore file a complaint and be accompanied. The Criminal Code strongly condemns the offences of abuse of weakness, harassment and discrimination, homophobic statements and voluntary violence, while the Public Health Code prohibits the illegal use of medicine for all alleged doctors who want to treat homosexuality. I am pleased to announce that the Ministry of Justice will soon issue a circular to remind you of existing law in this area. Eric Dupond-Moretti and I are working hard against LGBTphobias, and we won't let anything go. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, the national action plan for equality, anti-hate and anti-LGBT + discrimination, which I launched on 14 October, plans to adopt provisions to stop conversion therapies. Thank you, honourable Member, for your work in bringing this scourge to light for too long. Be assured that the fight against all forms of LGBTphobias is a priority of the Government, because, yes, LGBT+ people are citizens and citizens in their own right, and not, equality of rights is not a variable geometry – it is not negotiable. That is why I have confidence in the majority, led by Christophe Castaner, to finally adopt the LDC for all that will be discussed shortly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u152	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u153	Does anyone in this government know about Project H, which has been in hidden gestation for several months? Could a member of the Government enlighten our lantern, whether it is a yes or a no? Our assembly and the French would like to know if anyone is aware of Project H.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u154	[[Rites and exclamations on various benches]] Is there a candidate to answer? The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u155	[[Applause and laughter on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Indeed, Mr. Jumel, the Government is familiar with Project H.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u156	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u157	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u158	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] On such an important matter, the response of a full minister would be a sign of respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u159	The game of guesses is not a mark of clarity either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u160	H like Hercules: it is EDF's project to unpick, of which it is now forbidden to pronounce the name, this project that Emmanuel Macron dreamed freely to lead under François Hollande, and which you negotiate very laboriously with the European Commission, in the dark, closed doors, curtains drawn, without the knowledge of the French. You don't know the H project, it's normal: it's full of holes, unknowns, uncertainties, risks, gaping questions without answers; It is a kind of adventure game that is played blindly with our national tool and our energy sovereignty. Yet you claim to impose it before the end of the quinquennium, according to a calendar that changes every four morning. Your only success – not yours, Mr Griset, that of Mr Le Maire – is to have succeeded in creating and consolidating, against this project, a united union and parliamentary front.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u161	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups and on some benches of the FI group]] Rather than act as business bankers by endorsing Enedis to renewable energies (ENR), with the sole aim of returning short-term money to the shareholder state; Instead of cutting EDF into slices to privatize what returns, temporarily leaving what costs in the community, stop your blackmail! No one's for the status quo. Accept to discuss with Parliament, agree to dialogue, with the intelligence of the trade unions, on the other solutions we have put forward for EDF. Will you? Are you going to be strong before the summer, or are you going to postpone the debate on EDF's future in the fall? You seem to be looking for guarantees, I'll give you one: give up project H.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u163	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u164	I'm glad you're familiar with this H project and you've done well to clarify what you know. EDF risks losing some of its hydro-electric concessions in the light of today's competitive obligation and ongoing Community disputes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u165	Your words say a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u166	Developments in hydropower are blocked pending the settlement of these disputes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u167	Irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u168	On the other hand, the current regulation of the nuclear power plant does not ensure that the costs and investments necessary for its operation are covered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u169	You confess!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u170	At the same time, EDF's major European competitors are investing heavily, particularly in renewable energy. The Government does not want EDF to be relegated to the background on these major issues of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u171	Stand up for EDF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u172	Thus the Government, in close connection with EDF, has initiated discussions with the European Commission to empower the company to play a key role in the energy transition, while respecting the rules of the European electricity market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u173	But according to what calendar?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u174	It founded its demand for the evolution of the regulation of existing nuclear production for its major contribution to French energy policy. The Government's project would ensure the sustainability of all EDF's public service missions and the status of all its activities as a public enterprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u175	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u176	It would guarantee EDF's future through fair remuneration for its nuclear production activity and the maintenance of hydro-electric concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u177	It's a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u178	It would be based on 100% detention of EDF-SA by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u179	Sarkozy said the same thing about GDF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u180	The draft would be debated in Parliament and submitted to EDF's social dialogue and governance bodies. The negotiations continue with the Commission to define the scope of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u181	Zero applause!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u182	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u183	Like many of you, ladies and gentlemen, I no longer count the evidence of exasperation and ras-le-bol vis-à-vis telephone stalls and other fraudulent calls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u184	Yes, we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u185	Fleau for a large number of French, poisoning of daily life, ordeal suffered by millions of people:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u186	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u187	... the formulas compete to denounce these untimely and intrusive phone calls that disturb the French at their home, in their space of tranquillity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u188	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u189	You have to know how to call things by their name: when the phone rings several times a day, not to hear a familiar voice but the one that tries to sell you what you didn't want to sell, it's no longer phone stalling, it's phone harassment. The situation is all the more worrying when it concerns the most vulnerable, who no longer want to pick up their phones, isolate themselves and become difficult to reach. Last year, at the initiative of our colleague Naegelen, we finally voted, after two years of collective work mobilising MEPs from all political sides, a daily law strengthening the fight against untimely and fraudulent appeals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u190	It is an inadequate, ineffective text and it is not respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u191	A law that's useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u192	One of its implementing decrees, currently being finalized, must specify the days, hours and frequencies at which calls may be made. This decree was submitted to the National Consumer Council for consultation. Last week, the twelve consumer associations that are members of this council were concerned about a drafting that, in its current wording, appears to be very tolerant of calling frequencies by making them possible, for example, on Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 18 p.m. So, Minister Delegate for Small and Medium Enterprises, can you assure these associations as well as all the French who listen to us that the law voted in 2020 will be well implemented,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u193	He'll answer yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] ... while it still struggles to produce all its effects, despite the increase in financial sanctions? The climbs of the terrain reveal in fact bypasses of the inscription on Bloctel, of the gaiters who hide their identity, of the stalls that still concern, and this despite the ban, the thermal renovation. The French are waiting for answers to the daily violations of their tranquillity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u195	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u196	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u197	First of all, I would like to reiterate the Government's determination to protect consumers in their daily lives. I also welcome the work of the agents of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) whose activity report for the year 2020 was presented at the end of April. This mobilisation applies in particular to the fight against unwanted telephone calls. We know that unsolicited telephone stalling is a major inconvenience for our fellow citizens, sometimes disturbed several times a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u198	What about Mr Cordier's bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u199	They didn't want it, they rejected it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u200	What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u201	It is also too often a vector of fraud and scams in sometimes sensitive sectors like, as you said, energy renovation or insurance. I am fully aware of the very strong expectations of the French who want concrete progress in this area. A law aimed at regulating the opening of the telephone and at combating fraudulent calls, of which your colleague Christophe Naegelen is at the origin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u202	He's not the one who made it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u203	... strengthened the framework for consumer protection, notably by increasing the penalties to make them more dissuasive, the fine being increased from €75000 to €375,000. In addition, at the beginning of February 2021, the Government reduced the subscription rate for Blockel service in order to make it easier for smaller companies to comply. In this way, I have asked the DGCCRF to be fully mobilised to combat illegal clearance in a firm and resolute manner. We are determined to clean up the market and achieve tangible and rapid results. In March 2021, the first fine on the grounds of the start-up in the field of energy renovation was imposed. One company was fined €367,000. Finally, consultation is under way with consumer associations and professional organizations on the decree which determines the days and hours, as well as the frequency at which it is possible when authorized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u204	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u205	Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport: "Priority education is an essential policy that needs to be maintained and strengthened. These were your comments when, on November 5, 2019, you received the Mathiot-Azema report on the future of priority education areas. Like you, I believe that this policy is essential because it has advanced students in disadvantaged schools by providing them with additional resources. The report recommends that a specific national scheme be provided for schools, small towns and towns in social and school difficulties. You then announced the first steps in this direction as early as the beginning of 2020 and a reform for 2021 through the Rural Education Territories program. What about now? Two years after the submission of this report, national education is facing a real turning point. The gap has been widening since the health crisis, owing to closed classrooms, school drop-out, inequalities between urban and rural areas and the widening gap between public and private institutions. Despite your experimentation policy, all remains to be done: 23% of rural youth do not pursue higher education compared to 15% at the national level. Your famous "strings of success" struggle to climb the mountain of success. At home, in the Hauts-de-Frances, the figures are revealing: while the results of the Amiens Academy have improved over the last ten years, they are still below the national average. Fairness requires the allocation of additional resources to these outstanding territories. If the REP system, the priority education network, were still open, many students would benefit from more effective education and double classes from primary to secondary school. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The rural territories of the Somme and Limeux need answers to these findings. My question is simple and urgent: with these first results, when and how are you going to generalize the rural educational territories testing program?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u206	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u207	Your question is obviously very important and I think that all the benches in this House can share your diagnosis: we must of course do something for rural school. This is part of the equal opportunities policy. Thank you for referring to the rural educational territories experiment, led by the Secretary for Priority Education, Ms Nathalie Elimas, because she has already taken action. Yes, there is a follow-up to the Mathiot-Azema report to which you referred. As I speak to you, there are 23 rural educational territories, particularly in the Amiens Academy where you are a Member of Parliament. Yes, rural educational territories have begun. The quantitative approach and the qualitative approach are complementary. In quantitative terms, this government will have done the most in terms of first-degree job creation. While the number of students in France has decreased by 200000 since 2017 at primary school, we have created more than 7,500 posts since that date. In your area of the Somme, we create ten additional posts next year, while there will be 1,000 fewer students. There are more openings than class closures in your department, while there are far fewer students. Yes, your concern is very fair, and the answer is up to the point. But, of course, there is a lot to be done. This is why we must take into account the qualitative angle, which is done through rural educational territories, i.e. the implementation of schemes which have sometimes proved their worth in urban areas, but which must be adapted to rural areas: for example, help with homework, taking account of transport problems. I am thinking of the e-duties system, the cultural and sports projects or the help to local authorities for rich Wednesday plans – all these projects are present in rural educational territories. We need to move forward, which goes hand in hand with a strategy of attractiveness of rural schools, to serve the demographic rebound of rural life that may be favored by current circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u208	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u209	Minister for Agriculture and Food, negotiations on the next Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) are continuing with the preparation of the National Strategic Plan (NSP). Faced with the challenges imposed by climate change, the post-2020 CAP will be central. We know that changing our agricultural system to agroecology and regaining biodiversity are two fundamental issues. Agroforestry and hedges are an integral part of agroecological practices. For many years, however, our country has turned to agro-industrial farming, which has led to the destruction of a large number of hedges and orchards. Fortunately, farmers have resisted this wave and have retained their agroforestry heritage despite little support. Trees and hedgerows play a key role in combating soil erosion, recovering water quality, retaining inputs and capturing carbon, and responding to the challenge of combating global warming. The actions must now be in line with the stated ambitions. The recovery plan has spent several million euros on this, which is to be welcomed. Now, two strong signals are expected in the next CAP: funding to enable farmers to maintain this heritage they have maintained so far; funding to encourage farmers to replant. To this end, it seems to me essential that trees and hedges be permanently integrated into eco-regimes. This new scheme, provided for in the first pillar of the new CAP, could in particular be based on agro-ecological infrastructures in order to promote sustainable management. The integration of the Haie label would be an important step towards increasing agricultural conversion. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] What measures will be taken for agroforestry within the framework of the national strategic plan? Does our country support the label developed by the Afac-Agroforestries – Association française arbres champêtres et Agroforesteries?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u210	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u211	Madam Member, we do not talk often in this House about hedges and I thank you for putting them forward because it is a positive element for our country. They help to fix soils, capture carbon and develop what is called biocontrol, i.e. to combat a number of health diseases. It was these great policies of re-memberment of the second half of the 20th century that were a tragedy in our country, since they destroyed thousands and thousands of kilometres of hedges. That is what we must fight against today. To do so, there are three elements. Firstly, what is called the green conditionalities of the common agricultural policy must be used. The one introduced in the previous common agricultural policy, amounting to 30% of the first pillar, is generalised to 100% of the first pillar. Secondly, agro-ecological infrastructures, including hedges, must be included in the eco-regime, either by a dedicated route or in ways that have been formulated. I am at your disposal to describe precisely these very technical subjects. Finally, the recovery plan devotes EUR 50 million to replanting hedges, the aim being to plant more than 7,000 kilometres of hedges in our country. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, this goal of hedges is therefore very rooted in the policy that we are pursuing for the benefit of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u212	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u213	Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs, this Sunday, on the occasion of Europe Day, the President of the Republic spoke at the opening of the conference on the future of Europe. He was in Strasbourg, where he was able to sign a three-year contract that strengthens this city as the European capital, and I welcome it. Europe is a daily reality in my constituency, which is also that of one of its founding fathers, Robert Schuman. In this border area with Luxembourg and Germany, thousands of our fellow citizens cross the border every day to go to work. Exchanges between our States, bilingualism and European studies are realities of their daily lives. On this territory, which is martyred by the three wars between France and Germany, we know more than anywhere else that Europe is not the unrealistic desire of spoiled children, nor a fantasy of technocrats off the ground. The European Union is a necessity which has made peace possible on our continent and which is now helping to assert our power on the international stage. However, the construction of Europe has not been completed, and we are aware of its limitations and weaknesses. We were able to see its strategic importance during the crisis, but it must now be more agile and allow us to decide faster and stronger. We must also strengthen Europe's sovereignty in strategic areas. This conference on the future of Europe is accompanied by a great democratic consultation, so that all citizens of the 27 countries of the Union can share their vision of their future. We must resume dialogue and listen to all expectations and dissatisfaction, as well as good ideas and vigilance points. Mr Secretary of State, how will this citizen consultation be carried out in practice in our country? I would like to draw your attention to the place that should be left to young people in this great moment of exchange and debate, those young people who are strongly affected by the health crisis and the economic crisis, but who are also full of ideas for our future. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, can you assure us that the demands of our fellow citizens will not be buried immediately? It is essential that their words be heard, so that this consultation is not another thing that undermines confidence in the European institutions. In any case, I hope that this important initiative will succeed, so that Europe will embark on a renaissance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u214	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u215	Thank you, Madam Commissioner, for bringing out a European commitment, which is not surprising from an elected member of Robert Schuman's constituency. This commitment is shared by all elected border officials, including those in your region. In this regard, I would like to say that I am aware of the difficulties faced by frontier workers, particularly in Moselle, whose requests you have repeatedly – and rightly – relayed. Thanks to our collective mobilization, we have been able to obtain relief in the last few days, and we will continue this work. As you said, the President of the Republic visited Strasbourg on Sunday on European Day. In recalling the commitment of the President and the Government to the Statute of the European Capital of Strasbourg, I will stress the presence not only of many elected representatives, but also, for the first time, of the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Parliament, on this day, a symbol of the European influence of the city. The day was also marked by the launch of the conference on the future of Europe. This idea is not a thing: it is a proposal that the President of the Republic made two years ago, that is, before the covid -19 pandemic. Supported by the presidential majority in the European elections, this proposal has gradually been convinced. It is emerging with a few months late, at a time when it is even more necessary to engage in an open and in-depth debate throughout Europe. It will end in a year's time, during the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So we are committed to doing something about it. It will not be a debate for professionals of the profession, a kind of catechism or technocratic lubi. It will be open, especially to young people. In France, the Government will hold debates on all areas in all regions, including of course overseas, for several consecutive weekends after the summer. On Sunday, together with this conference on the future of Europe, we launched a specific consultation for young people throughout Europe. By July, it is expected to reach 50,000 of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u216	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u217	Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u218	Look at Mr. Hetzel, at least, Madam Minister, when he asks you a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u219	...if we were to doubt it, the pandemic has shown that research plays a strategic role in our Western societies in responding to immediate and future challenges. In November 2020, the Director-General for Research and Innovation (DGRI), the most senior official responsible for coordinating research policy in France, slammed the door because he disagreed with you. Since then, you haven't been able to replace him. More than six months later, it must be noted that this vacancy illustrates the lack of leadership in research in general and more specifically in the field of health. At the time of the debate on the research programming law for the years 2021 to 2030, researchers have shown their dismay at your policy. In order to regain their confidence, you sent them a strong signal: you no longer put a pilot on the plane. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is very serious, Madam Minister, because the role of a DGRI is to drive a national research strategy, to coordinate public and private actors in this field, i.e. to ensure that France can remain a major research nation. When are you going to appoint a Director General of Research and Innovation alongside you, finally remedying this situation which has become highly damaging to our country and its research?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u220	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u221	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u222	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the work of the Acting DGRI, Nicolas Chaillet, who assumes all the very important tasks that you have just recalled. Voted by the Government, supported by the majority of the National Assembly and the Senate, the Research Programming Act aims to address the massive lack of research investment, which we have unfortunately seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u223	We haven't been investing in research for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u224	It is therefore very important for a DGRI to share the objectives of this law: to irrigate research to all places where it is carried out, whether it be dedicated organizations or universities. With regard to the research policy strategy, do not worry: permanent meetings allow us to define it. Innovation in a country is the result of research 10 or 15 years earlier. Let's look for responsibilities together, if you will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u225	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u226	Madam Minister, you are in no way answering the question that I am asking you. How come you haven't decided to appoint a DGRI, when all the research actors have been waiting for this appointment for six months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u228	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] [[Applause on the banks of the LR group, some of the banks of the SOC, FI and GDR groups]] It is a proof of contempt, experienced as such by the researchers. You can't treat them that way. At a time when we are in France, this very bad way of research is not a very good augury.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u229	Bravo! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u230	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u231	Unfortunately, with applications closed, a new Director General for Research and Innovation will be appointed in a few days' time. You probably would have liked to do a lot for our research and higher education. You probably would have liked to launch Parcoursup, after having used the drawing of lots in the post-bac admission procedure (APB).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u232	No one! Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u233	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You would have wanted to pass a research programming law that would invest EUR 25 billion, which has never been done under any of the previous governments. Unfortunately, honourable Member, I confirm that the position is taken. We're going to name someone very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u234	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u235	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On June 20, Emmanuel Macron said that the vaccine should be a global public good. However, France voted twice in October and May against a proposal to lift patents, notably from India and South Africa to the WTO. The ministers' aeropage then explained to us for weeks that the lifting of patents was useless. Worse, it would damage innovation and research. It should be recalled that until 1959 it was not possible to patent vaccines. The presidential monarch was recently struck by the US pardon of President Biden, who approves the lifting of patents. This is obviously not a sufficient condition: the pharmaceutical industries must also be forced to step up the production of covid-19 vaccines, removing barriers to supply capacity, sharing technologies and ending the monopoly they hold on their respective vaccines. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] According to UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund, only 43 per cent of the global vaccine production capacity is currently being used. Oxfam has recently pointed the finger at Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech companies, which, with public subsidies, artificially ration the supply of vaccines. In the face of this refusal to share technology, States must undertake requisitions and sharing. As variants multiply and the situation in India worsens, the urgency is there. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Seeing the Indians die, I can only regret that Luxfer's medical oxygen bottle factory was not saved. We are losing the race to control this pandemic, because of the lure of gain and ideological defense of the profits of some. Your procrastination over the past year has demonstrated a greedy blindness that kills in India, Africa and France. As the pandemic is global, vaccines and patent-free remedies must be produced everywhere. When are you finally going to propose a resolution to the WTO to request the lifting of patents?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u236	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u237	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Speaking of grace, it fascinates me to see that, for the past few days, your leader is no longer Jean-Luc Mélenchon but Joe Biden. What is the reality, beyond slogans? In terms of global public good, we are acting instead of just speaking. For a year now, France and Europe have been defending the idea of the vaccine as a global public good, which does not amount to the lifting of patents. This debate will come in time, but I maintain that this measure would be of no use at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u238	The WTO says the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u239	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] At the moment, we must produce, export and give doses to countries that need them. Who does? France and Europe. While exports from the United States are zero, Europe and France have exported 200 million doses to African countries, countries that need them. We export half of our production, which is our honour and our duty. That is how we respond to the real difficulties. We will have a debate on patents. It should be noted, however, that even the Director General of the WTO, Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, said today that this was not the priority. Since we share the objective of giving all people practical access to vaccines, continue to support the Covax initiative. I am delighted to see the United States determined to give vaccines as we have been doing for a year,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u240	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u241	... because it allows to deliver doses to African caregivers. France started these deliveries as early as April...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u242	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u243	...and she'll sue them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u244	Don't scream, you're bothering Mrs. Autain!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u245	We are open to all solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u246	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u247	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] In any event, the problem is not the intellectual property of vaccines, it is their production and export. Last weekend, the President of the Republic asked the President of the United States and the British Prime Minister to lift the export bans. If you want to fight the pandemic, join this request. This is the priority of the moment; We will then work on patents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u248	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u249	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u250	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.55 p.m. and resumed at 17.10 a.m. with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u251	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u252	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the management of the exit from a health crisis (No. 4105, 4141).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u253	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding Amendment No. 229 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u254	On Article 1, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u255	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u256	It is based on the first paragraph of Article 48, which deals with the organization of our work. When I discovered that the time for debate on the health crisis management bill was limited to yesterday's two sittings, I was already of the opinion that this would probably not be enough. No one could believe that, for such an important text, the amendments tabled by Members, whether they belong to the majority or to the opposition, would be so few that the House could simply devote a few hours, in this case the afternoon and the evening of Monday. Therefore, we have an obligation to extend the debate today. The minister responsible for defending the text, Olivier Véran, is not present. This finding does not detract from the status of Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, who replaces him on the bench, but it indicates the few cases that the executive does parliamentary work, particularly in the area of a state of emergency. The second consequence is that the Assembly's agenda is completely embossed. The Government had already chosen to include several texts on the floor during the May bridge period, which deprives us of several sitting days. It will continue to do so at the beginning of June, as a text as important as the bioethics bill will be re-readed only 15 days before the departmental and regional elections. Quite frankly, in view of the organisation of our debates and the setting of the agenda of our House, there is much to be said about the respect of Parliament's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u257	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u258	I am indeed putting my steps in those of our colleague, Mr Brindeau. There is a problem of organizing our debates. Everyone was present yesterday afternoon at 4 p.m. I regret that the number of amendments has been underestimated, as has been, in a way, the nature and sometimes the vigour of our debates. Yet these are important because they concern the end of the state of emergency: we cannot accept a trivialization of our law. The whole of the work is shaken by this problem of organisation: on the one hand, I am not sure that our debate will be completed by the end of the day; On the other hand, a hearing of the Minister of the Interior by the Law Committee on the proposal for a law on firefighters is planned tonight, but it is not known whether it will take place or not; Finally, the ministers responsible for the issues we are discussing at this time are absent this afternoon. In short, all this is a little complicated. This forty-band pool game becomes difficult to manage if we want to work and legislate properly. It was good for me to call him back on behalf of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u259	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u260	It is also based on Article 48(1). I can only use the word'scorn' for Parliament, as my colleague Brindeau has said. I must admit that I was absolutely scorned when I read the press this morning, even though our colleague Latombe mentioned the publication of this interview during the debates last night. We did not stop yesterday afternoon and last night asking Minister Olivier Véran questions about how the health pass should be applied. We didn't get any answers. And because they were given to journalists the same morning by the Prime Minister, who did not deign to present himself to the Assembly at the question-and-answer meeting in the Government. Of course, he was attending the tribute ceremony to police officer Eric Masson, which is quite understandable. [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] However, since parliamentary work is under way, the least that would have happened would have been for the minister who was on the bench yesterday to answer our questions, knowing that announcements were planned and that the answers would be in the press the next morning. This is a rather blatant illustration of the Government's contempt for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u262	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u263	It aims to territorialize the implementation of the curfew. Territorialisation is clearly the most effective strategy to combat the epidemic and, at the same time, to preserve the freedoms of the French, which have been in question since the beginning of this health crisis. It is now necessary to allow a resumption of activity and life for all traders and restorers, while controlling the epidemic. Only territorialisation will make it possible to reconcile these two objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u264	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u265	The additional one-month period throughout the country is absolutely necessary so that we do not release our efforts too quickly and that we can make the most of the coming summer. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u266	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u267	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u268	I have before me two identical amendments, No 217 corrected and 219 corrected. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 217, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u269	The President of the Republic had referred, during his interview with the regional press, to the delay in curfew at 23.00 hours from 9 June. Having not found that clarification in paragraph 8, I have allowed myself to table this amendment in order to include this measure in the law, which would of course concern areas in which the virus will not be active.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u270	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support Amendment No. 219, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u271	This amendment, which is the same as that of the rapporteur – we have drafted them together – and which I am presenting on behalf of the Republic on the move, aims to regulate the curfew scheme, which can only be in force until 30 June, and to translate into law the very precise announcements made by the President of the Republic, i.e. a curfew which would start at 21 hours from 19 May to 8 June and 23 hours from 9 to 30 June – in both cases until 6 am – with the exception of those territories where the virus circulation would be very strong. In the latter, curfew would remain at twenty-one hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u273	As you explained, your amendment aims to include in the law the guidelines given by the President of the Republic on 29 April. The Government is rather reluctant to translate these announcements literally into law, since an unpredictable and compelling change in the health situation – we have experienced in previous months – may require an adjustment of these guidelines. However, we understand the spirit of your amendments, and we therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u274	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u275	These amendments call upon me because, for once, it is proposed to include concrete measures in the law to indicate that, if they were to be amended, for example to change curfew time, it would be necessary to go back to the national representation. As our colleague Mr Gouffier-Cha has pointed out, we are currently living at the pace of the announcements made by the President of the Republic, so much so that it is no longer even the Government that governs but the President – in the circumstances, we wonder who presides. The inclusion of this type of measure in the law presents a virtue that will not have escaped you: it allows the Assembly to ensure real and concrete control. These are no longer broad and vague measures, such as the Secretary of State defends them on the bench. While Mr. Taquet gave a wisdom opinion, he wondered how the Government could adapt to developments. The answer is simple: he'll come back here! I note that the Secretary of State and I are united by a mysterious link, since we always meet together to discuss the same type of text. I would have preferred that we should have met as substitutes for a football game, but that's how it turns out that it's to talk about the health crisis – which says a lot about the current situation! To sum up, I would prefer that concrete measures, however bad, be included in a text that we can then control and modify and not be limited to announcements made by the President and his opaque defence counsel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u276	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u277	I agree with what my colleague Ugo Bernalicis has just said, except that it is a matter of putting a state of emergency measure in a bill that is supposed to get us out of the state of emergency. You automatically plan, automatically, because the President of the Republic has so decided, that the curfew will be in force until 30 June – even if it is extended until 23 hours where the circulation of the virus would be less active. While we are in a phase of exit from the health crisis, how can you give confidence to our fellow citizens, if you only extend the measures of the state of health emergency? If you wanted to be clear, transparent and consistent, you would first have proposed a text providing for an extension of the state of emergency until the end of June, and eventually, but only in a second stage, measures to exit that state of emergency. I would remind you that today the state of health emergency is still in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u278	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u279	I welcome the Government's wisdom on this measure, which provides for and makes possible a mechanism that normally applies only in the context of a state of health emergency, but which we are transposing in the context of the current transitional period, in view of the health and epidemic situation in our territory, in order to be able to gradually emerge from the state of health emergency and to reopen certain activities as soon as possible and gradually. Therefore, a precise definition is necessary. That is why we are introducing this amendment, which aims to shift curfew time to 23 hours from 9 June. This arrangement would apply no later than 30 June, from which date no curfew will be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u280	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u281	I hear the colleague's willingness to slightly relax the liberticide measures. A curfew, however, remains a curfew, whether set at twenty-one hours or twenty-three hours. In addition, how would you define a territory where the virus would circulate less? For the past year and a half, we still do not know how to assess the circulation of the virus. What criteria should be taken into account: hospitalization? the number of tests – again and again – falsely positive, never faced with clinical reality? It does not seem appropriate to me to move towards maintaining the curfew.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u282	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u283	The Dem Group notes with satisfaction this limitation of curfew. It is important that we be consistent and that the public speech that has spoken be translated into the bill. On the other hand, we are asking ourselves a real question of substance. During the whole of last night's sitting, the rapporteur explained to us that we could not set limits in the law, detail processes, prohibitions or limitations. Today, however, he is doing so on his own initiative, with regard to one of the most restrictive measures that restrict freedom: curfew. Since the beginning of the discussion, there has been a lack of coherence. It is now possible to observe it clearly. Yesterday, when we discussed the Dem Group's amendments to change the dates of the health pass, we were told that this type of clarification was unacceptable. Today, the amendment from the majority group, one pillar of the majority says to the other that it accepts that limitations are laid down. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] It is a bit a pity that we are being forced to do so, even if, on the merits, we are obviously satisfied that, for once, limits are set.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u284	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u285	This debate around the boundaries reminds me of the famous quote attributed to Francis Blanche: "Once we have passed the boundaries, there are no limits. This sentence is rather humorous, while the current situation is not really ready to smile. We will do against bad fortune good heart: between a curfew set at twenty-three hours and a curfew set at twenty-one hours, we obviously prefer, like all our fellow citizens, the first option. However, I would like to emphasize the incongruity of referring to curfew in this bill, when such a mechanism is intended to apply only in the context of a state of health emergency. Once again, this illustrates the "Canada Dry" side of this text: it seems to grant freedom, may appear as a bill that opens doors but, in reality, when you look closely at it, it is not yet the case. If one adds the health pass and the blurring around the definition of a large gathering, knowing that one completely excludes the necessary precision of density and the objective criteria for fixing gauges, one does not know where one goes. We fully accept a curfew of twenty-one hours. If it starts only at twenty-three hours, it will be even better. But everything will go very well in July, when there will be no curfew at all and we will finally have a start at the start of a state of emergency, which, it should be recalled, will not be the case at all in June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u286	Mr Philippe Benassaya's amendment No 216 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u287	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic has the floor to support Amendment No. 227, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u288	Yesterday we referred to the health pass and the use that the Government could make of this tool for major events. In the commission of laws, we wanted to make it very clear in the law that, apart from this type of demonstration, no one could condition access to a private place, such as a restaurant, a cinema or a business, to the possession of a sanitary pass or to the demonstration of a negative serology at Covid-19. It seems to me important to include this provision clearly in the law, so that every citizen of our country can oppose it to any private person who has the idea of imposing on anyone who wishes to enter his establishment the presentation of such a pass. I tabled this amendment in committee, where it was adopted. I wrote it a little differently to make it more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u290	He is in favour, this clarification is welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u291	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u292	It is complementary to the one we have just adopted, since it provides for a sanction against those who violate the prohibition to require the presentation of a health pass in private places whose openness to the public is not regulated under this Act. Indeed, if it is not accompanied by a sanction, this prohibition will be futile. I would point out that I had drawn the attention of the national representative, during the debate on the AllAntiCovid application, to a pitfall in the operative part: the absence of a sanction provided for against companies which would impose its use in their internal rules. We also have no guarantee that a coffee maker, an operator of a theatre or cinema, who would impose on the entrance the health pass in breach of the text that we are going to vote for, will be punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u294	The purpose of the mechanism proposed in the bill is to be readable to our fellow citizens and to allow them to invoke the provision that our house has just voted in case of abuse. It does not seem to me appropriate to add a specific repressive mechanism, especially Article 1e (VII) already provides that the provisions of Article L. 3136-1 of the Public Health Code relating to the system of sanctions for non-compliance with health regulations apply to the transitional arrangements. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u296	While the Government shares the spirit of the provision inserted in the committee of laws to limit the introduction of the pass to the cases provided for by the law, so as not to allow scattered initiatives to develop that would extend it to the activities of everyday life, and obviously shares your concern, Mr Houlié, to ensure the effectiveness of this prohibition, the rapporteur has pointed out that this effectiveness is already based on the ordinary legal sanctions provided for under the regime of exit from the state of emergency, which would work just as well if the pass were to be introduced in the context of a declared state of emergency of health – something that no one wishes of course. Failure to do so, whether it is a use of the pass outside the cases provided for by law or, on the contrary, a lack of control over its presentation at the entrance to the establishments and other places hosting the activities and events concerned, will be covered by the contraventions already provided for in article L. 3136-1 of the Public Health Code, namely a fifth-class fine. It seems to me that this amendment is satisfactory and I am therefore making a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u297	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u298	A fifth class violation of up to EUR 1500 in fine and not increased in case of recidivism, one can see clearly the interest that an operator would have in violating the law by unduly imposing a health pass if his turnover was improved. That is why the fine that I propose is much more important in order to be dissuasive, that is to say 5000 euros, with a doubling in case of recidivism. I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u299	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u300	This amendment says a lot about the state of mind, which I already described yesterday as totally coercive, in the management of this health crisis. If every time a new binding mechanism is put in place, we ask ourselves what penalties should be provided for, sometimes even harder than ordinary law, it means, in essence, that we do not trust our fellow citizens to comply with the rules imposing these prohibitions and obligations. I think it is, once again, very symptomatic of the Government's failure to build confidence among our fellow citizens in the measures it is taking. If he could convince them that they are in the right direction, that they are in their interest, our fellow citizens would adhere to them and respect them accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u301	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u302	I found it interesting to have our colleague's amendment for the simple reason that, unfortunately, private businesses or other places are already advertising by inviting us to come there from the moment we can show a sanitary pass. Why not use the provisions of ordinary law, in this case Article L. 3136-1 of the Public Health Code, but it would have been even better to do so since 17 March 2020. Staying in the common law to deal with this health crisis would have avoided being confronted by a government that offers only elements of deprivation of liberty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u303	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u304	We debated in part last night the health pass, we are doing it again at the moment, and I believe that it is indeed a good policy to want, if voted, to restrict its use to the maximum extent possible. However, I would remind you that we are debating possible sanctions, a fine as foreseen by this amendment, while the legal soundness of this pass is subject to caution: the Council of State has not pronounced itself, since this pass comes from an amendment that the Government took out of the hat on 3 May, and the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL) only pronounces itself tomorrow! And we're in the process of distributing the right and the wrong points, proposing fines. It is a fact that, without sanction, a rule quickly becomes purely theoretical and I understand the reason for the amendment, but I find that it takes a form of imprecision, because these 5000 euros are not attached to an existing quantum and, moreover, is it a fine per offence or to apply it after finding that the infringement is constituted? This would require a little more clarification to find out where we're going more precisely. But maybe Sacha Houlié can enlighten us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u305	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 47 and 48, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u306	These amendments complement each other, Mr President. We have been asking for clarification since yesterday because it is essential to line up this bill, as has been further demonstrated by the consideration of previous amendments adopted. The aim here is to clarify the concept of the active circulation of the virus, especially since the Prime Minister is authorised on this basis to take important measures to restore free movement or to open establishments receiving from the public. These important powers conferred on the Prime Minister will extend over a long period, almost five months, during which Parliament will not be able to intervene in this matter. We therefore propose that the concept of active circulation of the virus be defined from an average incidence rate over a week of at least 250 positive cases per 100,000 inhabitants – Amendment No 47 – or 400 positive cases per 100,000 inhabitants – Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u307	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u308	The incidence rate is of course an important criterion in the choice of measures to be taken, but other criteria must also be taken into account in the assessment of the circulation of the virus: the increase in the rate, which can vary and in a brutal way, as well as the numbers of hospitalizations and those of the occupation of the resuscitation services. The incidence rate alone is not in itself sufficient. The opinion is therefore against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u309	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u310	Another element of clarification needed in this context is to limit the validity of the measures taken in the lightened state of emergency under Article 1 to 30 days, because these measures are not limited in time and the validity period of the overall system extends over almost five months, without even a precise definition of the active circulation of the virus. This limitation to 30 days would require at least the executive to renew by a new decree the measures taken, which should therefore be proportionate to the health circumstances of the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u312	It is not necessary to make a new decree to assess whether a regulatory measure remains proportionate to the health circumstances of the moment: the judge does so in all circumstances. If I understand your intentions, my dear colleague, this amendment seems to me to be all the less essential since it could lead to normative inflation which can be completely dispensed with. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u313	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u314	Paragraphs 10 and 11 deal with territorialized measures, which are often taken unilaterally by the prefects. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore calls for these measures to be taken in coordination with local elected representatives – mayors, presidents of departmental and regional councils – and representatives of their constituencies, namely parliamentarians, in order to ensure that the views of the various representatives of the territory concerned are fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u315	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u316	The territorial declination of measures to deal with the epidemic is already the subject of extensive consultations by the prefects of local elected representatives. However, your amendment goes further by providing for coordination. I think the 4D bill – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration, decomplexation – will provide a more opportune framework for this kind of debate. I would remind you that tomorrow it will be presented to the Council of Ministers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u318	Opinion against this amendment as well as the two that will follow – including your next amendment – because it does not seem to me that the inclusion in the law of the mandatory and systematic nature of the consultation is justified, bearing in mind that the Government is committed to consulting as much as necessary with local elected officials and all territorial stakeholders, including devolved services, before any territorialised or even national decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u319	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u320	I thought that this amendment would not be a problem, as it is obvious. You say, Mr Secretary of State, that what he is proposing is already being done, but it is more or less true according to the prefects and according to the places – I can give you a lot of examples, like no doubt many colleagues here. If that goes without saying, it goes even better by saying it, in this case in the law, in order to make it compulsory to coordinate with local elected officials and to consult them in each territorialized decision-making. It will be a confirmation of what is already being done, where it is, while at the same time allowing it to be done everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u321	I have before me two amendments, Nos 191 and 66, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u322	Consultation with local elected officials is far from automatic. In some departments, the reopening of markets, for example, has been blocked by the prefect or by the ARS – sometimes the prefect being himself a former director of ARS. It turns out that in my department, everything went well, but Mr. Gosselin could talk about the department of the English Channel where that was not the case. I could even mention the case of a department bordering mine, the Loire-Atlantique, where not everything went well either, and where markets could not reopen. The consultation and listening of local elected officials are not always natural among the prefects, especially since some like to play the leader. This is not the way to promote a soothing society and to give elected representatives their rightful place. Mayors and departmental or regional councillors are elected for the competencies they possess and must be able to exercise. Only co-construction and coordination between the administration, which follows its own logic, and the elected one, who knows its territory, make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u323	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u324	We simply ask the executive and its representative in the department, the prefect, to show confidence in local elected officials. Indeed, they have often been consulted – sometimes a little late on some issues. The Government has been able to rely on local authorities and their elected representatives to set up vaccination centres and, now, large-scale vaccines. This only works because the local authorities are involved in the process and make available to many staff every day of the week and weekend as well as on public holidays. The vaccination campaign would not work without the commitment of the local authorities. We wish to include in the law the obligation to consult local elected officials. While this has taken place in some departments, this has not been the case everywhere. This is a common-sense amendment that should not pose any difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u326	In the case of Amendment No 191, the opinion is unfavourable, as it was in the case of No 189. As far as No 66 is concerned, it seems to me to be satisfactory in practice. The system must maintain flexibility and responsiveness, so the opinion will also be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u327	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u328	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u329	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u330	Mr rapporteur, you say that the amendment is satisfied in practice, but it depends a lot on the departments and the prefects. Paul Molac has tried me a little: indeed, we all have at the head of departments where permission for access to beaches and derogations for markets have been very complicated to obtain. In a period like the one we are going through, I see no difficulty in making the state the final decision-maker. France is a rule of law and the general interest is represented, in the department, by the prefect whose action can be controlled and possibly appealed before the administrative court, according to the usual procedures – that is the least of the things. However, upstream consultations with local elected officials must take place. To say that in practice this is not a problem, it is not true. There are many places where this is still a problem. The Government is happy to find attentive local elected officials, whom it can consult on Friday evening at 19:30 to find out what they think of the regional and departmental elections, asking them to respond before Monday noon. But they can also be associated with other types of decisions and written in the law. Once again, whether the representative of the State is the guarantor of the collective and general interest, it does not pose any difficulty, but at least it is necessary to involve the elected representatives and to include them in a partnership with the prefect, and not in an unbalanced relationship that sometimes turns into a duel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u331	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 79 and 80, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u332	My colleague Stéphane Claireaux being retained in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, I defend his amendments. Article 1 of the draft law on the management of exit from the state of emergency provides for the possibility of enabling prefects to adapt all measures to combat covid-19 such as quarantine, vaccination passports, the organisation of certain public events such as festivals, curfews. Since the health contexts are very different in different territories, whether hexagonal or ultramarine, decisions and measures need to be territorialized in order to best respond to the situation on the ground. Amendment No 79 therefore seeks to ensure that the provisions of Article 1 can be systematically adapted to the specific statutory and health requirements of each overseas community. Amendment No 80 is a withdrawal amendment. It also aims to ensure that the provisions of Article 1 are systematically adapted to the specificities of local regulations and health, in each of the overseas communities with special status covered by Article 74 of the Constitution, for the same reasons as I have just explained: the health context is very different according to the territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u333	The incidence rate has dropped to 120!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u334	... it is necessary to territorialise decisions, in the hexagon as well as overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u336	As I had already mentioned in connection with an amendment by Mrs Ménard, these amendments are satisfied in practice. Health measures are obviously adapted overseas and the decree of 24 October 2020 contains many provisions to this effect. However, providing for automatic and legal authorization is not possible in the name of the autonomy of regulatory power. I call for the amendments to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u338	I will answer you on Amendment No 79, but the reasoning will also be valid for No 80. Amendment No 79 is intended to give the State representative in the overseas communities an automatic and full right to adapt the animal health measures taken by the Prime Minister. However, the possibility of implementing the measures adopted by the Prime Minister concerns all representatives of the state, both in metropolitan France and in the overseas communities. With regard to New Caledonia and French Polynesia, the draft law empowers the State representative to adapt the measures to local circumstances. These authorizations have been fully used to date. They allow the prefects to take measures adapted to the situation of the overseas territories, such as the curfew on the weekend that was imposed in eight communes of Guyana, starting on 16 April – this is one example among many others. However, there is no particular reason to grant automatic authorization to the overseas State representative: such a provision would create an unjustified difference in treatment between the departments of metropolitan France and those of overseas France. That is why I propose that you withdraw these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u339	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u340	Mr Secretary of State, we agree on the ultramarine specificities such as those of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon: the intention of the Government is to allow the prefect to adapt the measures locally. You have referred only to curfew, but, if I understand correctly, this will also be the case for other provisions such as isolation and compelling motives. In these circumstances, I withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u341	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u342	This amendment is in line with the philosophy we adopted earlier to strengthen the curfew framework and to clarify its regime. I propose that you give the prefect, empowered by the Prime Minister, the opportunity to lift the curfew before 30 June in the territories where the health situation would improve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u344	Your amendment seems to me to be quite timely and reasonable, for two reasons. First of all, it is a derogatory faculty, not a constraint. In addition, it would be open only in territories with low virus circulation, subject to health conditions. The committee has delivered an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u346	On this amendment and its consequences, the Government's analysis diverges somewhat from that of the Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u347	Very good majority amendment! Do not deprive yourself of this pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u348	The Government may sometimes have a different opinion from that of the majority, and vice versa. These are things that happen. The amendment is intended to enable the Prime Minister to empower the state representative to lift the curfew early in the event of a low circulation of the virus. If it is envisaged that curfews will be maintained on a wider time frame in the territories facing a more degraded than anticipated health situation, on the other hand, it is not intended to allow the prefect to lift the curfew in full in the event of a low circulation of the virus. Indeed, the management of the health crisis has been based since its inception on the authorization of the prefect to take more stringent local measures than national ones and not to alleviate them, in line with the main principles of the administrative police. Moreover, the introduction of this provision could send a somewhat inappropriate signal to our fellow citizens, in a time when everyone will still have to show responsibility to avoid a worsening of the health situation at the threshold of the summer period, because the various indicators do not suggest a sufficient drop in the circulation of the virus next June. Finally, local curfew reliefs as tourist movements develop as summer approaches and during the summer period could rapidly degrade certain situations as a result of high population mixing too early, which would lead to more stringent measures being taken. For these reasons, I suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u349	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u350	Mr Secretary of State, the French show responsibility and where the virus no longer circulates actively, it would be quite logical to allow the prefects to lift the curfew, which, let us recall, is not an anomaly but a deprivation of liberty. As soon as it is possible to free our fellow citizens from the curfew because the epidemic falls back a lot in a territory, we must do so. That is why I support Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u351	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u352	We have a small possibility of opening up, let us not deprive ourselves of it. Many of us want certain measures to be territorialised, where possible. No one obviously asks that this be the case if the epidemic blazes, but why refuse to territorialise effectively exorbitant measures of the common law? Secretary of State, you are referring to the summer period: excuse me for taking you back, but we are not there yet. In all cases, there will be no curfew after 30 June. Our colleague proposes to anticipate because June is not the month of the great transhumances, which take place in July and August. There will be no longer even an extended weekend, the one of Pentecost being at the end of May. Of course, a few people will go on vacation, but there will be no surge as you seem to say. The sense of responsibility of the prefects was stressed earlier. Sometimes I have struggled with my department, but I recognize that he is the ultimate guarantor of the general interest. Lightened by precise figures, they are able to stop a number of measures in one direction – for once! – more favorable, which we should all rejoice at.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u353	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u354	The adoption of this amendment would show that, despite the extension of the curfew, the state of health emergency is removed, the most stringent measures of which – confinement and curfew – apply to the entire national territory. If the Government could show a little openness, including towards its own majority, we would probably come out better collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u355	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u356	Sometimes I find it difficult to understand the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u357	It's not just you, Mr. Molac. So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u358	We chose to curb the epidemic; But there are territories where the virus circulates very little. In some communities, such as the Monts d'Arrée in Finistère, the incidence rate is only 20 or 40 per 100,000 inhabitants. This is not the first time I've talked to you about it because these territories have hardly been affected by the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u359	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u360	On the other hand, they had to bend to the curfew as early as nine o'clock – a measure they perceived as deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u361	Yes, it's aberrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u362	If you think that measures can be tightened in the event of heavy traffic, why not lighten them in the event of very low traffic? I don't understand this lack of parallelism. I had asked Olivier Véran a question of topicality in this regard, who replied that it was interesting, but that we would not, as if there was a rule superior to all other considerations, and that we had to comply with it. No, the measures must be adapted to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u363	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u364	Like, common sense prevails! Yesterday, in the sitting, as before in committee, we have constantly sought to border the law, and the amendment that has just been adopted contributes to it. As for Amendment No. 50, it seeks to strengthen parliamentary control over the lightened state of emergency by providing for the immediate transmission to the National Assembly and the Senate of the general measures taken by the prefects of departments, empowered by the Prime Minister, in addition to the measures decreed by the Government. It is important to continue to have information on decisions taken in different territories and to monitor the actions of the prefects – even if the problem does not arise in my department, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u365	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u366	The weekly briefing note on the measures taken by the Government in the context of the health crisis, which the Prime Minister sends to Parliament, seems to me to be sufficiently comprehensive. In case of need, all prefectural orders remain accessible in the collections and administrative acts, which are available online. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u367	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u368	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u369	I put to the vote Rule 1, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u370	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 213 Number of votes cast 211 Absolute majority 106 For adoption 103 Against 108
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u371	Castaner, where are you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u372	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u373	[[Applause on the banks of the LR groups,DemetUDI-I]] [[Same movements]] This vote necessarily disturbs colleagues, and I understand them. Yesterday afternoon and this night, numerous alerts were launched on all sides, by pillars of the majority as well as by opposition members. When one refuses to answer – I do not target the Secretary of State on the bench, but other members of the Government, who are absent – when one treats national representation by contempt, that is what happens! We find ourselves in a difficult situation which will be legally inconclusive and in a stalemate; But it's been hanging on your nose for several days. As I said yesterday, you despise Parliament. I hope that this warning will lead you to change your practices: you may be thinking about re-visiting clauses and ensuring Parliament's control. This one, contrary to what you may have imagined, is neither servile nor docile; It represents our fellow citizens, it represents the nation of which we are proud to be the emanation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u374	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u375	[[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats voted unanimously against Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u376	Shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u377	From the beginning, we had set red lines and made it clear what we wanted to discuss and what we were able to accept. But we see that dialogue and listening have been lacking,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u378	No lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u379	...despite work that began well ahead of the public sitting, from the law commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u380	Close the sound, we get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u381	Veran, quit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u382	[[Applause on the banks of the groupsDem,LR andUDI-I]] That is why the whole group decided to vote against Article 1. We wish to discuss the points of disagreement. It is the role of parliamentarians to devise a clear, intelligible and coherent law. The French need it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u383	That's good, Latomb!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u384	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u385	I would like to make a point of order on the basis of Rule 48(1), which concerns the agenda of this House. [[Vifapplause on the banks of the UDI-I and LR groups]] What has just happened shows that when we despise Parliament, even the most benevolent parliamentarians begin to get rid of each other. As we debate a subject that is anything but neutral because it concerns the fundamental freedoms of our fellow citizens and the fight against the covid-19 virus in which we have all been mobilized for more than a year, it is aberrant that the Minister of Solidarity and Health is not there tonight. Will he teach us lessons again, as he once did – we all remember – saying that he had seen the MPs cheering up on television and wondering if we had overcome the epidemic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u386	Veran, quit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u387	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] No, we had just done our work as parliamentarians! This time again, we alerted the Government, amendment after amendment, intervention after intervention. The Government must review its copy and resume discussions only when a new Article 1e r has been proposed for national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u388	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u389	I am also speaking on the basis of Article 48(1). Like my colleagues, I would like to point out that many of us have warned you about the risk of settling in, as if nothing had happened, in the emergency regime of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u390	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u391	You're right, comrade!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u392	We have always said that we must be effective in the fight against the pandemic, but without putting democracy in parentheses, because it would be the opposite of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u393	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u394	You've treated all these alerts with contempt. Yesterday, we saw a summum of contempt for the national representation: the questions, including benevolent ones – of which mine was a part – on the vaccine pass, to which we were not opposed in principle but whose modalities asked us, received no answer, not even a look!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u395	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u396	They were texting each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u397	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC and FI groups]] Were they only heard? At some point, that's enough! Parliament must regain its rights. The emergency regime cannot serve the comfort of a Government that mocks the National Assembly and, through it, the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u398	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u399	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u400	The suspension is ex officio after the point of order. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u401	I, too, refer to Rule 48(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Beyond the question of contempt and the lack of answers since the beginning of the debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u402	It smells like the end of the reign!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u403	... including in the motion to reject, but also in the general discussion which normally provides the Government with an opportunity to respond immediately to the questions posed by the deputies of all groups, the text had shortcomings. We have all, the majority and the opposition, sought to border and clarify the law, in order to reassure the people who are asking themselves every day what the rule is, what must be done and what must not be done. These elements are missing in the text, which needs to be reworked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u404	Second reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u405	So this vote actually does you a favor. If it had been adopted, the bill would have been sent to the slaughterhouse because the Constitutional Council would have ruled it, in its current wording, contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u406	Respect democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u407	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u408	My point of order is based on the same provisions as those of colleagues. You keep walking on Parliament – I mentioned it earlier on a curfew annex provision, which kept the state of emergency going and raised other substantive problems. More than a year after the arrival of the pandemic in our country, you cannot continue to decide on defence counsel in defence counsel or to announce your choice of press conference of the President of the Republic at a press conference. This is where things have to happen! This vote reminds you of this in a staggering way, with the rejection coming in particular from the ranks of a part of the majority. I am very pleased with this political and parliamentary moment. It is now that the debate can begin, and that is very good.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u409	What a construction site!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u410	The alert applies not only to this day, but also to those to come. For the proper organisation of the debates, you will probably have us recast on Article 1 at the end of the examination of the text, and then you may be in sufficient number to have it adopted, but this vote will have to be taken into account. You cannot handle this crisis on your own, in your own corner, according to your own desires. In fact, has the Secretary of State on the bench ever attended a single defence counsel? That is the smallness of the cenacle that decides our daily life, even in the smallest detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u411	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u412	[[Mr. RemyRebeyrotterit]] I think there's a method problem. When you want union, you have to be able to build it. When we propose something, we must take a step towards those who are in the opposition, or even in the majority, to take into account what they say, because they are representatives of the people. It is clear that the Government – it was even the spirit of 2017 – decides, since the Assembly, which became the Chamber of Registration, has only to endorse. Democracy is not that; Parliament is not that, and it reminds you today. Yet you have a very responsible majority, which supports you, but you have to listen, which the Government does not do. Intermediate bodies and elected officials have a role: not listening to them is not in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u413	The points of order were raised. A suspension of our work was requested; She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u414	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u415	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u416	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 13, 56, 112 and 136, which tend to delete the article. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u417	I assume that this amendment to delete Article 2 is not surprising to my colleagues or to the Secretary of State. The Law Commission has been working to delete the second paragraph of this article, as the Council of State has criticized the drafting of the article in its opinion on the bill. With the rejection of Rule 1, Parliament has just shown that it has regained its full powers. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support the deletion of Article 2, which would be consistent with the vote that has just taken place!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u418	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u419	In the Committee on Laws, we adopted an amendment which allowed localized declarations of state of emergency between 2 June and 31 August 2021, subject of course to the fact that they concern territories representing less than 10 per cent of the national population, to establish the state of emergency health regime for an initial period not of two months, as the Government wished, but of a month, a much more reasonable duration. The Government's amendment No. 232, which we are going to consider in a moment, aims to restore the duration of two months. I imagine that it will be adopted, just as I imagine that we will be called upon again, in second deliberation, on Article 1,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u420	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u421	Don't imagine it for a second!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u422	... since the vote was not in accordance with the wishes of the Government. The measures provided for in Article 2 are excessive. The Council of State also noted the complexity of the proposed scheme, which would require that the text should provide for the procedure for assessing whether the 10 per cent threshold of the national population should be crossed in the event of successive declarations of the state of emergency. That is why I am requesting the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u423	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u424	There is no doubt that the Government will submit article 1 for a second deliberation. In the meantime, its rejection has made the bill more than banal. It is of course necessary to find the legal means to get out of the state of emergency and to ensure the health security of our citizens. I would like to make that clear at a time when I am defending this amendment to delete the article because I have an idea of the small music that the majority and the Government will be tempted to make heard, arguing that the opposition is more concerned about the adoption of its amendments than about the health of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u425	If you say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u426	That's not the case! We simply believe that certain conditions must be met in order to establish a state of health emergency. You will discuss this with the members of your majority, Mr Secretary of State, but they are still not present in the House. The emptiness is sometimes more than full! This amendment to delete Article 2 illustrates an essential point of divergence between us: we consider that we are in the process of leaving the state of health emergency while you are planning Article 1e r – we will see what will happen to this article – measures such as curfew and sanitary pass – whose use will be subject to gauges of varying sizes: it is a real artistic blur! As for Article 2, it opens the possibility of reinstituting this exceptional regime in territorial districts representing less than 10% of the national population. Depending on population density, the territories concerned could be very large, or on the contrary very concentrated. What would happen, moreover, for the territories which make up more than 10 per cent of the national population? In an area such as Île-de-France, some territories may be affected and others may not. Conversely, some regions should meet at three or four to reach the threshold. In short, all this is unclear and we cannot adopt the text as it stands. However, we can be pleased that the provision that a state of health emergency declared between 2 June and 31 August may last two months has not been adopted by the Law Committee. Be aware: as we begin to leave the state of emergency, it will remain possible, in some parts of the country, to decree this regime! Of course, I do not want to mention the ultramarine territories, which face a very specific health situation. Guyana is a large territory like Portugal, which requires appropriate measures. In any case, the introduction of health emergency measures in the territories of the Hexagon, which account for more than 10 per cent of the national population for a period of one month, raises real questions. This is in no way a disdainful dismissal, but, at this stage, unless we receive precise answers to our questions, it seems wise to propose the deletion of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u427	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u428	I am surprised that we can discuss an article that refers to Article 1, which has just been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u429	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u430	Without going back to everything that has just been said, I would like to stress the opinion of the Council of State, which has denounced the risk of a form of administrative absurdity linked to disparate assessments of the need for a state of emergency in different territories. That is why, together with several of my colleagues, we propose the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u431	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u432	The Law Committee has deleted Article 2 II to the satisfaction of the authors of these various amendments. However, I would like to point out, with regard to the I of the article, which is maintained, that it does not have the effect of maintaining the state of health emergency, including in a territorialised manner. After 1 June, however, a state of health emergency may be declared at any time by decree in the Council of Ministers if the health situation so warrants. This article merely recalls, after the law of 9 July 2020 organising the exit from the state of health emergency, that the transitional regime is intended to apply where the state of health emergency is not in force. For these various reasons, I request the withdrawal of these amendments to delete the article; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u433	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u434	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u435	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u436	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] After the rejection of Article 1, the discussion of Article 2 raises difficulties. We therefore ask for a suspension of the sitting until nine o'clock, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u437	She's right, my colleague. I suggest, however, that we limit it to ten minutes. The rejection of Article 1 is going to cause further debate and Thursday is a holiday, I remind you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u438	Yes, ten minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u439	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u440	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that before the suspension, amendments to delete Article 2 were defended and received negative opinions from the committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u441	On Amendment No 232, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 232, which is the subject of two sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u442	The purpose of this amendment is to restore the provisions of Article 2 allowing localized declarations of state of health emergency made between 2 June and 31 August 2021 to have an initial period of two months before extension by law, provided that they cover territories representing less than 10 per cent of the national population. This provision is essential in order to respond to a serious and localised deterioration of the health situation during the summer period, taking into account the constraints of the parliamentary agenda. I would add that this mechanism is precisely regulated, since only declarations made between 2 June and 31 August can benefit from it, with the additional condition of not covering territories representing more than 10 % of the national population. This amendment also incorporates the clarifications suggested by your rapporteur in committee, in order to clarify the application of the scheme to several successive declarations if one of them leads to crossing the 10% threshold of the population subject to the health emergency regime. It incorporates another proposal from your rapporteur, which provides for a report to be submitted to Parliament after a month of implementation of the scheme. In our view, it provides all the necessary guarantees and responds to a number of concerns that you have expressed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u443	I have before me two identical sub-amendments, Nos 233 and 234. The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No 233 and give the committee's opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u444	This is a favourable opinion, subject of course to the adoption of this sub-amendment, which aims to ensure that the scheme applies from 10 July rather than 2 June. I welcome the fact that the Government's amendment contains two important elements that I proposed: enhanced information from Parliament and clarification of the mechanism for implementing the system. I believe that the criticisms which have been legitimately expressed in committee have been heard and that the House can adopt this amendment as amended. This new deadline covers periods during which Parliament is able to meet without difficulty; It is also consistent with the amendment adopted in committee, which allows curfew to be maintained until 30 June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u445	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support sub-amendment No 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u446	This identical sub-amendment, drawn up with the rapporteur, was tabled on behalf of the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u447	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u448	What is the Government's opinion on these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u449	These two sub-amendments share the objective of the Government's amendment to reduce the period during which localized declarations of state of emergency will have an initial period of validity of two months before extension by law. The period provided for in the initial text which the Government's amendment re-established runs from 2 June to 31 August. If the introduction in committee of a supervised capacity to maintain a curfew is likely to alleviate the need to declare a state of health emergency by the end of June, this consideration will no longer be valid from 1 July. In the event of a localized declaration of a state of health emergency in early July, the adoption of this sub-amendment would lead to Parliament having to meet again before the very beginning of August to extend this state of emergency. The Government therefore considers that an intermediate solution could have been to give priority to the date of 1 July. Therefore, we rely on the wisdom of your Assembly on these two sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u450	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u451	I would like to understand your amendment, Mr Secretary of State. If, for example, the Government declares a state of emergency in the Far East – the Far East, that is 5.5 million people, thus less than 10 per cent of the national population – its decree will be valid for a maximum of two months, if I understand correctly. Let us imagine that after six weeks, you took a second decree to extend the state of emergency to the Hauts-de-France, i.e. about 9% to 10% of the national population. Is that to say that the state of emergency would end in the Far East before the remaining fifteen days or, since you have extended it by a second decree to a territory with a population of less than 10% of the national population, are we going back to two months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u452	Long live technocrats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u453	We're listening to Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u454	That is where I find it difficult to understand the content of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u455	We didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u456	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u457	Do not get angry, ladies and gentlemen, especially since this matter has been debated in committee and you have had to attend, I imagine. The application of the provision to this case has been specified at the request of the committee, Member: in your example, the first region, the Great East, will remain subject to the state of emergency regime for two months; The second, the Hauts-de-Frances in your example, will, however, be for a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u458	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u459	Notwithstanding these changes in the time frame for implementation, however, the commission had rejected the Government's amendment on a matter of principle. The aim of this amendment is to introduce into a text which is not a text for the deployment of the state of emergency a measure which is strictly a matter of the state of emergency. One always returns to the same subject which is anything but anecdotal since it has led a part of the majority to join the opposition to reject Article 1. We need clarity: either we are in a state of health emergency and we tell our fellow citizens, or we are not there and we do not re-introduce measures that fall entirely within the scope of this. We therefore reiterate our opposition in principle to this government amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u460	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u461	I ask for a suspension of the sitting in order to understand this new political situation and to analyse the impact of the adoption of this amendment when Article 1 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u462	The suspension is right, but we have just made one, my dear colleague. This will therefore be short.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u463	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u464	The meeting was resumed. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u465	The Government's amendment aims to cancel its defeat in committee last week on the issue of the deadline. However, the lack of clarity in the original text does not seem to me to be satisfied. It is not our intention to object to the possibility of taking measures such as those envisaged in the amendment. I am thinking of island or ultramarine territories, although it is obviously not a question of stigmatizing them. In view of the situation that Mayotte and Guyana have experienced, there is a need to build up the capacity to act. With regard to Guyana, the difficulty lies not insularity but in its land border with Brazil, which, 600 kilometres long, is one of the largest in our country. As far as the two-month deadline is concerned, I am losing myself a little, like Mr Brindeau and others. You claim that it is reduced to one month, but in the drafting of the amendment as in its summary statement, the two months are maintained, at least for part of the territory. You're taking a step forward, a step backwards. The result: the deadline is two months, with a report submitted to Parliament after a month – the beautiful affair! Our control won't work. This does not meet our expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u466	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u467	I put to the vote Amendment No 232, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u468	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 235 Number of votes cast 235 Absolute majority 118 For adoption 178 Against 57
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u469	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 14 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u470	Since there is no reason to maintain a state of health emergency beyond 1 June, the amendment aims to delete Article 3 which is designed to adapt the measures of a state of emergency to the overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u471	I have before me three identical amendments Nos 15, 137 and 205, which tend to delete the article. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u472	I hope that we will devote a little time to article 4 because it severely violates the rights of individuals, especially as the Government maintains the vagueness of its demands. The article allows law enforcement and state officials, namely the prefects, to keep people locked up on the pretext that the place they chose for their quarantine would not satisfy certain conditions, which have never been defined or discussed. These individuals would be forced to carry out their quarantine in isolation sites whose nature has not been discussed or defined. Article 4 should be rejected in order to guarantee the rights of persons. I would remind you that the possibility of detaining people against their will in the interests of health is reserved for psychiatry. Moreover, it is very strictly supervised and involves the intervention of a judge who ensures that the rights of persons are respected. There is no mention here of any control over deprivation of liberty. I hope my colleagues will understand that the human rights waiting article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u473	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u474	It is absurd to propose such an article in which the place imposed for quarantine will not be controlled while it will be isolated to prevent the spread of the virus. That is why I propose that it be abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u475	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 205.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u476	There are several problems with the article. First, it is difficult to perceive what it covers. In which place will you house a sick person whose choice of quarantine place you reject? How will you check this last one? What is particularly shocking is that you restrict people's freedom by assigning them to a place as if a court decision had ordered it. You're also thinking about equipping them with a bracelet? I would like further explanations because I do not understand the operation of the device. Furthermore, I do not see how the Constitutional Council could accept such an attack on freedoms, but perhaps I am wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u477	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u478	Article 4 seeks first of all to standardize the legal regime on quarantine and isolation, which previously applied only overseas. It is then part of the strategy for the necessary strengthening of quarantine and isolation measures, which the Government has deployed since 24 April to deal with the spread of new variants, including Brazilian and Indian. Travellers from Brazil, Argentina, Chile, South Africa, India and Guyana are subject to a strict prefectural quarantine order for ten days upon arrival on national or metropolitan territory. Since Saturday, the scheme has involved seven additional countries. Its control was reinforced by the increase in the amount of fines – EUR 1000 for the flat-rate fine and EUR 1300 for the flat-rate plus fine – imposed in case of non-compliance with the measure. In order to ensure that this measure is reconciled with fundamental rights and freedoms, the reasons why the representative of the State may object to the choice of place of isolation and determine a new one have been clarified. This decision may be taken if the place does not meet the requirements to ensure the effectiveness of the quarantine or isolation measure. It will also help to monitor its application. On this basis, the Council of State found that the provision did not establish a relationship between rights and freedoms on the one hand and the constitutional purpose of health protection on the other hand, contrary to the Constitution. My opinion is therefore against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u479	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u480	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u481	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u482	We are still talking about the deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time of nationals of our country in places of isolation. It's never been seen before! How long have people been locked up on the pretext of protecting them – if they are sick, it would be better to treat them? What are the arguments that justify such aberration? If the measure applies to persons coming from abroad, the wording of the article does not specify it at all. The risk of drift is real, especially since the scheme is beyond the control of the judge of freedoms and detention. I denounce this measure as totally liberticide and terribly disturbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u483	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u484	I do not understand your argument, rapporteur. You claim that deprivation of liberty and house arrest are necessary for certain categories of persons coming from abroad, particularly in certain overseas territories. We can understand that, but the text does not indicate it. Why generalize deprivation of liberty when you claim to limit it to specific categories? Why not bring that precision? Why scare public opinion so much with this text depriving of freedom?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u485	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1271.u486	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Continuation of the draft law on the management of the exit from health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
