ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u2	Mr Paul Molac, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1321, concerning the situation of users and employment officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u3	In an economic context degraded by the health crisis, the situation of those seeking employment is worrying, as is the growing concern of Pôle Emploi agents about their working conditions and safety – an increased concern about the murder of one of them, in Valencia, which aroused a strong emotion. Despite the partial unemployment scheme, the pandemic has led to an increase in the number of jobseekers, which is likely to increase further in the year 2021, creating a climate of tension; Because, logically, every agent has to manage more and more files. Some fear an increase in irrational behaviour and violence. Today, the portfolio of a Pôle Emploi advisor contains, on average, files from 300 to 600 unemployed: the expected increase in their number will lead to an overload of work; Therefore, officers will not necessarily be able to carry out their duties. Trade unions have been reporting for years the lack of human resources and the deterioration of the quality of service – the priority given to digital technology, the systematic use of online services, have dehumanised it and deprived many unemployed people of an adequate response. The resulting digitisation and optimization of the workforce reach their limits. With automated allowance calculations, measures of return to coercive employment, deteriorating conditions of accompaniment, the anger and frustration of many users create deep tensions, which can lead to verbal or physical assaults, and even irreparable assaults. At a time when it would be necessary to strengthen the accompanying arrangements, significant budget cuts continue to be made: for example, a sharp reduction in the UNEDIC grant was announced for 2022. This disengagement by the State is also reflected in the precariousness of public employment workers: the increase in short contracts, part-time jobs and the use of civic service volunteers. In this unfortunately unfavourable economic situation, I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to strengthen the tasks of the public employment service, whether for the benefit of agents or users.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u5	Pôle Emploi's counsellors accompany people who are in a difficult situation: the loss of their jobs, sometimes accompanied by major social difficulties. Recent events have painfully shown us that this tension can degenerate. Before the Valencia tragedy, Pôle Emploi already had an advanced security policy: training counsellors in difficult situations, silent alarms, partnerships with law enforcement. Security diagnoses will now be speeded up, with a view to defining a new policy for the protection of agencies; follow-up of reports of aggression will be strengthened. At the same time, Pôle Emploi received additional staff in the fall to cope with the increase in the number of jobseekers: 2,150 counsellors were recruited, trained through tutoring, and are now operational. More recently, the Interministerial Committee on Cities decided to strengthen the staffing of sixty-six agencies located in priority neighbourhoods. I do not share your finding of a deterioration in the service rendered by Pôle emploi. The satisfaction rate of jobseekers, like that of enterprises, has been steadily increasing for several years and now exceeds 75%. So I would like to take this opportunity to thank all officers for their daily engagement. Finally, we have measured the impact of the economic crisis on the resources of UNEDIC and therefore on those of Pôle Emploi. The Minister of Labour, Elizabeth Borne, will pay particular attention to finding a solution to maintain the level of this resource or to compensate for its decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u6	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor to put his question, No 1303, on the common agricultural policy and sustainable production.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u7	Mr Minister for Agriculture, I echo the call signed so far by fifty-one parliamentarians, elected from the Central Massif or from other French mountain regions, "for a just common agricultural policy, serving sustainable production and mountain areas". All political sensitivities combined, we warn: there is an urgent need to ensure the survival of agricultural holdings, many of which are suspended, for lack of sufficient remuneration for their production and for health and climate hazards which not only repeat themselves, but go further. In sectors such as cattle and sheep farming, dairy or breastfeeding, more than 2000 farms are already disappearing each year. But this herbager farm does not just provide meat and dairy products of excellence: it stores carbon, contributes to biodiversity, makes our territories attractive by shaping our landscapes by its pastures; it creates local jobs in the agri-food processing sector; it ensures a certain quality of life and the maintenance of essential public services on a daily basis. However, considering the national and European trade-offs that are emerging for the future common agricultural policy – CAP – there is a great risk that our mountain herding, even though it has been able to preserve a model of high environmental value, will be sacrificed to the financing of the transition from the least virtuous systems to more sustainable production. My question therefore concerns three requirements on which the survival of thousands of holdings depends: that at least the combined aid of the first pillar of the CAP, which on average accounts for 80% of the income of beef breeders, should be maintained at their present level; that the additional costs associated with natural handicaps continue to be offset by a strong ICHN – compensation for natural handicaps; Finally, that the CAP should pay for all the environmental services provided by our family farms. What about these three requirements, Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, in the ongoing negotiations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u9	While the international trade fair for agriculture should have started today, let me first of all have a word for this agricultural world, which you know so well, Mr Chassaigne: I do not ignore your commitment to it, nor that of the House as a whole. Since the beginning of the crisis, no product has ever been missed on the stalls of our stores; It's obvious, but it doesn't hurt to say it again: both farmers and breeders have been very strongly mobilized. Your question gives me the opportunity to pay tribute to them once again. You are addressing the subject of French breeding, more precisely in a territory that is yours and where I had the pleasure of going, with you, a few months ago. Above all, livestock farming is part of our sovereignty; I would also like to state that there are many debates on this point at the moment. It is a local, quality farm: these characteristics are among those we want to develop. Furthermore, as you said, there are several aspects to this subject. With regard to remuneration and prices, I will not go into detail; But as I speak to you, the priority, beyond the CAP, lies in the trade negotiations that you know so well. Climate hazards, on the other hand, affect not only crops but also livestock farming very strongly: feed yields are declining year by year, leading to a much earlier-than-expected start in livestock feed stocks. As part of the recovery plan, large sums are therefore foreseen to combat these effects of climate change. Finally, you are referring to the question of the CAP: it must promote our sovereignty and the quality of our production – including livestock farming. It must recognise the specificities of the territories as well as the contribution of their productions: for example, carbon capture in the soil, as you said very well, is not taken into account. The question you are asking concerns coupled aids, the ICHN, the remuneration of externalities. We're working on it. Consultations have been launched with all professionals and organizations with the aim of reaching a successful outcome by the spring. The difficulty I have in answering you precisely on each of these points comes from the fact that touching one of the cursors in question in fact immediately moves others; There are many tools within the CAP that need to be taken into account. However, be assured, Mr. Chassaigne, that all this will be done in connection with you. I will receive on 16 March the fifty-one signatories of your appeal to discuss it further. In addition, my angle of view will always be the same: sovereignty, quality, specificity of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u10	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor to put his question, No. 1325, on the damage caused by drought in the Gard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u11	In our territories, Minister for Agriculture and Food, difficult times have led many of our fellow citizens to favour French products, local products. However, the Gard, France's second largest department of organic agricultural producers, has many of these small farmers who are more concerned with quality than quantity, and who face considerable challenges on a daily basis in order to survive while supermarkets share in imports from countries where environmental and social standards weigh much less. To produce and consume locally, agriculture still needs to be sustainable and sustainable: I mean local agriculture that would not be crushed by regulations and procedures, but also a more protected agriculture, secure in its access to water. In the north and west of the Gard department, where water can cause as much damage by its overabundance in winter as by its scarcity in summer, agriculture is weakened or condemned in the long term. Already called upon by all kinds of cases, farmers facing such natural disasters are confronted with the complex and binding procedures of state-subsidised crop insurance. This, moreover, leads many of them to give up their assurance. I have identified several dozen farmers from the first cevenol foothills seeking to have basins, small reservoirs, at the scale of a holding or a group of holdings, in order to manage their water efficiently. The Gard department has shown voluntarism in developing a raw water management scheme that promotes locally adapted, cost-effective solutions. The State and the communities therefore have the same objective: that useful and sustainable equipment give access to raw water, in order to avoid withdrawals, in times of drought, where this resource is scarce. The Government encourages the use of land-based projects for water management, the GWPs, which focus on coordinated, shared and balanced management of the resource. This leads me to ask you about the articulation of this PTGE with the "raw water" plan adopted by the Gard department. Almost two years ago, the prefects received instructions to revitalize the PTGEs and remobilize their actors. Farmers have made their needs known. Yet the territory I'm talking about has not seen any new projects emerge; those whose realization is continuing, already old, are far from answering the magnitude of the problem. In view of this inertia, what follow-up has been given to these instructions? What about monitoring, evaluation? The action of the State services in the department has meaning and interest only if it leads to an easier, coordinated, efficient implementation of the infrastructure projects that will enable the agricultural world to meet the challenges of today, but also of tomorrow. Even before the age of covid-19, these challenges were already major, structural; They are always, and more than ever. There is an urgent need to respond to these issues, failing which the number of unrecovered plots and farms will explode. Producing and consuming locally is more environmentally friendly. For this, farmers will certainly be free from excessive regulations and administrative burdens, but not from water.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u12	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u13	I have already had the opportunity to say this: the question of water is the mother of battles. A waterless agriculture is not conceivable. Today, however, the country faces this problem: what Mr Chassaigne said about livestock farming also applies to crops in many territories, including the Gard. Action is needed in three areas. Prevention first of all: how can we guard against the effects of increasing water stress? So far, occasional droughts have been mentioned, but they are no longer, and they are now repeated after summer. Prevention can involve equipment, innovation or research. As part of the recovery plan, we have dedicated EUR 100 million to the exclusive financing of climate change prevention equipment such as water stress – in concrete terms, small irrigation systems, individual and other restraints. The assurance issue, then, which, if it is to be addressed, remains incredibly complex. There are two systems: on the one hand, the one that can be described as climate crop insurance – climate risk insurance, in its real name – which is supported by the common agricultural policy, the CAP; on the other hand, the agricultural calamity scheme which is the subject of a State subsidy. The challenge is to scale up these systems to ensure that farmers can be accompanied in the event of disasters. This is in line with the example I mentioned earlier of the fall in feed production for farms and the need to buy fodder elsewhere. For farmers, this is a double penalty: fewer yields and more disbursements. Work is under way on this subject, in particular whether to deploy a national system, strengthen the system at European level or broaden the base. Finally, the third topic to be addressed: water reserves. My position is very clear: we must have the political courage to go further – with a method of consultation. So you mentioned the PTGEs. To answer your question, I would like to point out that we have set up a project unit within the ministries of ecological transition and agriculture and food, whose role is to ensure the completion of the projects. It must do so in concertation, but it cannot last fifteen years – otherwise, it is a bad concertation. We must have the political courage to say so. The Assembly has, moreover, voted on various provisions – very recently still on the essential decree on the flow and use of water. It has shown courage and made it possible to move things forward. These are the three areas of work which we could discuss much more at length. Water is really the mother of battles and it is a complex subject – so we must not put it under the carpet but on the contrary face it, as I wish to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u14	Mr Damien Abad has the floor to put his question, No. 1313, concerning the closure of classes in primary education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u15	I will mention an important subject, namely the closure of classes in rural areas. As you know, school is the Republic and, in rural areas, it is very important. We regret that the Government has not fulfilled its commitments to maintain these classes. These commitments, made in 2017 at the national conference of the territories, were renewed during the major debate in 2019 and reaffirmed clearly by the Minister of National Education, who declared, in 2020, that no class could close in the communes of less than 5000 inhabitants without the agreement of the mayors. Unfortunately, the reality on the ground is quite different. In my department of Ain, especially in Bugey, we see class closures every day. As many as twenty-three closures are announced for next year's season, while the department earns 6,000 inhabitants a year. Many of them are in rural areas; I am thinking of the students and parents of students at the Matafelon-Granges school, those of Nurieux-Volognat, Cerdon or Nantua, but I could quote a lot more. It is important to avoid closures and to avoid mere accounting adjustments. We must not assign to rural residence the young people of these territories who, like all the French, want to succeed. For us, these closures are a contradiction, first of all educational at a time when learning basic knowledge is essential. It is also a health countersense, at a time when respect for barrier gestures calls for smaller numbers in the classrooms. It is also an economic countersense, at a time when the crisis is already threatening many local public services and the school retains a fundamental role in preserving life in our villages. Finally, it is a historical contradiction, while the first fruits, which we see, of an urban exodus could give a new breath to rural areas. What we want to do is to avoid the lack of assistance in rural areas at risk and thus the closure of classes in rural areas. I am aware that it is sometimes difficult, but I will cite an example: the closure of a class with four levels, as is the case in Cerdon, necessarily leads parents to school their children elsewhere. My question is simple: can you renew the commitment made by the President of the Republic and the Government not to close any classes in rural areas without the consent of the mayors? In my view, this is a matter of territorial equity, social justice and academic success for all the children of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u16	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u17	You're right, Mr. Abad: the first Republican promise is school. Primary school, as you know, is a priority for the Government. Between 2017 and 2020, we created 11900 jobs – in a context, which should be remembered, of a sharp demographic decline with 150,000 students less in the first degree. We have split the classes of preparatory courses, then of elementary first year courses, and we are in the process of doubling the major section classes in the priority areas of education. Another complementary reform aims at capping the number of pupils in the main sections, CP and EC1, to 24 pupils throughout the country. These measures help to consolidate the acquisition of basic learning by all our students: reading, writing, counting and respecting others. Thus, in the department of Ain, the share of the large section, CP and CE1 classes whose number does not exceed 24 pupils was increased from 61% in 2019 to 65% in 2020. In addition, at the beginning of 2020, the number of students per class in the Ain – where I will be travelling on Friday, Mr. Abad – stood at 23.6 compared to 23.8 at the previous school year. In this department, as in all French departments, the number of teachers per 100 pupils is increasing from 5.24 at the beginning of 2017 to 5.34 at the beginning of 2020. In the next school year, despite a planned decrease of 381 pupils in Ain, the department is expected to benefit from the creation of 25 additional jobs. As a result, the departmental management rate is expected to improve further to 5.41 positions per 100 students. Since the beginning of 2019, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, no closure of schools in rural areas can be decided without the consent of the mayor. In the department of Ain, we did not see at the beginning of 2020 any school closures, a fortiori no school closures in rural areas. The commitment not to close any classes in rural areas without the mayor's agreement has applied exceptionally to the school year 2020, in view of the health context, and is not renewed for the school year 2021. On the other hand, the commitment not to close any rural schools without the mayor's consent was well maintained at the beginning of 2021. This requires preparation, consultation, exchange and dialogue with local elected officials, on the basis of a fine and objective assessment of each situation. As part of this work, the department of Ain does not foresee any closure of schools in rural areas. I hope that this information will reassure you. Consultation with mayors is under way; It will continue in a spirit of ever more constructive dialogue, aimed at taking into account the specificities of each territory and of each school until the school year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u18	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 1302, on the reduction of overall hourly allocations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u19	In referring to the health crisis, Minister Blanquer said it was essential to keep schools open because of the psychological, health and educational consequences of their closure. Many publications, including your ministry, Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, underline how the closure of schools has exacerbated inequalities; Marie-George Buffet's report, on behalf of the committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people, pointed out this as early as December. The current school year will not address these delays. The opening of institutions must therefore be combined with the fight against the pandemic in their hearts. Pupils, from kindergarten to high school, need the facilities, premises and staff to have all the necessary means to work in high quality health and educational conditions. But we do not see a big catch-up plan. Above all, we do not see this in the declines in overall hourly allocations that will be faced by colleges and high schools in the coming year. This is all the more incomprehensible when the workforce is on the rise – it is even irresponsible. In my department of Hauts-de-Seine, there is anger and misunderstanding in a number of institutions, including those in the working-class neighbourhoods and in the priority education areas. Schools in the least favoured territories are experiencing a significant decrease in the number of hours per student. These fewer hours are less projects, these projects that make the establishment more attractive in the neighbourhood, which help to combat avoidance, to work on the mix or to promote coherence within the educational teams. This is where the Republic has to do more, where we could have expected a double catch-up, but it is still the double penalty. In my constituency, the lycée Georges-Pompidou de Villeneuve-la-Garenne thus loses fifteen hours after three consecutive years of decline in its total annual allocation, as does the Collège Jean-Baptiste Clément in Colombes. Guy-Môquet College in Gennevilliers, which is in the REP+ priority education network, will lose only two students at the next school year but will be reduced by fifty-eight hours per week, which corresponds to two classes. Not only will pupils be less supervised, but mechanisms such as these projects are being challenged to hang up students in difficulty. It is here, for one part, the end of the personalized help or the duplication of certain disciplines, the end of options that offered colleges and high schools partnerships with theatres, music conservatories and sports clubs – to take just a few examples. As if it wasn't enough, there are plans for 1880 fewer positions in colleges and high schools. Most of the needs that will be expressed will be funded in HSA – overtime year. In view of the crisis and the need for small groups, there is every incentive to re-establish and even increase the number of such positions. It is a bit crazy to imagine that you could have created positions of Senior Education Advisors, Social Assistants, School Health Psychologists or Administrative Officers. The "cost at all", the school does not see the color. In the absence of effective measures to make the teaching professions more attractive, the academic directors of the national education services – DASEN – run after the contractors to ensure replacements. This is also the case in primary education, where you find it very difficult to enforce the commitment of double classes to twelve students. Madam Secretary of State, local elected officials, parents of students and representatives of the education staff of my constituency affected by these cuts in endowments would like to meet with you. I know that this is the case in many other places; They're not competing, they're waging a common battle, the best battle for all students. Are you ready to receive them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u20	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u21	The Ministry of National Youth and Sports Education of course ensures the equity of grants in public secondary school education, which it divides among academies on the basis of an analysis of resources at the national level, taking into account, inter alia, the weight of the academy, the demographics of pupils and geographical and social disparities. These provisions are also reflected in the Education Code. As such, several indicators reflect qualitative concerns: respect for the characteristics of the academic network, maintenance of public service in rural areas and academic success of pupils from the most disadvantaged social categories. For the re-entry of 2021, the finance law does provide for a reduction of 1800 teaching jobs in the second degree public, but this is largely compensated by 1847 full-time equivalents – FTEs – in HSA, i.e. in overtime. Therefore the means of teaching before pupils are well preserved in their entirety at the beginning of 2021. In addition, exceptional resources, amounting to around 650 FTEs in the HSA for the public sector, will be deployed to strengthen the vocational and post-baccalaureate courses under the "1 young person, 1 solution" scheme of the recovery plan. The aim is to provide answers to the students most vulnerable by the crisis and to ensure that bachelors can continue their studies in higher education by developing the BTS training card – a higher technician's certificate. In total, the means of education for pupils will increase significantly more than the number of jobs will decrease. It is in this context that the re-entry measure adopted by the Versailles Academy consists of an increase in the means of teaching of 145 FTEs. It should also be noted that the Academy will benefit from the allocation of exceptional resources under the Recovery Plan for the new school year 2021. Finally, it is up to the academic authorities to allocate the resources available to them between the different levels of education, with a view to ensuring the greatest equity for the benefit of the success of all our students. That is the meaning of our action. You finally mentioned, Madam Member, the split classes of CP and EC1, saying that we did not reach the number of twelve students. Well, if, ma'am, we're there...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u22	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u23	... since we have reached 100% of the target and we are already committed to the duplication of the major section classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u24	You didn't answer my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u25	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, to put his question, No. 1316, on learning to read.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u26	Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, I am a departmental councillor for Ain, like my colleague Damien Abad, and as such I participate in the boards of directors of the three colleges in the canton of Lagnieu. I learned with astonishment that, in one of them, 50% of the pupils who entered sixth in September 2020 did not master reading while none of the municipalities in the sector were part of a priority education network – REP. Let us not look at the face: if the disturbances related to the covid may have accentuated the phenomenon, it is deeper and older. A January 2021 briefing note from your department, written on the basis of sixth grade evaluations in public non-priority education colleges, reveals that 38.5% of students did not achieve a satisfactory score in French, I say well in French, and the results would have been even worse if reading and writing had been taken into account. This finding is terrible because, without a perfect mastery of reading, writing and the French language, it is the equal opportunity, the promise of the school of the Republic wanted by Jules Ferry, which is compromised. I have three questions to ask you: first, do you confirm these poor results from reading, writing and more generally from French to elementary school? Secondly, what do you think are the causes: are these programmes, methods, teacher training, insufficient hours? Thirdly – and most importantly – what steps do you intend to take to rectify the situation as quickly as possible, knowing that it will take several years to make them feel their effects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u28	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u29	Since 2017, we have been fully committed to achieving a dual objective: on the one hand, raising the general level of students, on the other hand, social justice. To achieve it, it is first of all a question of ensuring, from primary school onwards, the mastery of basic knowledge: reading, writing, counting and respecting others. Primary school is a crucial step in building a successful school path, from kindergarten to high school. As Secretary of State for Priority Education to Jean-Michel Blanquer, our repeatedly reaffirmed desire to make the first level the fundamental axis of educational policy does not weaken. This commitment to the school has been reflected in many measures: the doubling of CP and EC1 classes and soon a large section in priority education to better accompany students when entering the learning of reading and writing; increasing the training time of teachers in French schools; provide them with reference guides to teach reading and writing, nourished by the knowledge of research in order to support their practices. We need to continue along this path and step up our efforts so far to see the effects on students' learning and success. National assessments of the learning outcomes of students in CP, CE1 and sixth are particularly important tools for improving learning and, above all, for measuring the skills of students. They provide very useful benchmarks, at all levels, from class to national level. In 2020, there was an improvement in the results of the evaluations made in the sixth year in comparison with 2019 and the new fluence test provided additional evidence for assessing pupils' reading skills at the end of the elementary school. These results enable teachers to refine the knowledge of each of their students' learning outcomes to best support them in their learning, and allow teaching teams to develop appropriate devices, as close as possible to each student's needs. This method also allows to accompany the pedagogical piloting in the schools as part of the continuity school-college. There is no doubt, honourable Member, that the whole educational community of the college you are talking about has already taken up this problem in order to remedy this situation as quickly as possible, because that is the objective of this test. To this end, we have mobilized all first- and second-degree supervisors to raise awareness of the importance of this acquisition and to help them adapt their professional practices accordingly. All periods of vocational training also include this subject, regardless of the disciplinary field. As you pointed out, the acquisition of fluid reading requires regular and daily work, so that each student can master this major skill in the long term. Thanks to the commitment of all the professors and the teams that support them, the measures implemented already produce significant effects. It is therefore a matter of continuing in this direction and of improving the work undertaken in order to lead our school to the highest level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u30	Well, we're not saved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u31	The floor is open to Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to put forward her question, No. 1296, concerning the abandonment of the proposed terminal 4 in Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u32	On February 11, the Government, through the voice of the minister of ecological transition, Barbara Pompili, asked the group Aéroports de Paris – ADP – to abandon the project to build a fourth terminal at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport. Launched to remedy the saturation of the two main terminals, Charles-de-Gaulle 1 and Charles-de-Gaulle 2, this expansion plan dedicated to Air France-KLM aimed to increase the capacity of the airport to 120 million passengers per year. According to the minister, whose comments were collected by the newspaper Libération in its 11 February edition, the reason for the necessary abandonment of this project is that it no longer corresponded to the government's environmental policy and to the demands of a changing sector, turned towards the green plane. The Government has therefore asked ADP to present a new project, which is more consistent with its objectives of combating climate change and protecting the environment. Mr Minister Delegate responsible for Transport, I would therefore like to know what the Government's expectations are and how it intends to consult. I will have four questions: Is the construction of a fourth airport terminal planned in the new project? If so, what new environmental objectives could it be conditioned on? Given the importance of environmental issues, could a new project be addressed through a public inquiry rather than through a simple consultation, as was the case with the existing project? Finally, can you explain to us the Government's vision of the development needs of the airport terminals in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u33	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u34	It is important first of all to remember that air traffic has been heavily affected by the health crisis and that its recovery will be very gradual: it will not reach the level it had in 2019 until 2024. In the short term, the airport of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle will therefore not be saturated. In addition, the crisis invites us to rethink in depth this project as well as the role of ADP in the ecological transition. That is why, together with Bruno Le Maire and Barbara Pompili, we asked ADP to review its previous plans. The new project will have to contribute to achieving the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. The aim is to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from air transport while contributing to the development of traffic, the preservation of French connectivity and the strengthening of the Parisian hub. In order to reconcile these objectives, it will need to integrate the new infrastructure needed for the decarbonized aircraft, whose emergence within the next 15 years is a strong ambition of the Government and the aviation industry. It will also need to strengthen the intermodality between the aircraft and the train, which will allow for a substantial increase in rail alternatives to air flights for connecting, in particular for internal routes. Finally, it is important that the new project be innovative in order to ensure the environmental performance of new terminals, exemplary from this point of view. As for the public consultations on this project, it is too early to determine the modalities of the project. Only once its main features are defined will it be subject to all the necessary consultation phases provided for in the regulations. In any case, I should like to see the elected representatives and local actors closely involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u35	Mr Brahim Hammouche, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1298, concerning the system of sanitation in the Mosellan basins.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u36	My question concerns the compliance of the sewerage system of the Fensch and Pays Haut Val d'Alzette basins in Moselle. The delay that it has taken has environmental consequences, with episodes of pollution of Fensch in rain. In addition, it will cost the inhabitants of this basin of life dearly because, in the absence of a collective network that complies with the European standards in force, they find themselves forced to invest in an autonomous sanitation network, which places them in inextricable financial situations. In the municipalities of the intercommunities concerned – Hayange, Aumetz, Angevillers, Tresange, Havange, Lommerange, Algrange, Neufchefchef, Nilvange, Halvange, Knutange and Fontoy – the real estate projects are suspended until the work to bring the collective network into conformity is carried out. In the absence of a prompt response, France is exposed to the pre-litigation procedure launched by the European Union in 2017 and risks financial penalties in the event of a conviction. The cost of the works, planned until 2030, now amounts to €66 million: €22 million for the Fontoy-Vallée de la Fensch – SEAFF inter-municipal water and sanitation union and €44 million for the Val de Fensch community of agglomeration. However, the funding plan is far from complete. The local authorities concerned are considering a substantial increase in the sanitation surcharge. The bill therefore promises to be salty for the inhabitants, far too much in the current context of economic and social crisis. I have been seized by the residents, grouped within the Fensch Creek and Bank Defence Association, who are alerting about the environmental consequences of technical problems and the recurrent pollution events that the network is experiencing in rain, specifically at the lift station. Current discharges and overflows pollute Fensch and contaminate the animal life of the creek. In this context, I welcome the fact that the Prefect will soon bring together all the actors and elected representatives and have expressed the hope that the State will be involved under the recovery plan and investment aid for the modernisation of drinking water and sanitation systems and sewage treatment plants. I would like to know all the measures the State intends to take to provide financial and technical assistance to the local authorities of Val de Fensch and Pays Haut Val d'Alzette in the maintenance and modernisation of the equipment for the transport and treatment of their waste water and in the strengthening of pumping capacity, especially in raintime, through the rapid establishment of a municipal sewerage system, without excessive cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u37	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u38	Barbara Pompili asked me to answer you. At the end of 2017, the European Commission notified France of its failure to comply with the obligations of the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive, known as the ERU, concerning 364 sewerage agglomerations. This notice was followed on 14 May 2020 by a reasoned opinion on 169 of these sewerage agglomerations, including the Hayange agglomeration you cited. This new stage of the procedure precedes a possible referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union, with a possible financial condemnation of France. That is why Mrs Pompili asked all prefects, by an instruction of 18 December, to implement all the measures available to them for a return to compliance as soon as possible. The actions undertaken by the Prefect of Moselle are perfectly within the framework of this instruction. We recognize that the work undertaken can be very costly for the communities involved. However, I would like to point out that the shortcomings which the Commission is accusing us of date back at least to 2014. In the case of Hayange, the community was even called in as early as 2011 by the prefect of Moselle. If the necessary work had been planned from that time onwards, it would probably have facilitated its implementation and financing. It is not understandable for a community to wait more than ten years to address the compliance of its sanitation system. However, I would like to reassure you that this work is indeed eligible for the measures accompanying the recovery plan. As a result, communities must apply to the water agency on which they depend as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u39	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u40	Thank you for your answer, Minister Delegate. With regard to sanitation and environmental protection, I sincerely believe that environmental vigilance and recovery plan go hand in hand. Of course, I will not fail to provide the necessary information so that the local and regional authorities concerned can benefit from this funding in the interests of the environment, the residents and the communities of communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u41	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to put her question, No. 1310, on the road link between Jura and Switzerland.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u42	Mr Minister responsible for transport, I would like to ask you about the indispensable road link between the Jura department and Switzerland, which is still not included in the State-region plan contract 2021-2027. Currently, the link is made through the RN5, an accident-causing road that is impractical and inadequate for current communication needs. It crosses the heart of the city of Poligny, a small town of tomorrow, industrial city and student, at the crossroads of two national roads, the RN83 and, therefore, the RN5, which support intense and constantly increasing traffic: there are 13287 vehicles per day on the RN83, of which 8100 are found in Poligny, and more than 5500 vehicles on the RN5 in its crossing from Poligny towards Champagnole. The nuisances and safety problems are considerable. Since 1998, the department has benefited from a motorway service with the A39: a ramp was created especially from Bersaillin to Poligny by the Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhône network – APRR – with the aim of extending the A39 motorway, in order to connect Dijon and Lausanne without passing through Besançon, a road node already saturated. It was because of this congestion that the State envisaged, as early as 1999, the creation of a Dijon-Lausanne express link through Poligny, Champagnole and Vallorbe. Studies have been launched and this route considered a priority has been included in the road network of regional interest, then in the regional scheme of development, sustainable development and equality of territories – SRADDET – of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region. Since then, nothing more, the project has not yet come into being... The Jura department, the most industrial of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region, will be landlocked, which constitutes a huge damage for the ski resorts, the important industrial basin of the Haut-Jura and the Premier Plateau. Jura is the only department in the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region that has not benefited from significant investments in mobility and road infrastructure. The Jura-Switzerland liaison project has been under consideration for twenty years; He must now see the light of day. Minister Delegate, can you tell me what is the state's thinking on the inclusion of this road project in the next State-Region Plan contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u43	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u44	First of all, Madam Member, I wish to confirm to you the strong commitment of the State to strengthen the conditions of traffic safety on the RN5 in the Jura. Initial security work was carried out between Morez and Les Rousses from 2014 to 2017 and, in order to continue these efforts, a programme to improve the route was approved. It covers a set of developments concerning the works of art, pavements and equipment of the two national roads and constitutes an investment programme of almost €20.6 million fully financed by the State, which is carried out between 2018 and 2022. This work significantly improves, in addition to road conditions, the safety of users in the face of the risk of rock block falls or landslides. With regard to the Dijon-Lausanne road link project via Poligny and Vallorbe, it has a high cost and would have significant environmental impacts in view of the mountainous environment. It thus appears disproportionate in relation to the traffic which it is likely to catch. Indeed, the traffic observed on the RN5 is of the order of 5500 vehicles per day along the route, with the exception of the section near the border with Switzerland, where the traffic is 8500 vehicles per day. More generally, most movements along the axis correspond to local traffic, while transit traffic to Lausanne and Geneva takes the A40. If this project of road link via Poligny and Vallorbe has not been selected to date among the priorities of the State, its opportunity can again be discussed as part of the development of the next contract with the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region. Finally, the State remains concerned about the level of service offered to users of the national road network, as well as the nuisances suffered by residents. We are therefore naturally prepared to continue to improve existing routes wherever deemed necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u45	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u46	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor to put her question, No 1304, on mobility in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u47	The minister for the ecological transition announced a few days ago the abandonment of the T4 terminal project at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport. This logical decision, which I welcome, is proof of your continued attention to noise and environmental nuisances. As you know, the delegate minister responsible for transport, in Île-de-France, the massive urbanization that began from the 1970s had the consequence of placing housing areas close to airport, rail or motorway infrastructures, confronting some residents with serious noise nuisances. I am thus relaying the demands of the residents of the A115 motorway in the commune of Plessis-Bouchard, in my electoral district of Val-d'Oise. The main axis of the department, this motorway is taken daily by more than 72000 vehicles. At Plessis-Bouchard, the residents of a section of the A115 no longer enjoy sound protection as a result of the gradual collapse of the ground mound that separated their subdivisions from this fast track. Since 2014, these residents formed as a collective, Le PlesSilence, have been carrying out actions to ensure that solutions are implemented against noise nuisances. I have met with the members of this collective on several occasions, I have asked the competent departmental and regional authorities – and I thank the sub-prefect of Argenteuil for his constant mobilisation on this subject – but all this is not enough. As you will understand, I actively support the demands of this collective of Val-d'Oise. Although measures have already been taken, such as lowering speed and setting up a sound surface, the only lasting solution seems to be the construction of a noise-resistant wall, as is the case along this axis in neighbouring cities. In an effort to preserve the environment, Le PlesSilence defends an original and innovative project which would consist of setting up a bamboo-based plant wall based on the model of experiments carried out in the Netherlands. This facility would be more environmentally friendly and less expensive than a traditional wall, while responding to the concern of public tranquillity that needs our attention. Deputy Minister, I know your determination and that of the Government to support projects that promote greater respect for the environment. So what provisions do you think are possible to support this green and citizen initiative?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u48	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u49	You ask me both about the mobility issues in Val-d'Oise and, more specifically, about the local initiative that you support. As you said, during the ecological defence council on 7 November 2019, the Government announced the abandonment of the EuropaCity project. We remain very attentive to the development and dynamism of this territory, particularly with regard to mobility, which is why we have seized Mr. Francis Rol-Tanguy, whom we have commissioned to draw up a draft strategy for development and sustainable development in the south-eastern part of the Val-d'Oise department. The Government also mandated the Prefect of Val-d'Oise to prepare, in conjunction with local elected officials, a draft action plan based on the proposals of the Rol-Tanguy report. Your question also allows me to reaffirm the importance of line 17 of the Grand Paris Express for serving the Roissy area of employment and to confirm that this project, some of which is already under construction, will be carried out. However, the measures to be implemented in order to enhance the mobility of Valoisians must not be limited to line 17, and that is the ambition of the action plan that the State and local authorities will defend. You are also asking me about taking environmental issues into account, including this local initiative to reduce noise pollution. We are, of course, very vigilant on this subject, which is not just a Valaisian one, and which we will discuss with the Deputy Prefect of Argenteuil to see what is possible, including the noise-resistant wall. It is, of course, a matter of reconciling the development and protection of the residents of this beautiful territory of Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u50	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u51	Thank you for your answer, Minister Delegate, and I hope that the few things I have brought to your attention will help you understand the importance of installing this plant wall at Plessis-Bouchard. It would be desirable to go a little further by financing as soon as possible a feasibility study which would allow us to know not only the technical details of this development project, but also and above all its consequences in the event of its extension throughout our territory. As you said, we need to innovate and develop, and this bamboo plant wall project would be an opportunity to put technological innovation at the service of our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u52	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to put his question, No. 1305, concerning the timetable for opening line 16 of the Grand Paris Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u53	Mr Minister Delegate responsible for Transport, I would like to ask you about the progress of the Grand Paris Express project, and more particularly of the line 16 linking Saint-Denis Pleyel to Noisy-Champs, which will serve three cities in my constituency, namely Livry-Gargan, Clichy-sous-Bois and Montferreil, and which, more broadly, will irrigate the entire Seine-Saint-Denis department. Particularly expected, the line 16 of the Grand Paris Express will make it easier to travel from suburb to suburb, especially for the communes of Clichy and Montfermeil. In addition, it will be in correspondence with the RER, metro and tram networks, which will facilitate the connection with Paris. In addition to the major challenge of mobility, line 16 of the Grand Paris Express includes important issues in housing and access to employment, training and studies, including the universities of Paris 8 and Gustave-Eiffel, as well as access to culture with the Ateliers Médicis. More broadly, it is also a project of inclusion and equality of territories. However, the work on line 16, which started in 2018, has been lagging behind and it is likely that the initial schedule, which provided for an opening in 2024 for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, will unfortunately not be able to be held: it is now a question of the work corresponding to the first section ending in 2025. I would remind you that local elected representatives, regardless of their labels, have been fighting for line 16 for several years, the opening of which will allow for the opening of this territory and will contribute to its economic development: it is therefore crucial that the timetable be respected. On 22 February, the company of the Grand Paris awarded the third and last civil engineering contract for the construction of the section between the station of Clichy-Montfertil and that of Noisy-Champs, which will begin in September for seven years of work. Can you give us a point of step in the progress of the construction site of line 16 of the Grand Paris Express, specify the opening schedule of the section from Saint-Denis Pleyel to Clichy-Montfertil and the one going up to Noisy-Champs, and tell us what is the objective of commissioning for 2028?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u54	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u55	I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject on numerous occasions and I confirm that the Government considers that line 16 of the Grand Paris Express is an essential line for the eastern part of the Île-de-France region, and particularly for the Seine-Saint-Denis department. Connecting 29 kilometers Saint-Denis Pleyel to Noisy-Champs, it will allow almost 800,000 Francilians to benefit from a new metro line, in correspondence with the existing network. On commuter to suburban routes, the time savings will be considerable – almost fifteen minutes won, for example, between Saint-Denis Pleyel and Noisy-Champs. Work is under way for a gradual commissioning, initially planned in 2024 from Saint-Denis to Blanc-Mesnil and in 2025 from Blanc-Mesnil to Clichy-Montfertil. However, the health crisis of the covid-19 led to the closure of the yards during the confinement of spring 2020 and resulted in estimated delays between three and eight months on the entire Greater Paris metro project. As I announced in June 2020, in the interests of transparency and truth towards citizens and territories, the precise impact of this delay on the timing of each section of the Grand Paris Express is expected to be known in the spring of 2021. In addition, the Government continues to pay close attention to the timetable for the commissioning of lines 16 and 17, including the common section between Saint-Denis Pleyel and Le Bourget RER, which is to serve the Olympic sites in north-eastern Île-de-France. Expertise has been under way by the Société du Grand Paris since the summer of 2020 in order to study all possible scenarios to catch up and contain the delays of the calendar on the priority sections. The studies will continue until the beginning of spring 2021 and the Société du Grand Paris will conduct a parallel consultation with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u56	[[At 10 a.m., Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u57	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u58	I take note of the confirmations you have given us, and I am delighted that this project is finally, if I may say so, on good track.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u59	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1306, concerning the proposed enlargement of the southern A 46 to the Lyon region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u60	My question concerns the road and rail infrastructure projects south of the Rhône department, in my constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u61	First of all, I will mention the plan to enlarge the A 46 South motorway in the Ozon plain, south-east of the Lyon agglomeration. The challenge of mobility is, in fact, particularly high on the urban area of Lyon, which is located in the north-south European corridor. The decommissioning of the A6-A7 motorway, which crosses the heart of the agglomeration, raises the question of the diversion of transit traffic which this motorway essentially captured. To consider the A 46 South motorway as the only motorway bypass solution for this transit traffic would, in my view, be a mistake. Indeed, this road, which is widely used for local services, is a ring road with many connecting straps and is not designed to become a transit route. The addition of a third lane would make it possible to fluidize traffic, provided that current traffic remains constant; However, this would not be sufficient in the case of a decommissioning of the A6-A7 motorway, which would cause traffic of an additional 20,000 vehicles per day. This massive increase in vehicles would, on the contrary, reinforce the saturation already observed on this road at any time of the day and would aggravate air pollution and the induced noise nuisances, all the more affecting the health of our citizens. A consultation is envisaged in 2021 on this enlargement project, under the auspices of the National Commission for Public Debate: are its timetable and modalities so far specified? What alternative solutions should be described in the impact assessment, as set out in article L. 122-3 of the Environmental Code? Furthermore, as far as the rail component is concerned, I would like to know the progress of the project for the southern part of the railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration, known as CFAL Sud, envisaged in the same territory. The study area chosen in 2009 raised serious concerns about its overall impact in dense areas, with the issue of the transport of dangerous goods. It appears that studies were carried out in 2016-2017, without having been made public; If they exist well, can you present them to us, which would be particularly useful for the territory? The question of mobility is intended to be dealt with in a comprehensive way, on the one hand at the level of the living area which corresponds to the reality of the needs of movement and, on the other hand, in its intermodal and environmental dimension. Accordingly, I would like to know the modalities and timing of the consultation on the project to enlarge the A 46 South, as well as on the project for the southern part of the railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration. The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u62	The section of the A 46 South motorway concerns a toll-free section, which is very popular – on average 65,000 vehicles per day. For several years, this infrastructure has been regularly congested and has an increasing accidentology. Aware of the local stakes, the State has asked the concessionaires, as part of the 2015 motorway recovery plan, to produce a synoptic file relating to the two-fold three-lane development of the A 46 South and the Manissieux Node. On this basis, the State and ASF – Motorways of the South of France – referred the matter to the CNDP, the National Commission for Public Debate, which, under the Environmental Code, advocated the organisation of a broad public consultation with guarantors. The terms and conditions, which are being developed, will be subject to approval by the CNDP. Without prejudice to this decision, consultation could take place in the second half of 2021; the balance sheet will be made public by the guarantors, as well as the results of an impact assessment thereafter; This is for the purpose, as you mentioned, of examining alternative solutions to this development. As regards the southern part of the railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration, known as CFAL sud, the project is the subject of further studies by the SNCF network, following the local consultation in 2015, in order to ensure the best way of integrating the project. These studies can be presented to stakeholders in the territories concerned in the near future. However, the CFAL Sud project must be part of both the conclusions of the public debate of 2019 and the provisions of the LOM – mobility guidance law – that you are familiar with. I have, of course, taken this into account in the ministerial decision of 18 January on the Lyon railway star and have asked for the definition of a path of service and infrastructure, in close connection with the authorities organising regional and metropolitan mobility. In the shorter term, with regard to the southern part of the star, I requested that the first studies prior to the public utility inquiry be carried out for the four-lane line between Saint-Fons and Grenay. Be assured, honourable Member, that we are following these matters with the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u63	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u64	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for your answers. These subjects should be followed in a transparent and concerted approach, including very broadly the citizens, the associations representing them and, of course, the local elected representatives. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to my constituency, possibly in the second half of the year, to take stock of this subject, but also to mention the work currently being done to improve mobility between the cities of Saint-Étienne and Lyon, following the closure of the A45 motorway project. We face many mobility problems throughout this territory and that is why I invite you to come here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u65	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor to put his question, No. 1315, concerning the security of the national road 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u66	I would like to ask you about the improvement and security of the national 36, between Meaux and Melun, a road which you are well aware of, Mr Minister responsible for transport, since it is located in a department of which we are both from. This highly used track, with a share of heavy goods vehicles accounting for almost 20% of all traffic, is a north-south structural network linking motorways A4 and A5; It helps to remove national 104, which is regularly saturated, and plays an important role in everyday mobility. Since 1976, the SDRIF, a master plan for the Île-de-France region, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, or the White Paper of the Seine-et-Marne department, have stressed the urgency of recalibrating the RN 36 in two tracks. The development of logistics activities makes this work even more essential. The single path as it exists is conducive to frontal shocks: they have cost the lives of twenty-two people in a decade and have seriously injured more than seventy. Some roundabouts, such as the Guignes or the Crisenoy branch line, are in a catastrophic state, with large rudders. The promises of the State have not been kept to date, as in the case of electrification of line P, for which the Île-de-France region and the department have been forced to replace the failing State. Despite the envelope provided for in the last CPER – a State-region plan contract – the overall planning studies of the national 36 have still not been carried out. I regret that the recovery plan has not provided for a road infrastructure component, which is indispensable in areas where there is no credible alternative to the car, in a foreseeable future: the electric vehicle or the hydrogen vehicle will eventually be able to reconcile individual mobility and ecology. My question is therefore simple, Minister Delegate: what is the timetable for the transformation of the RN 36, in order to meet the economic needs of the department, to guarantee the safety of the inhabitants and to keep the word once given, promising the establishment of a two-way road?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u67	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u68	You are asking me about the security of national road 36, which I am well aware of. I would like to correct two slight inaccuracies in your speech. Firstly, there is a road component in the recovery plan, with EUR 250 million to speed up the development of national roads and EUR 100 million for bridges. In particular, these envelopes must fund work ready to be launched, which was not the case for RN 36 in 2020 and 2021. Secondly, the State kept its promises regarding electrification of the P line between Gretz and Provins. The financial envelope provided by the communities has been repaid and the State will have spent EUR 68 million on this operation, or 43% of its cost. In addition, be assured that we are fully aware of the issues involved in the development of RN 36 between the A4 and A5 motorways. Studies are carried out by the services of the DIRIF – the management of the Ile-de-France routes – in order to identify the measures to be taken to improve traffic on this axis and to determine the arrangements which would enable them to be responded to in a proportionate and relevant manner; These studies also focus on the environmental integration of RN 36 due to the high sensitivity of the area, particularly with the Crécy forest. Differentiated development scenarios on these sections are being studied; They concern in particular the development of overtaking slots, as well as the upgrading of remediation facilities and the restoration of the ecological continuity which has been crossed. These scenarios take into account traffic forecasts and are designed to best respond to both safety and environmental issues. These studies continue and will be subject to public consultation in 2022. In addition, an amount of EUR 7 million, 50 % financed by the State, is included in the current CPER in Ile-de-France, to finance the work on giratory development at the crossroads of the Obelisque, as well as the creation of a giratory between RN 36 and RD 235. The latter was realized and put into service in 2019; the balance of the appropriations entered in the CPER will be allocated to the undertaking of the work of the crossroads of the Obelisk in mid-2022. The State's commitments will thus be fulfilled. Finally, in parallel with these developments on RN 36, a safety study was carried out to identify actions to be implemented quickly: from 2021 and on a multi-year basis, major roadway renewals will be carried out and noise and ground marking devices will be progressively installed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u69	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u70	Thank you, Minister Delegate. All this is very good and I am pleased that studies are progressing. I hear the State's commitments regarding the retakes of carriageways and the appropriations that have been released. The Seine-et-Marnais now need a forecast calendar, to know when they will finally be able to have a comfortable and secure national 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u71	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to put her question, No. 1326, concerning the discharge of the Fort de la Redoute in Villejuif.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u72	Madam Minister responsible for citizenship, I would like to ask you about the situation of the military terrain at Fort de la Redoute, in Villejuif, in the Val-de-Marne, in my constituency. It has been almost a year since on this state-owned land, a training and training centre of the National Police until August 2016, located in the departmental park of Hautes-Bruyères and now at the heart of the national interest contract Campus Grand Parc, set up a camp of more than a hundred people who have developed a parallel economy – a traffic of materials, products and industrial waste. The situation is dangerous and very worrying for people living there, including children. In fact, beyond soil pollution and toxic waste emissions, it is the building that risks collapsing. Following a summons, a court decision was taken in December 2020 ordering the evacuation of the camp before the end of June 2021. However, since that date neither the City Hall nor the Department have been informed of any preparatory work for the dismantling of the camp; The evacuation notice, which is intended to prevent people living there, has not yet been posted at the entrance. This is a real human and ecological disaster which cannot be sustained and one can imagine the extent of the task to be carried out so that the dismantling is carried out in good conditions, taking into account all the above dimensions: soil pollution, care for families, accommodation, etc. I would therefore like to know when and under what conditions the court decision will be enforced and how you intend to involve local, elected and associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u73	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u74	The fort of the Redoute des Hautes-Bruyères was used, you recalled, for the training of the CRS until August 2016; It is now illegally occupied by families, especially from Moldova and Romania, who are collecting and storing waste for remuneration in this place and who have in fact transformed it into a kind of wild landfill. The latest census in September 2020 reported the presence of eighty-five adults, fifty-two children, sixty-four vehicles, including thirty-nine vans and approximately 19,000 cubic metres of waste, which is considerable. This site is intended to host, in the short term, a waste reclamation company and, in the medium term, support structures of the Ministry of the Interior. Two prefectural decrees were taken in 2017 and 2020 to prohibit access to the former fort. On 9 and 14 September 2020, meetings were held at the initiative of the State services, in particular the Prefect of Val-de-Marne, to contain the extension of the camp, limit waste and eventually prepare for the eviction of the occupants. The head of the neighbourhood security district of the Kremlin-Bicêtre, which is competent in Villejuif, was associated with it. On 17 September, a complaint was lodged by the Val-de-Marne prefecture for the illegal abandonment of waste, the installation in a meeting on the ground of others without permission to live there and the movement in a place prohibited by a prefectural order. To date, several procedures under the Environmental Code have led to the hearing or detention of twelve persons and the seizure of four vehicles in impoundment. Two company managers, who had disposed of their waste by employing occupants of the site, were the subject of a criminal order. In addition, a Romanian national, who was involved in this illegal activity, was referred for an appearance on prior recognition of guilt. Finally, an interim order was issued on 31 December 2020 by the Court of Créteil, ordering the eviction of the occupants of the site. The latter, however, have the legal time limit of four months to voluntarily leave the premises. This expulsion measure should, we hope, put an end to the worrying situation you are talking about. In this expectation, the site obviously remains under close supervision, be assured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u75	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u76	The figures you are quoting show the magnitude of the phenomenon, even if I did not have exactly the same: we are talking about eighty-five adults, fifty-two children and thousands of tons of industrial waste. One can imagine the pollution of the soil and the living conditions of these people – especially children who, I know, are involved in trafficking. It is therefore a real human and social issue, to which we must respond. You will understand me: the question is not only evacuation, but also the care of families, especially children. As a Member of Parliament for this constituency – but also like all the deputies and, I know, as the Government does – I will scrupulously ensure that the evacuation takes place in the best possible conditions. On the other hand, I look forward to knowing what the future of the site will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u77	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to put his question, No. 1314, concerning the departmental and regional elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u78	The departmental and regional elections, initially scheduled for March, are expected to be held in June if the health situation permits. They will be organized simultaneously, which means that a polling station composed of different assessors will be assigned to each of the ballots in one place. The number of assessors mobilised on election day will therefore be much larger than usual, which does not fail to worry the mayors responsible for organising this democratic time. In response to this difficulty, a decree of 4 February amended article R. 42 of the Electoral Code, allowing the same person to exercise the functions of president of the two polling stations; the principle is the same for the functions of secretary. This is obviously a step forward, but it seems insufficient for many elected officials: rather, all members of the Bureau should be common in both elections. This possibility is only allowed in municipalities with voting machines, which excludes a very large number of them, particularly in rural areas. If many mayors ask for an exceptional arrangement for the June election, it is because they fear that they will be short of assessors, especially in the new communes, the fruit of recent mergers. The latter have been very successful, involving more than 2500 municipalities, forming more than 800 new entities. In most of these new communes – especially in Orne, where we have been forerunners – the choice has been made to retain the delegated communes and, de facto, the number of associated polling stations. In the new municipalities, however, since the 2020 municipal elections, the number of municipal councillors has decreased considerably, in order to comply with the general code of local authorities. It is these elected officials who serve as assessors in the polling stations. How can we solve this impossible equation between the decrease in the number of elected candidates and the multiplication of polling stations, involving a doubling of the number of required assessors? In the event that there are not enough municipal councillors, the electoral code provides for the appointment of assessors among the voters of the municipality. The health situation – although it is likely to be less critical in June than it is today – may still be worrying for many citizens, who will therefore not gladly respond to the call of the mayors to be assessors. In view of these exceptional circumstances, bearing in mind both the pandemic context and the simultaneous organisation of two local elections, would it not be possible to go further than the decree of 4 February, particularly for the new communes? It is necessary to facilitate the organisational work of mayors, either by allowing them to use joint assessors in both elections, or by agreeing, in consultation with the prefects – and only for this consultation, exceptionally – to group the voting places of the same commune in a few places, without reducing the number of delegated communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u79	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u80	First of all, I would like to confirm that the departmental and regional elections will be well organized on 13 and 20 June, as I undertook before Parliament on behalf of the Government. In addition, the Government is aware of the effort required of the municipalities to organize this special double ballot. That is why, as early as September, the Minister of the Interior asked all the prefects to consult the mayors of their department, in connection with the AMF – Association of Mayors of France – and the AMRF – Association of Rural Mayors of France. As a result of these consultations, the Government has proposed several flexibilities in the strict duplication of polling stations: on the one hand, the polling rooms will be able to accommodate the polling stations of the two ballots, and the voting booths will be able to be shared, provided that they are arranged so that the voters' journey takes place in good sanitary conditions; On 4 February, the Government issued a decree providing that, in the event of simultaneous elections, the same person would be able to act as the president of the two polling stations, when the electoral operations took place in the same room. The same derogation has been provided for the functions of secretary. As a result, two joint polling stations will have a minimum of six members: a joint president and secretary, as well as two groups of two assessors. On the other hand, the Government and the Council of State considered this number – six members for a double polling station – to be a floor. Indeed, if one of the two members is to be absent, it is imperative that at least two persons continue to monitor the ballot box and the voting list, in order to guarantee the sincerity of the vote. We therefore do not consider it possible to pool the assessors. For all these reasons, it is not envisaged to pool the functions of assessor; On the other hand, the mutualization of the office of president of the bureau, provided for by the decree of 4 February, will alleviate the burden of municipal councillors in the organisation of this double ballot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u81	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u82	It is good that a decree eases the procedure, but that remains insufficient. L'Orne was a forerunner in the creation of new communes: some thirty entities were created, resulting from the merger of 140 communes. Some groups cover two or three communes, others out of eight or nine; One, that of Gouffern en Auge, is even the result of the merger of fourteen rural communes. Put yourself in the place of the mayor of Gouffern en Auge and the delegates who surround him: for the 13th and 20th of June, they must find more than eighty people to compose the polling stations, while the city council has only fifty-three members. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures: could you explore the possibility of extending the derogations further? In rural areas and in new municipalities, we need them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u83	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to put his question, No. 1299, on insecurity in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u84	The phenomenon of insecurity is becoming a concern, and the Reunions are concerned. We regularly see stabbing attacks, many femicides, an increase in domestic violence, attacks on elderly people, young children and high school students, sometimes very violent attacks on college students in front of their institutions, bus violence, drug trafficking, theft, etc. These phenomena are often amplified by the dissemination of acts on social networks. Mayotte, our neighbour, is also shaken by a wave of violence. Our proximity to this archipelago, our special ties, but also the bad integration policy in Réunion, lead to sporadic violence in some of our neighbourhoods. Even more serious, we have growing suspicions about the existence of child prostitution networks – I say minors. Since these phenomena exist in well-identified neighbourhoods, we know that banditry and drug networks are not far away. It must be stopped immediately before it is too late. The answer given by the Secretary of State for Youth and Commitment on 16 February to our colleague Karine Lebon suggests that you are not aware of our difficulties. You stay locked in your statistics: for you, everything is fine! Perhaps it is precisely because of a lack of resources that your statistics do not reflect reality. There is no border police at the maritime port of Pointe des Galets, while it is the gateway of all kinds of narcotics. Why? Some laws, such as the Internal Security Policy and Programming Act, are not implemented while they would result in the redeployment of police officers and gendarmes to Réunion. Why? The LOPPSI thus provides that the municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants are in the police zone. In La Réunion, nine communes exceed this threshold, but are still in the gendarmerie zone. Why? The extension of the police zone would create several hundred posts, and consequently organize transfers by ensuring the return of agents from La Réunion. Recall that more than 1300 Reunions who practice in the metropolis are waiting for their mutation on their native island. This is an opportunity to respond, which would offer four advantages: improving working conditions; allow redeployment, in accordance with the law; address in part the problems of insecurity; to satisfy a legitimate demand from expatriates from Réunion wishing to return to the country. You organize a Beauvau of security, but the overseas is totally forgotten. Isn't this just an opportunity to address all these issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u85	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u86	Security is indeed a priority of the Government, particularly in the Overseas Territories, and of course in La Réunion and Mayotte. The State devotes unprecedented resources to these two departments, and constantly adapts its security arrangements. For example, the number of police officers and gendarmes has increased by 10 per cent over five years in La Réunion; By volume, it is the largest workforce in the overseas, with 2136 agents. There are 1239 police officers and gendarmes in Mayotte, an increase of 62 per cent over five years: this is the largest overseas reinforcement. In addition to these figures, I would like to commend the great mobilization of the State services and associations, which are working to prevent the violence you mentioned, while the law enforcement agencies are making violent offenders available to the justice system. The Meeting is also fully integrated into the Grenelle's priority actions against domestic violence, which have led to some effective and targeted measures on the specifics of the island – I went there on this occasion. You are also concerned about the insecurity in Mayotte. Following the events of January, reinforcements were quickly sent from the metropolis to maintain the republican order. Investigations are under way, under the direction of the competent judicial authorities, and we remain vigilant in the face of community tensions – as they say – that can remain alive. You also mention the risk of importing crime between Mayotte and Réunion, and the existence of drug networks or prostitution of minors. The services of the Ministry of the Interior are fully mobilized by these serious subjects, and we are making every effort to ensure that no lawless zone exists on the island. An anti-narcotics office (OFAST) antenna was set up in the autumn of 2020 in Saint-Denis, and a house of trust and family protection opened in January 2021. The Gendarmerie of La Réunion, for its part, has nearly 780 military personnel, and is supported by a mobile gendarmerie squadron. In his ranks, 217 military personnel were recognized for the location of their centres of material and moral interest in La Réunion; They receive an initial stay of six years, followed by a first extension of three years, and then a second of two years, up to 11 years. They are also allowed to remain permanently there when they are less than five years of age. In addition, the majority of the 250 reservists employed are from the island and contribute to the overall dynamics. Finally, I would like to reassure you fully, honourable Member: the Beauvau de la sécurité concerns the whole of the territory, both the metropolis and the overseas, and the concerted action undertaken will have effects throughout the territories. We don't put anyone or any territory aside. As soon as sanitary conditions permit, the Minister of the Interior will visit overseas, as part of the work of the Beauvau de la sécurité, as you call it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u87	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u88	You are not answering my question, Madam Deputy Minister. Again, you are self-satisfaction: everything is fine for you! It's a shame for our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u89	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u90	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to put her question, No. 1300, on the treatment of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u91	According to the Ministry of the Interior, the number of rapes increased by 11 per cent in 2020. Every year, an average of 176000 adults were victims of sexual violence between 2011 and 2018. Of the 18800 complaints received in 2018, only 1028 convictions had been handed down at the end of July 2020. It is estimated that, each year, 165,000 children are victims of rape or attempted rape, of which 130,000 are girls and 35,000 are boys. In addition, a poll conducted by IPSOS in 2020 revealed that one in ten French citizens reported being victims of incest, or 6.7 million people in total. I regret that the Minister of Justice is not here today to hear it. In 2016, the Bobigny court was transparent in revealing figures: out of 223 rape and sexual assault cases, 70 were tried on the bench, and 153 in correctional. The Minister of Justice does not account for this phenomenon of correction, which he justifies by the saturation of the investigation offices and the capacity of the courts to hear. The average time between the commission of a crime and its conviction in the court of assizes is about five and a half years; But it is sometimes much longer, as for Julie, the victim of numerous rapes between the ages of 13 and 15, whose case started twelve years ago now: first investigated in a court of assize for rape on a minor, the facts were re-qualified as sexual assault, in 2019, by the investigating judge, which reduces by half the sentence incurred by three of the perpetrators prosecuted and implies the consent of the victim. You announced that you would set the age limit of non-consent at 15 years for all sexual crimes and 18 years for incest, which was expected. On the other hand, many victims face an extremely difficult path when they decide to file a complaint. The welcome they sometimes have at the time of filing a complaint, the fear of being stigmatized, the feeling of embarrassment or shame, the fear of being blamed, the awareness that the investigation will be long and the uncertainty about a conviction of the aggressor explain that only 10% of victims dare to file a complaint. A study conducted in 2016 by the association Mémoire traumatic et victimologie highlights the culture of rape. It shows that 22 per cent of men still believe that a no is a disguised yes, compared to 17 per cent of women, and 27 per cent of respondents believe that the victim's attitude or behaviour is extenuating circumstances for the offender. Justice still lacks important means to ensure that it can function properly and serenely. Is the Minister of Justice – he is absent, which is rather hopeless – planning to invest massively to meet his human and financial needs so that the French can regain confidence in him? In the end, the minister's absence seems to me to be significant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u92	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u93	The fight against sexual and gender-based violence is a priority of this Government. The Act of 3 August 2018 extended the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors, aggravated the punishment of sexual offences against minors under the age of 15 and broadened the definition of moral coercion. In order to go further, the Government supports the criminalization of any act of sexual penetration committed by a major over a minor of 15 years of age, the introduction of a staggered statute of limitations that will allow victims of the same perpetrator to benefit from the absence of a statute of limitations on one of them. Parliamentary work is under way to ensure that the repressive arsenal evolves, but, and you are right to mention it, it is not only necessary for the word to be released, but also for it to be heard, for the necessary tools to be made available to the victims. On the practice of requalifying rapes as sexual assaults, two hypotheses must be distinguished. In the first, the requalification results from the impossibility of characterizing all the elements constituting the offence of rape which are necessary for the referral to a court of assizes. In the second case, the requalification is decided on an opportune basis, i.e. at the conclusion of an investigation, in order to allow the case to be decided within a reasonable time and to avoid the victim, at his or her request or with his or her consent, a trial on the basis of which some may be more complex to live than a correctional hearing. However, in order to limit these requalifications in opportunity and to be able to judge the facts under their exact criminal classification, departmental criminal courts are being experimented in 15 departments. The assessment as at 10 February 2021 shows that 87 per cent of the 122 cases tried in these courts were for rape or aggravated rape, mainly of minors under 15 years of age. Finally, and in response to your last concern, the justice budget is experiencing an unprecedented increase for the year 2021, with an increase of 8 per cent in its appropriations, which will actually help to consolidate the ongoing actions and to build up itself more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u94	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u95	Thank you, Mrs Vidal, for responding instead of Mr. Minister of Justice. Given that 46 per cent of French people say they no longer have confidence in justice, it is urgent to start this very important project. If we do not act, the French will move further away from the institutions, and it is very serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u96	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to put his question, No. 1312, on the means of the University of Tours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u97	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I would like to ask you about the situation at the University of Tours. On January 14, his president sent you a letter expressing his concerns about the financial situation of his institution. He sent me a copy of it. The University of Tours is one of the least well-equipped in France, both in terms of jobs and operating appropriations. The student population is steadily increasing, from 26000 in 2015 to 31000 in 2020. At the same time, the subsidy for public service charges – SCSP – has certainly increased, but it has not increased at the same rate, far from it, which means that the University of Tours is one of the worst off if one considers the amount of the SCSP per student. This ratio, one of the lowest in France, has deteriorated since 2015, from €5943 to €5303 in 2020. It was 5348 euros in 2019, well below Orléans, the second largest university centre in the region, where this ratio reaches 7347 euros. To simply recover the amount of 2015, it would take an increase of 22 million euros. At the same time, the number of professors and lecturers has decreased. However, in the absence of teachers-researchers to set up dossiers, the university was unable to obtain funding through future investment programmes – PIA – or through initiatives of excellence – IDEX –, science, innovation, territories, economy – I-SITE – or university research schools – EUR. I know that the university has recently received a grant from the Revitalization Plan to renovate the buildings, particularly those of the Regional Centre for Academic and School Works – CROUS – in Tours, and I sincerely thank the Ministry for that. But if the number of students explodes, it is not only necessary to renovate, but also to provide for new premises. The University of Tours has a national reputation, dynamism and attractiveness, as shown by the increasing number of student enrolments. Therefore, it seems to me that it must be given the means to ensure its public service mission without having to postpone the necessary investments. The university's board of directors unanimously voted on 18 January to alert you, as in 2020, to the lack of resources. The weakness of the university's endowments not since yesterday: there was already a significant shortage of staff in 2014. The university's strategic and management dialogue, which is expected to take place in a few weeks' time, is undoubtedly an opportunity to adjust the situation. Minister, how can we correct the amount of the CPSS per student who, at the University of Tours, is lower than elsewhere? On the sidelines of this question, I hope that you can give us assurances regarding the promotion of the specific health access journey – PASS – and the health access licence – LAS – during the transition phase of health system reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u98	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u99	Mr President, like all the higher education institutions that host an increasing number of students, the University of Tours has since 2018 benefited from new resources for the application of the law on the guidance and success of students. This represents more than EUR 500 million in all schools. For the University of Tours, the subsidy for public service charges increased by almost €7 million between 2018 and 2021. These are perennial credits that allow the institution to deploy the reception and success arrangements, to open up additional places and to implement, in particular, the reform of the health studies you refer to. As a result of this increase in means, the subsidy for public service charges per student increased between 2019 and 2020. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the University of Tours has also successfully registered in calls for projects to develop distance learning. It has benefited from a EUR 3 million project funded under a call for projects under the future investment programme. Within the university, Polytech Tours is associated with the Polytech network project, which also has an envelope of 1 million euros, to support hybridization. In 2021, the University of Tours will benefit from substantial additional financial support under the Research Programming Act, thanks to the numerous support mechanisms that have been voted on by Parliament. Finally, as you mentioned, thanks to the France Recovery programme, the university will be able to carry out energy renovations of its buildings, for an amount of almost €5 million, in addition to the €9.6 million of the State-Region Plan contract and the €1.3 million of exceptional support for the devolution of the property – since the University of Tours now owns it. All these financial support will of course be strengthened through the management dialogue to preserve the attractiveness and influence of the University of Tours, both locally and internationally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u100	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u101	Thank you, Minister, for this information. Particular attention should be paid to the ratio of SCSP per student which is very unfavourable to the University of Tours. Having said that, I know your commitment to the influence of universities in general and that of the University of Tours in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u102	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor to put her question, No. 1295, on access to fibre in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u103	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, for now a year our country has been going through an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis which has prompted the French to reinvent their way of life, their family organisation and, for many of them, their way of work. This change in habits has resulted in a massive increase in the number of teleworkers in practice: almost one in six French people use telework daily. The result of this increase in usage was an overload of traffic resulting in a decrease in the bandwidth allocated to each user. In order to work or study in good conditions, it is essential to have a stable internet connection as well as a reasonable throughput. Unfortunately, 25% of teleworkers report difficulties related to the quality of their network. We use telework to limit the health crisis, but this sometimes increases territorial divides. In this context, many elected representatives of the communes in my constituency have drawn my attention to the difficulties they face on a daily basis. The networks of these territories are often unsuitable for current uses, the facilities are slow and the mayors are sometimes not informed of the work taking place on their communes. Yet most of them are identified as priorities in the deployment of the very high-speed plan, which was to end in 2022. As we accelerate the development of 5G, we already know, according to the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes – ARCEP – that the national territory will be fully covered in very high speed only by 2030. Minister, as we call for particularly important efforts from the French, we have a duty to accompany them in this digital transition. How does the Government intend to limit territorial inequalities in digital matters and thus prevent the social crisis that is about to take place?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u104	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u105	Madam Member, the Government has made the improvement of digital coverage a priority in order to enable all French citizens, regardless of their place of residence, to benefit from high-quality digital coverage. As you know, the President of the Republic has set an ambitious goal of universal access to high-speed broadband throughout the country by the end of 2022, relying heavily on the deployment of new fibre optic networks. We will continue this commitment, thanks to a tremendous dynamic initiated within the framework of France's very high-speed plan, led jointly by the State, local authorities and operators. With more than 5 million new housing units eligible for fibre-optic internet access in 2020, France stands out for its dynamism vis-à-vis its neighbours and is at the top of Europe's recent fibre deployment rankings. According to ARCEP data, in your department of Marne, in the third quarter of 2020, 53% of dwellings were connected to fibre optics. The Greater East Region has made fibre deployment a priority, strongly supported by the State, which contributes to a large part of the public funding of projects. This support for the investment in electronic communications networks allowed by the France ultra-fast broadband plan has helped to ensure that networks can withstand the shock in the face of the growth in the volume of data exchanged during containment. These networks have played a key role for 10 million of our citizens, especially in rural areas, in order to ensure the continuity of the country's economic, educational and social activities. By its economic effects on businesses, the health crisis of fragility the activities of the deployment of fibre optics in the territory and their continuation, at the same time as they appeared more indispensable than ever. Thus, as part of the recovery plan, the Government has decided to boost the momentum by mobilizing a supplementary allocation of €570 million to enable all departments to finalize their fibre-optic deployment plans by the end of 2025. In addition, it was decided to extend the eligibility of the "digital cohesion of the territories" scheme, which offers financial support of up to EUR 150 to households or companies which do not have a satisfactory digital connection for fibre or ADSL and which would subscribe to a non-wired solution. Residents of more than 27000 municipalities are eligible. All these elements are evidence of the Government's full mobilization to combat the digital divide, in order to achieve the objective of high-quality digital coverage throughout France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u106	I call Mr Cazenove to speak on his question No 1309 on insurance defaults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u107	I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties encountered by individuals who have made use of a ten-year building company with failing foreign companies. Since the decree of 16 July 2018 on the taking over of damages in the event of withdrawal of the authorisation of an insurance undertaking, the scope of intervention of the Fund de garantie des assurances obligatoires has been extended to cover cases of bankruptcy of insurers in damages operating in France through the European passport mechanism. However, two cases still pose problems. The first is that of individuals who, for the construction of their house, did not use a contractor, but a large-scale undertaking having only contracted civil liability insurance, without compulsory subscription to a guarantee fund which would have allowed compensation for possible damage. The second is that of individuals who acquired insurance before July 1, 2018. Indeed, since the decree covering the activity of these insurers under the freedom to provide services only from that date, no provision is made for the payment of claims previously incurred. The defaulting insurance companies leave the yards uncovered, causing legal and financial problems for businesses and individuals. In such cases, people of good faith often come across dishonesty and bad luck. I would therefore like to know what the Government is considering in order to respond to our fellow citizens and to redress the damage they suffer as a result of the failures of these foreign insurers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u108	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u109	The system of freedom to provide services, or LPS, allows financial sector undertakings, in particular insurance bodies authorised in one Member State of the European Economic Area, to offer their services in the territory of another Member State without being established there. In this context, in accordance with the European supervisory rules in force, the supervision of compliance with the financial soundness of these insurance bodies is not the responsibility of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the CPRA – but of the supervisory authority of the country of origin, i.e. the country in which the insurance body is authorised. However, the CPRA has introduced a claim reporting procedure that is disseminated to policyholders and insurance intermediaries through its website, including a section dedicated to contracts with defaulting European insurers that have marketed contracts in France under the LPS regime, including construction insurance contracts. In addition, CPRA's information service also provides referrals to insured persons who encounter difficulties in their compensation efforts. The Compulsory Damage Insurance Guarantee Fund, or FGAO, is responsible for indemnifying individuals who have suffered a claim that should have been compensated in respect of civil liability for motor vehicles and construction damage by an insurer to whom its approval has been withdrawn. However, the Fonds de garantie des assurances obligatoires de damage can only intervene, since 1 July 2018, in the case of compulsory insurance contracts in respect of damage incurred or renewed from that date in the event of the withdrawal of the authorisation of an insurer established in France. As regards, moreover, those insured in construction damage who are not covered by a default for a contract entered into before 1 July 2018, we are working to cover their compensation by the Fund of Guarantee of Compulsory Damage Insurance. I would like to inform you of our intention to propose, as part of the next finance bill, a discussion to resolve this difficulty. The Government pays particular attention to the difficulties faced by individuals affected by these events, which we deeply regret. In this respect, it is essential that consumers can be protected wherever they choose to take care of themselves within the European Union. Following the progress made in this area during 2019, France has made it a priority to improve the supervision of cross-border activities as part of the forthcoming review of the European prudential framework Solvency II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u110	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to put her question, No. 1319, on food aid associations for students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u111	My question, Madam Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, is about food aid to students and the empowerment of the associations that offer it. The health crisis that we are going through has dangerously amplified the precarious situation in which many students find themselves, who have seen their resources decline because of, for example, the decline in their families' incomes, the loss of their student employment, the impossibility of gaining access to a paid internship or the loss of small supplementary jobs that often came to put butter in spinach. This decline in resources has led a large number of students to resort to food aid. Beyond the associations traditionally mobilized in this field, such as the Restos du coeur, the food banks or the Secours populaire, many proposals have emerged, often at the initiative of the students themselves, in order to help precarious students. In response to this sharp increase in student insecurity, the Government has taken steps. Thus, during the first confinement, the rules governing food aid were relaxed, with derogations being granted to all associations which wished to do so in order to enable them to collect and donate food and to receive public aid. However, actors mobilized on the ground, particularly in the sixth constituency of the Hauts-de-Seine, of which I am elected, told us that this measure ended in the summer of 2020. The cessation of this option offered to associations to dispense with official authorization is a source of incomprehension for many actors, particularly students. However, the health crisis is continuing and more and more students are forced to use associations to obtain food aid, as well as basic hygiene products. Already established associations, regional centres for academic and academic works and some municipalities support these student initiatives to help the poorest of them, but legal uncertainty persists. In order to carry out food aid measures, associations must first submit an application for authorisation under Article L. 266-2 of the Code of Social Action and Families, but regional campaigns for applications for authorization are only carried out once a year – in Île-de-France, for example, the deadline for submission of applications is 1 March 2021. By 2020, the enabling campaign was initially scheduled to take place from 21 January to 15 April, but due to the health crisis, the deadline had been extended to 24 August 2020, which had enabled more cases to be processed. With the continuation of the health crisis and the state of health emergency still in force, what assurances can you give us as to the aid provided to these initiatives during the crisis, particularly with regard to a possible further derogation from the authorisation rules? Does the Government envisage, for example, extending the period of application for authorization, or even extending it throughout the year? What concrete measures of relaxation and accompaniment can you announce to us?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u112	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u113	As you know, the Government is at the side of community actors and communities, all engaged in the fight against the food insecurity of students. The derogation that allowed associations to collect public contributions for the implementation of food aid, opened on 31 March 2020, was an exceptional crisis management measure during this period of containment, and was intended to respond to the cessation of activity of many food aid structures. This derogation was in fact extended until 31 December 2020 to allow the associations concerned to apply for authorisation. By 2021, the deadline ran, as you indicated, until March 1. These deadlines have enabled the majority of associations to benefit from support towards empowerment, and thus to be able to benefit from it now. The context for the massive closure of the aid structures for people that prevailed last spring has now changed considerably, as has the constraints of closures. Therefore, the renewal of the derogation has not yet been envisaged. However, since the second confinement, as the university's courses turned towards distanciel, the social activities organized on campus by the associations, particularly in the area of food aid, remained fully accessible for the students, for whom we obviously also deployed other aid. Since March 2020, more than EUR 12 million has been spent directly on food aid or basic aid, both by the State, with direct financial aid, and through higher education institutions, with the provision of food baskets, the reimbursement of shopping and the distribution of vouchers. My ministry also provides social and solidarity grocery stores with subsidies that have been increased this year. The entire network of academic works and the institutions themselves subsidize locally and massively the actors of student solidarity. I have asked the rectors to meet regularly with all stakeholders to coordinate their actions. Finally, thanks to the generalisation of the 1 euro university restaurant ticket, more than 2.5 million meals have been served in more than 500 restaurant facilities throughout the country. I would also like to point out that specific aids are available to assist students, whether they are fellows or not, national or international.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u114	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor to put her question, No. 1297, on online travel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u115	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, the development of specific unfair competition practices in the online travel sector and the omission of the obligation to inform professionals about the sale price before the conclusion of the contract is a problem which has attracted my particular attention. I confess to having met this situation myself, but I quickly realized that I was not – far from it! – the only one to be confronted with it. As part of an earlier written question, I explained that it was possible, in an online transaction, to add new products in the final stage of the process, once the bank information entered by the customer and the agreement on the final price had already been reached, without a new summary appearing, so that the customer only discovers on his bank statement the modified final price. The answer that was given to me seemed to suggest that this practice is not illegal if the customer can confirm his initial transaction without accepting the new proposal, or if the new proposal is not imposed by means of a pre-checked box. However, the trader has an obligation to inform the consumer before the conclusion of the sales contract. In fact, in this case, the merchant reopens the negotiations with his client, although they had agreed on the price and the thing before. The late addition of substantial information could therefore lead to misleading omissions. Deputy Minister, I would like to know your position on the advisability of clarifying the situation and proscribing these rather devious practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u116	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u117	You are asking me about a practice of professionals in the online travel sales sector to offer new products or services when a final price has been presented and accepted by the customer and the latter has already provided the banking information necessary for payment, all without telling him in a new summary the price to be paid. The practice you describe is clearly illegal. First, the contract is validly concluded only if the recipient of the offer has had the opportunity to verify the details of its order and its total price, and to correct any errors before accepting it definitively. Furthermore, the Consumer Code provides that "for contracts concluded by electronic means, the trader shall remind the consumer, before placing his order, in a readable and understandable manner, of the information relating to the essential characteristics of the goods or services which are the subject of the order, at their price [...]". In addition, the Code requires that "before the conclusion of a contract for the sale or provision of services, the trader shall ascertain the express consent of the consumer for any additional payment in addition to the price of the main object of the contract. » It is therefore clear that, in the case of an on-line order, professionals do not have the possibility to add additional paid products to the customer's initial order by means of a pre-coded box, as this practice is likely to favour the invoicing of services not desired by the consumer. Even in case of express acceptance by the customer of additional goods or services, the current framework requires professionals to ensure the consumer's consent on the total amount of the order prior to its final acceptance, thus excluding the practice you describe. These provisions apply in particular to the case of an insurance contract which would be offered as an accessory to a travel contract, whereas the summary of the total price of the journey has already been given to the customer, or which would be added to the order without his express consent. In this particular case, I would like to point out that it is strictly forbidden to impose the subscription of insurance in addition to the purchase of a good or service. I therefore invite you, Madam Member, to report any fraudulent acts on the SignalConso reporting platform, created and managed by DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – and aimed at consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u118	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u119	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for this very clear clarification. The key to online sales is transparency and readability, especially since it is necessary for all consumers, including the least experienced in e-commerce and digital technologies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u120	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u121	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u122	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to put his question, No. 1318, on local press correspondents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u123	After being questioned by the local press correspondents, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister of Culture, about the deterioration of their situation, which has worsened. Indeed, they are governed by a statute which no longer corresponds to the reality of the activity of many of them. Local correspondents of the regional or departmental press contribute to the collection of all local information relating to a given geographical area, depending on the current situation. The regional daily press – PQR – is a territorial necessity. But its correspondents are covered by the status of self-employed workers and are therefore excluded from the provisions of the Labour Code and the Social Security Code applicable to professional journalists. When their collaboration with a press company stops, as may have been the case due to periods of confinement and the reduction of local press editions, local press correspondents are not entitled to any compensation from that company or to unemployment benefits. Yet their role is indispensable, as they reflect the essential facts of local life. Are you considering, Madam Minister of Culture, a legal adaptation of the working relationship of local press correspondents and their social security coverage?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u124	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u125	Your question on the subject of the press, I would first like to have a thought for photojournalist Christian Lantenois, victim of a cowardly aggression in the exercise of his profession in Reims on Saturday. I want to assure him, as well as the entire editorial staff of the Union and its relatives, of my unwavering support. With regard to your question, the activity of local press correspondents is essential to the coverage of news by regional and departmental press titles. So I'm attached to it, and I know you are, too. [[Smile]] For the vast majority of employees of local press releases, this activity is incidental in nature, as it provides them with only low income. According to the data available to my ministry, the average age of local press correspondents is 57 – so they are very young! – and 51% of them are retired. Their average turnover is less than EUR 2000 per year. In order to take account of the atypical nature of their activity, the Act of 27 January 1987 provided for a statute reconciling the general principles of social security membership and the specific situation of local press enterprises. As a self-employed person, local press correspondents are thus able to charge on their taxable earnings the professional expenses necessary for the operation of their activity. They also benefit from a derogation from social security contributions, supported by the State budget. Those whose income from this activity does not exceed 15 % of the annual social security ceiling are exempt from social security contributions, and those whose income is less than 25 % of this ceiling receive a 50 % reduction on their sickness and maternity insurance and old-age insurance contributions, which are offset by the State budget to the Social Security. To date, the evolution of this status has not been envisaged. You are also asking me about the help they receive during the crisis. Aware of the financial difficulties they face, the Government amended the Decree of 30 March 2020 on the Solidarity Fund to add local press correspondents to the list of companies eligible for support from the Solidarity Fund. However, their access to this fund is hampered by various technical obstacles – most of them do not have a SIRET number, the system of identification of the register of establishments – and legal – the activity must be carried out primarily, and the applicant must have suffered a turnover loss of at least 50%. In connection with my services, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery is currently conducting an in-depth analysis to assess how likely they are to receive support from the Solidarity Fund and to ensure that the people concerned are actually receiving this support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u126	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u127	The statements you have just made are very important, Minister, because many of these self-employed and Liberal workers do not have a SIRET number. If compensation from the solidarity fund is possible, I think they will find a resource there to deal with the very unpleasant situation in which they are currently in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u128	Mr Pascal Bois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1307, concerning the public hospital group in the south of the Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u129	My question concerns the situation of the public hospital group in southern Oise – GHPSO. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the action of his management and all his staff, who are mobilizing their energy to maintain the necessary care in an optimal safety and quality of service, despite the singular period that we are going through. GHPSO is at the heart of a major modernization project. It concerns, in particular, computer systems, imaging services and elevators, but it is important to stress the two major projects involved: firstly, the reconstruction, in a specific industrial building, of the hospital pharmacy of the Creil site, in particular its sterilization unit, at a cost of EUR 9 million; Secondly, the total reconstruction of the adult and paediatric emergencies at the Creil site, at an estimated total cost of just over EUR 15 million. While the pharmacy project should be partly self-financed, both projects have been committed to the investment plan for the Ségur Health Hospital; the regional health agency – ARS – of the Hauts-de-France devotes them part of the €55 million allocated to it under this investment plan. My question is therefore simple: can you confirm to me the nature of the resources that will be allocated to GHPSO for the implementation of these two projects, long expected for the improvement of the conditions of patient care and reception and the working conditions of all hospital staff, as well as the timing of the funding?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u130	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u131	The public hospital group in the south of the Oise has been the subject of special monitoring by the ARS des Hauts-de-France for several years, in order to ensure the optimal care of patients. It is from this perspective that the RSA accompanies the establishment in all its investment projects, including the projects on emergency services, which you have just mentioned, on pharmacy and on sterilization. Meetings are held on a regular basis to monitor and support the smooth running of these projects. In order to answer you, I asked what financial support was being provided. For example, I have been assured that the emergency project has already been the subject of a €4 million grant from the ARS des Hauts-de-France at the beginning of the year. Beyond the payment of this important grant, these projects will be accompanied by Ségur's investment support and stimulus measures. Last week, the Prime Minister launched the National Committee on Health Investments, which is scheduled to take place in Ségur. We are moving forward, and you know that this is a subject that we care about, to give back its superb to our health and medical-social system, after a few years of disinherence. Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to inform you that in 2021 GHPSO will receive support for the "investments of the daily", to use the dedicated formula. The ARS des Hauts-de-France has a budget of 55 million euros, distributed among the health institutions in the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u132	Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u133	You see me delighted with the confirmation of this essential support for the GHPSO to regain its full vocation, its effectiveness, and the extinguishment of certain forms of fake news that may have spread throughout the territory, where I was still recently reading that there were even threats of closure. This will reassure both the teams and all of our fellow citizens in the Creillian basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u134	The floor is open to Mr Jean François Mbaye to put his question, No. 1308, concerning the cardiology service of the Henri Mondor Hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u135	Madam Minister responsible for autonomy, I would like to ask you about the situation of the Cardiology Department at Henri-Mondor Hospital in Créteil. On January 4, the Directorate-General of Public Assistance - Hospitals of Paris, AP-HP, informed the Agency of Biomedicine of the cessation of any cardiac transplant activity within this site, in favour of a transfer of the latter to the hospital of the Pitié-Salpêtrière. You may as well say that this decision, visibly taken without prior consultation with the actors and elected representatives concerned, has aroused on their part, both in substance and in form, incomprehension and criticism. I recall that such a transfer had already been envisaged and rejected twice, in 2010 and then in 2012. On January 18, 2021, with my colleague from the Republicans Michel Herbillon, anxious to preserve the maintenance of an activity contributing to the excellence of the site, we met, on our initiative, the Director General of the AP-HP, in order to underline our opposition to any project that might weaken the Henri-Mondor hospital. On January 30, 2021, it was the 17 parliamentarians of Val-de-Marne, all political sides, who wrote to the Minister of Health to express their refusal to dismantle the Mondor Hospital. They expressed their great concern about the AP-HP project, fearing that its implementation would lead to the weakening and downgrading of the Henri-Mondor hospital for the benefit of Parisian hospitals. We have not yet received an answer to our letter. I also recall that in 2018 we experienced the painful closure of the liver transplant service of that same hospital. If, during our discussions with the AP-HP, commitments have been made within the framework of the future Mondor-Pitié-Salpêtrière partnership, in particular as regards the strengthening of the Cardiology Service of the Henri-Mondor Hospital, I would like, Madam Minister Delegate, to provide all the necessary guarantees in order to ensure the complete independence of the site of Créteil and the development within it of a cardiology service carrying an ambitious academic vision, capable of enabling the inhabitants of Val-de-Marne and of Eastern Paris to benefit, in complete safety, from a high-level medicine, what is expected of our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u136	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u137	We share the same concern for better access to care for all French people. This is an essential question, which requires permanent work. Nearly 500 patients receive a heart transplant each year in France. This is one of the areas of excellence of our hospitals, in which we continually develop and innovate. Cardiac transplant operations are known to be heavy, technical, risky operations, requiring long-term hospitalizations. In the first half of 2019, several heart transplant operations at Mondor Hospital did not save the lives of their recipients. This has led the teams at Mondor Hospital and the Hospital de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, both of which are part of the AP-HP, to engage in a common reflection, with only one objective: the best quality of care, the access of all to the best care techniques. This partnership approach resulted in a coordinated organization of cardiology activities between the two sites. Cardiac transplant operations are now concentrated on the site of Pitié-Salpêtrière. This organisation should benefit all patients waiting for a cardiac transplant in France, including of course, and in particular, patients from Val-de-Marne and the south of Île-de-France. In this organization, Mondor's cardiology pole is well maintained and continues its activities outside of transplant operations, with a very strong academic ambition. Beyond cardiology, Mondor's activities are developing, including critical care services, so much sought after for a year, with the creation of a new building dedicated to this type of care. The PA-HP has made commitments. We will work together to ensure that they are respected, for the benefit of all patients who need quality cardiology services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u138	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u139	Thank you for that clarification. I would just like to remind you – and it is in the letter we sent to the minister – that it would be inconceivable for us that, as our country is facing an unprecedented health crisis and that health issues have become a priority for all our fellow citizens, that the AP-HP project results in a decline in the supply and quality of care provided to the inhabitants of Val-de-Marne and Eastern Paris, and in a lesser attractiveness for doctors and students. We'll be careful. As I said, we have already experienced the painful episode of the liver transplant service moved from Mondor, and several attempts have been made regarding the cardiology service between 2010 and 2012. All parliamentarians in Val-de-Marne are attached to this hospital and we will ensure that the offer and attractiveness remain intact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u140	Mr Guy Teissier, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 1317 concerning the staff of cancer centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u141	Many measures have been announced at the end of the Secur de la santé and are to be welcomed, particularly in the areas of human resources, investment aid and partial debt recovery for certain health facilities. Nevertheless, there are still forgotten people, including the medical staff of the cancer centres, the CLCCs. Established by an order of October 1, 1945, the CLCCs are fully and historically part of the public hospital service. Their boards of directors are also chaired by prefects. While I can only salute the salary increases of medical and non-medical personnel awarded to the public hospital following the Ségur de la santé, I am surprised, not to say that I am even shocked, that the medical staff of the CLCC did not receive the same treatment, despite their public service mission, especially since the non-medical staff of the same centres received them. I have in my constituency a remarkable institute, the Institut Paoli-Calmettes – IPC – which is one of the twenty CLCCs in France. The CPI comprises 1,700 employees, including 254 practitioners. It is ranked among the best hospitals in France in the fight against cancer and was even ranked first last year on the treatment of adult leukemia. The CPI is also 42,700 day hospital stays, 43690 radiotherapy sessions and 45,640 patients treated. This centre is exemplary in all respects. That is why I would like to draw your attention to the unequal treatment of these centres in terms of salary revalorisation. Despite the same diagnosis as for the public hospital, the Government has been slow to undertake adjustments equivalent to those it has granted to professionals in public health institutions. The remuneration of CLCC practitioners is now less attractive at the beginning and end of their careers than at the public hospital, thus increasing the difficulties to recruit in the medical engineering sectors, which are essential to the activities of the centres, including radiotherapy, radiology, anesthesia... However, doctors working in the CLCCs, unlike the public hospital, perform an exclusive public service activity, without any liberal activity. Their unwavering commitment must be recognized. Medical excellence, as demonstrated by the Paoli-Calmettes Institute, cannot be maintained if practitioners desert these institutions for lack of recognition and attractiveness. The lack of practitioners' appreciation is a bad signal to this success model that contributes to the influence of our country. Thanks to the CLCCs, we have the chance to be able to count on state-of-the-art management and research that ranks France among the best performing countries in the fight against cancer. As well, Madam Deputy Minister of Autonomy, I would like to know what you intend to do to put an end to this discrimination against CLCC practitioners who carry out the same care, teaching and research tasks as their colleagues in public institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u142	[[At 11.25 a.m., Ms Annie Genevard replaced Mr Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u143	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u144	You are right to stress the commitment of the professionals working in the CLCCs, who organize research and provide treatment in the face of these scourges that are of full concern to the Government. The President of the Republic presented less than a month ago a new cancer control plan, raising our investments to €1.7 billion over five years, an increase of 20% in the budget for cancer prevention, screening and patient support. To achieve this, these key players in the CLCC system will fully benefit from the budget increase. This is a determining factor for the attractiveness of jobs, because unlike other hospital, health and medical-social jobs, which are targets of the Sécur de la santé, CLCCs have the freedom to award remuneration supplements to their practitioners, such as additional variable shares. Similarly, collective agreements set out conventional minimums and gave the possibility to define more favourable compensation schemes. This flexibility allows them to adapt their recruitment and remuneration policies accordingly to ensure the attractiveness of these structures. It is reflected in the salaries of doctors, when comparing these elements sector by sector. Public hospital facilities did not have these tools and lost their attractiveness. It is this fact that, with the consent of the trade unions, we did not include these centres as part of the wage adjustments of the Ségur de la santé. However, the department's departments are responsible for conducting work with representative organizations to ensure that these measures do not affect centres that, as I have told you, play an essential role in our public policy on cancer control. I am sure you will welcome the government's commitment to increased funding for cancer control. And you will agree that this organizational specificity is able to meet the ambition we share.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u145	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to raise her question, No. 1322, concerning the intercommunal hospital centre of Alençon-Mamers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u146	Madam Minister-in-Charge of Autonomy, I would like to ask you about the situation of the inter-municipal hospital in Alençon-Mamers – CHICAM – whose buildings and equipment suffer from an outdated rate of 95%. The building does not meet the minimum conditions of reception and comfort expected by the population of a basin of 140000 inhabitants, nor the needs of hospital staff. The current health environment has amplified the difficulties of managing flows in a totally inadequate architecture. Finally, the hospital in Alençon is regularly flooded, which compromises the functioning of the medical activity and the reception of patients. Given the inconstructibility of the area in which the current site is located, only the construction of a new hospital on a site in the municipality of Alençon will provide a satisfactory response to all the problems identified. On 15 October 2020, the supervisory board of the hospital, chaired by my predecessor Joaquim Pueyo, now Mayor of Alençon, unanimously voted for the reconstruction of the hospital in Alençon. A study carried out by the hospital management makes it possible to estimate the total investment cost at 148 million euros. The financial situation of the institution does not make it possible to finance this operation. Only a financial contribution from the State will make it possible to carry out this project which is indispensable for the territory. The modernization of this pivotal establishment for the department of Orne is a necessity in order to provide the prefecture city and the inhabitants of this basin of life with a hospital center worthy of this name. This work will also allow the 1300 staff of the institution to carry out their mission under decent conditions. So, Madam Deputy Minister, will the state commit itself to investing in this project too long postponed and yet indispensable?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u147	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u148	Madam Member, you are drawing our attention to the situation of the Alençon-Mamers intercommunal hospital, its age and the reconstruction project carried out by its supervisory board. Major state-supported investments have enabled the institution to modernize over the past six years. A new mother-child centre entered service in 2015. A new building, inaugurated in January 2020, has also provided space for some of the resuscitation and continuous monitoring capabilities in more spacious and modern premises. The facility will continue its work in 2021 with the renovation of the emergencies, the hemodialysis unit, the paediatric department and the laboratory. In view of the deteriorating financial situation you describe, the modernization of the institution was only possible thanks to the constant financial support of the State. For all of this renovation work, we contribute almost 4 million euros. We released nearly 3 million contracts over three years. In addition, current investment aid of 1.3 million has also been allocated. Finally, significant cash aid is being mobilised: 1.2 million for the period 2018-2019 and 3 million for 2020, in the exceptional context of the health crisis. The Segur of Health has made it possible to unlock $19 billion for investment in the health sector, a historic level in our country. We wanted the management of this envelope to be deconcentrated at the regional level and the allocation process to involve the territories closely. The projects will be selected according to the needs assessed, but also by ensuring their consistency in terms of care with city medicine and the medical-social field and in consultation with elected officials and health actors. In the second quarter of 2021, the appraisal of the projects which could be selected will be undertaken for a contract between the regional health agency and the institutions selected by the end of the year. The project you are defending today can therefore be proposed and studied in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u149	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u150	Thank you for this information, Madam Deputy Minister. Essential work has indeed been carried out within the hospital centre. However, the redevelopment plan planned for 2007 has not been completed. Only the services most essential to the activity have benefited from renovations. In view of the problems that have arisen, particularly from flooding, which are constantly increasing and which have a very serious impact on the operation of the hospital, it is now time to consider a comprehensive programme of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u151	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to put her question, No 1323, on the health and social sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u152	The health crisis highlighted the growing malaise in the social and medico-social sector. I am thinking in particular of home helpers, caregivers and staff working in various private institutions, such as the medical and educational institutes – EMI – that is, in short, what Michel Laforcade's mission on the professions of autonomy refers to as "autonomous establishments". These personnel received a first blow from the club with their exclusion from the salary adjustment at the time of the conclusion of the Ségur de la santé agreements. The Laforcade mission, mandated at the end of 2020, did not provide the answers they expected on improving the attractiveness of the sector and they told us their disappointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u153	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u154	The extension of the €183 indexary treatment supplement benefits only service and structural staff attached to public health institutions and EHPADs. Of course, we welcome the fact that these personnel benefit from this measure, but the misunderstanding and feeling of injustice prevail among the professionals I mentioned. This difference in treatment is not such as to give rise to vocations for arduous, poorly paid and no prospect of evolution. The salary adjustment requested is a first act of social justice and cohesion, but it must be accompanied by real work on the sector. In the first instance, it should be required that the recruitment of "functioning" persons should be based on the status concerned and not, as is generally the case, below that status. As part of the upgrading of the sector, it would also be necessary to open up opportunities and enable experienced home helpers to be promoted more easily to the role of care givers and particularly courageous and effective caregivers to become nurses, of course under conditions that remain to be defined. The establishment of an inter-ministerial working group was requested to address this issue. I know that you share this concern with us, Madam Minister Delegate: the medico-social sector cannot be relegated to the background when the investment of its staff is essential and the structures are now suffering from shortness of breath and recruitment difficulties. So, Madam Deputy Minister, what about the 183 euros of salary revalorisation for staff excluded from the measure and the working group on the evolution of the sector and its attractiveness?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u155	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u156	Thank you for your question, which again sheds light on home helpers. As soon as I was appointed, I wanted to see a reflection on the attractiveness of these trades and their salary revalorisation. The Ségur de la santé is an agreement that aims to make our public health system more effective, to allow essential investments, but also to improve the attractiveness of the professions. Initially, with the consent of the trade union organisations, this agreement concerned the public hospital and the EHPADs, both public and private, with a salary increase between 160 and 183 euros net monthly. The medical and social sector was not left behind and a re-visit clause was provided for. As you recalled, the Prime Minister entrusted Michel Laforcade, the national coordinator of the professions of autonomy, with the task of providing an operational response to the staff of the institutions and of the social and medico-social services and to raise their salaries as soon as possible. This mission has already borne fruit. On 11 February, together with Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, I signed an agreement to extend the agreement of the Ségur de la santé for the benefit of professionals working in a social or medico-social institution or service attached to a public health institution or to an EHPAD of the hospital public service. Your question also highlights the urgent need to raise the salaries of professionals in the health and medical-social sector. This is a project that I started as soon as I arrived: the addition 44 of the collective agreement of the home help branch has already allowed the index point to be revalued and negotiations have been reopened – to which I will devote myself throughout March – to recast, together with the departments, the index grids with a view to an even greater revalorisation. To this end, during the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021, I introduced an amendment aimed at abounding the autonomy branch of EUR 200 million to complete this upgrading. I thank all the Members who have made it possible for it to be adopted regardless of their benches. I would remind you that this revalorisation is a matter for the departments. However, I am convinced that the attractiveness of these trades goes beyond the only salary revalorisation – you yourself have pointed out, Mrs Untermaier, and the professionals also say so. That is why I launched an action plan for the professions of old age and autonomy, of which I led the first steering committee on 23 February, so very little time ago. This action plan will make it possible to have more staff, better trained, in a safer working environment. At their request, I wanted a particular effort to be made in terms of training and image, beyond the mere salary revalorisation. Remember that professionals have been waiting for a professional card for ten years. We are willing to work on the various factors of attractiveness in these occupations, including mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u157	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u158	Thank you for your reasoned answer, Madam Deputy Minister. Wage revalorisation remains a topical issue for staff in the health and social sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u159	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u160	For them, an increase of 183 euros net monthly is far from anecdotal. I welcome the initiative of an action plan on the professions of old age and autonomy whose aim is to strengthen their attractiveness. Perhaps this plan should be made more public. It would thus open a path of hope for the staff of the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u161	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to put his question, No. 1324, on the territorial distribution of doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u162	My question concerns the installation of doctors in the territories. A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, I asked the Minister of Solidarity and Health about the regulation of the installation of doctors and their arrangements, just as there is a convention for pharmacists, massage therapists and nurses. In his reply, Olivier Véran recalled the various actions undertaken by the Government and mentioned in particular the abolition of the numerus clausus, i.e. the increase in the number of medical students destined to be future doctors. Recently, medical students and parents asked me about the reform of the first year common to health studies – PACES. It is quite extraordinary that, in a country with nearly 67 million inhabitants, 6 to 7 million of our fellow citizens do not have a referent doctor...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u163	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u164	... while a very large number of young French people want to embrace this career! Like many French, I saw Thomas Lilti's First Year film: it shows perfectly the selection that exists in the first year of medicine and everything that is done to cut off the hands of students who want to become doctors. Today, therefore, there is no longer no numberrus clausus in medical studies, but a numberrus apertus, since universities are asked to open up more places for medical students according to the needs expressed by the territories. Still, universities must have the capacity to do so. In my department of Ille-et-Vilaine, we have the chance to have a university hospital in Rennes and local hospitals in Saint-Malo, Redon, Vitré and Fougères, which opens up prospects for the training of medical students as close as possible to the territories. We must ensure that medical students are not concentrated solely in the major cities, that the number of places apertus results in a really larger number of places and that the PACES is not an impassable barrier. It is terrible to see that an increasing number of young French people travel abroad to train in medicine and then to practice in France. Of course, we cannot accept it. That is the meaning of my inquiry, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u165	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u166	The problem of access to care both in the city and in the hospital is a matter of major concern that we share, Mr Benoit, being myself a territory facing the problem of the demography of doctors and medical desertification. It is with energy and determination that we hear, together with Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, and Frédérique Vidal, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, remove obstacles and provide answers to the crisis that many territories are going through. The situation we are experiencing is the result of several factors that we inherit. Poor decisions led to the training of less than 4000 doctors per year from 1991 to 2000. In addition, the evolution of medical needs and demographics has not been sufficiently anticipated. Finally, practices and conditions of exercise have changed radically without being anticipated either. It is because of these different findings that we have already carried out the removal of the numerus clausus, but this will have a real impact only after the training of our future young health professionals, despite the work of the faculties. Considering the regulation of installations does not seem appropriate: on the one hand, the number of areas overdenses has been overestimated – there are not hundreds of them in our country; On the other hand, as I have seen, the Liberal exercise is becoming less and less favoured by new professionals who prefer a shared activity between the hospital and the firm – only 11% of them choose the exclusive liberal mode of exercise. As you can see, this is not just a question of openness and training: we are dealing with a cultural issue, which we may not have anticipated and which is due to the way in which new doctors wish to practice their profession. We therefore opt for tools to train more and better coordinate professionals, in order to free up medical time. The territory's meshing is strengthened by the CPTS – territorial health professional communities – and access to care by task delegations and the development of telemedicine tools. Paradoxically, the health crisis has increased from 10,000 to 1 million teleconsultations per week, a peak reached last April.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u167	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u168	Of course, I will be careful not to give you instructions, Madam Minister Delegate, but let me still insist on relaying the concerns of young medical students. First of all, they ask that the number apertus fixed by the universities to determine the number of students in the first year be as high as possible. I find this request legitimate, knowing that 25% of an age group wants to pursue a career in the medical sector: young French people want to do medicine! This requires a large number of students in the first year. In the course of their training courses, students must then form themselves, of course, in the CHUs, but also in the local hospitals. If we could train doctors in our territories – for example the one where I live in Fougères – they would certainly settle there, attracted by the quality of life we have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u169	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor to put his question, No. 1320, on the psychiatric consequences of confinements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u170	The epidemic of covid-19, the confinements and the measures of restriction of freedoms that it has caused have created considerable psychosocial damage in many French and French. Young people are particularly affected. Stay alone in a small room, to follow in front of a screen of distance courses while experiencing financial difficulties to fill its fridge: this is the dark daily, without real horizon, of many students. We understand that it gives some of the dark ideas. A recent survey shows that they are most vulnerable to the health crisis and 40% of 18-24 year olds suffer from anxiety disorders. Of course, you have provided an initial answer to this problem by creating the psychological accompaniment check, which funds three consultations with a liberal psychologist. This is a step forward, but it does not correspond to the magnitude of the needs because the phenomenon of psychological distress unfortunately affects all ages and all categories. Everyone's concerned. Since spring 2020, the prevalence of mental disorders has doubled in France; Worse, one in five Frenchmen thought of suicide. On 16 February, the Court of Auditors, in its report on the path of patients in the psychiatric field, voted in favour of the generalisation of the reimbursement of psychological consultations by social security, already experienced in four departments for the last two years. Today, the exceptional circumstances we know make it urgent to act quickly. My question is therefore very simple: as the Court of Auditors recommends, are you going, Madam Deputy Minister, to generalize the reimbursement of psychological consultations by social security to prevent, treat and cure the profound moral distress that is afflicting a large number of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u171	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u172	As you know, the Government is fully aware of the psychological dimension of the health crisis, which is as important as its somatic dimension. The effects of this crisis are causing ill-being among a majority of French people – as you said – young people as well as the elderly – I do not put the different generations in opposition, because they all suffer – and the caregivers, who are specifically tested. These populations, which are particularly exposed, are all the more vulnerable to psychological suffering and must be accompanied by accompaniment. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health has accompanied the actors of mental health and psychiatry who have been remarkably able to mobilize and even reorganize in the territory. A "covid mental health" crisis cell and the publication of a series of recommendations have supported this sector to continue to take charge of the affected audiences while responding to the many new demands. The Ségur de la santé also plans to strengthen and expand the provision of psychiatric and psychological support to the population. As such, 41 medical-psychological emergency cells are reinforced by two full-time psychologist nurses; In addition, 160 psychologists in the process of recruitment will be permanently added to the staff of the medical and psychological centres, in particular within the infant-child structures. Two hundred psychologist positions are also planned to support general practitioners in multi-professional health homes and health centres in the coming months, which prefigures a structural strengthening. For students, 80 positions of psychologists, 60 positions of social workers and a psychological accompaniment check have been created. Finally, we want to amplify and accelerate the actions of the Mental Health and Psychiatry Roadmap to make mental health the first item in our care spending. This is a key priority of our health policies, which must increase awareness of mental health issues and strengthen a culture of prevention. It is also a matter of improving the early identification of mental suffering and its graduated management, to avoid all the dramas that you have evoked. So be assured, honourable Member, of our full and complete mobilization in the face of this major issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u173	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u174	I take note of your reply, Madam Deputy Minister, but I maintain that it is essential, as the Court of Auditors has proposed, that we should be able to generalise an experiment which is already taking place in four departments and which allows the reimbursement of psychological consultations for our fellow citizens. This would be both a health, social and even an economic measure, since it would make it possible to reduce the congestion of medical and psychological centres which are already saturated. As you know, psychiatry is the poor parent of the French health care system; I would like it to become a major national cause, as cancer has become.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u175	Mr Fabien Roussel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 1301 on the health role of thermal facilities during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u176	Madam Minister for Autonomy, France has the chance to have 109 thermal facilities and 850 specialist doctors offering nearly 600,000 patients a year complementary treatment to medicines. It is sometimes the only effective and lasting therapeutic solution against certain diseases. Thermal medicine reduces or even eliminates pain while significantly reducing medication use. It treats diseases affecting the respiratory tract, rheumatism and neurological conditions. However, all our healthcare facilities are closed, from the North, to Saint-Amand-les-Eaux, to the South, to Amélie-les-Bains in the Pyrénées-Orientales. In Italy, they have never been, and the reception of patients is strictly reserved for medical treatment as well as for the care of post-covid -19 patients. In France, at the time of their reopening last spring, no clusters were reported in these establishments, thanks to particularly strict monitoring conditions. On the other hand, their closure has led to over-consumption of drugs in many patients, for some with chronic diseases. Last year, following administrative closures, more than 350,000 patients were deprived of care. In the absence of a cure, a driver from my northern department, suffering from osteoarthritis, said that he was forced to increase the intake of painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs. Deputy Minister, thermal facilities are the only facilities to be closed, despite very strict sanitary protocols. In addition, the doctors at the thermal baths tell us that they are able to accompany people affected by the covid-19 in their recovery. They have already demonstrated this last year by caring for post-covid -19 patients, in particular to repair their damaged respiratory faculties and to rebuild their general physical and psychological condition. The Academy of Medicine recommends – I quote a note of June 15, 2020 – "the management of certain sequelae of covid-19" by thermal medicine. This natural wealth and skills, which we are fortunate to have, are thus important assets for all our fellow citizens, including those who suffer from the effects of the covid-19. For all these reasons, medical teams and patients in need of care do not understand what still justifies the closure of thermal facilities. Madam Minister Delegate, patients, professionals, doctors and elected officials – I welcome our colleague Jean-Bernard Sempastous, who follows this file – are waiting for thermal medicine to take on its primary role again, that of treating. What is still opposed to the opening of these establishments and what are you waiting for to allow their reopening?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u177	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u178	Thank you, honourable Member, for defending French thermalism with such ardour. I also thank you for your question, which allows me to recall that the health crisis started a year ago and that no one could have imagined, neither you nor I, that our lives would be so upset by a virus of devastating and unprecedented power. From now on, we are able to take care of it and protect ourselves more effectively; Thanks to the vaccine, we are finally beginning to protect ourselves from it. But one year, for a research activity, it is a period that remains short and we do not yet know all the consequences of the infection. Nevertheless, we find that some of our fellow citizens – estimated at about 10% of those infected – are already affected by the virus still suffer from certain symptoms six months later, as you said: extreme fatigue, muscle disorders, digestive, respiratory or neurological disorders. Beyond purely scientific questions, it is necessary to recognise and accompany people with these persistent symptoms, to listen to them, to allow them to be addressed to the right professionals and to guide them at all levels, health, of course, but also social and professional, because the duration of the disorders they suffer is often invalidating. This situation obliges us to provide appropriate solutions in conjunction with all the actors concerned, in order to avoid medical error and to provide the most appropriate care. In mid-February, the High Health Authority published rapid responses to professionals in order to monitor these patients. It has also been presented with guidelines that are more focused on the management and use of the thermal facilities you refer to; In fact, they could be retained if the scientific analyses under way and the evolution of the health situation confirmed their usefulness. To date, the closure of thermal centres has been necessary because they constitute areas for the mixing of populations, often particularly fragile in the face of the virus, for an activity incompatible with the wearing of the mask, in a humid context that can increase breathing difficulties. We therefore adapt our response, along the water, to the latest developments in medical and scientific knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u179	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u180	I would like to take the floor again, Madam Deputy Minister, because you can imagine that your answer does not bring the elements expected by all the professionals and patients involved. You know that very strict measures have been taken in these institutions during the period of pandemic, so that they can accommodate sick people, as in all healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that obviously continue to care. Thermal establishments may also treat and must be able to do so during this period; the profession as a whole complains of not getting concrete answers to its questions and of not being able to play its role. We deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u181	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1183.u182	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. Solemn vote on the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. Debate on the territorialisation of the recovery plan. The meeting is adjourned.
