ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law renewing the governance of public drinking water and sanitation services in Guadeloupe (No 3998).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u2	Mrs Justine Benin, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u3	It is with emotion that I address the national representation: we have reached the final stage of the adoption of a crucial text for our compatriots in Guadeloupe. First of all, I want to welcome the spirit in which the discussions took place. The bill had been tabled jointly by Mr Dominique Théophile in the Senate and by me in the National Assembly, with the support of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats. Thus, from the outset, it was a sign of the consensus and complementarity of our two chambers, and I am pleased that these two elements have continued to prevail throughout the debates. It is to the credit of Parliament that it has been able to grasp the importance of the issues involved in building the text before you today. The discussions during the first reading were constructive and the Joint Joint Committee (JC) took place in the same spirit. How could it have been otherwise? Faced with a widely shared observation and with the gravity of the situation and its consequences for the people of Guadeloupe, there was no room for political manoeuvres. The CMP naturally took over the solution adopted by the National Assembly and validated by the Senate regarding the transfer of debts. The text has also been enriched by the contributions – to which I was in favour – of our fellow senators regarding the easing of the functioning of the joint union, the composition of the supervisory commission and the strengthening of its prerogatives. Moreover, involving the population in the new governance is a sine quanon condition for the return of user confidence, a goal that has guided us to achieve a just, pragmatic and legally sound text. At this moment, I would like to express my deep appreciation to the Senate rapporteur, Françoise Dumont, who was able to understand all the problems and challenges of the territory – this water challenge in quantity, quality, continuity – in order to support the text with conviction. I respectfully welcome the Members of Parliament of Guadeloupe who have been able to take their responsibilities so as not to politicize the subject of water unnecessarily. I also want, in the purest republican spirit, to greet all the institutional actors, public or private, including user associations. Thank you to our local elected representatives – regional, departmental, community and municipal – who understood that it was not a law of dispossession but, on the contrary, a law of justice and efficiency: it recognizes the role of the department and the region, which have constantly made a living of solidarity by investing massively for years, and is the power of the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation (EPCI) which will now be able to rely on effective governance at the service of citizens. To you, Mr Minister of the Interior, as well as to Mr Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for Overseas Affairs, who is invested in this subject and who has understood the challenge and the stakes, I would like to say that Guadeloupe will need strong support, within the framework of the finance law, to accompany the rehabilitation of the network and the clearance of debts. We will be able to be heard next fall so that the State can grant the necessary allocations. Colleagues, the Senate adopted the text of the CMP on April 8, and I invite you to do the same. In doing so, you will complete its parliamentary journey and offer Guadeloupe and its people who have suffered so much, a public service of quality water with Guadeloupeian skills at the service of the Guadeloupeans. In advance, on their behalf, I thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u5	Following the agreement reached by MPs and senators gathered in the CMP, the National Assembly is now considering the text resulting from their work, which has already been adopted by the Senate. My colleague and friend Sébastien Lecornu, who has been fully involved in such an important text for the Guadeloupees, unfortunately could not be present this afternoon. Without taking part in your work, I am very happy to read the words he has prepared for you. Madam rapporteur, allow me to welcome your commitment, but also – in the republican spirit you mentioned – that of your group, the ultramarine elected representatives, the entire national representation, as well as that of the Senate, its rapporteur and all the stakeholders who have supported this ambitious text with courage and dignity, and in dialogue. By ensuring the adoption of this bill each in your House, you have been able to be the voice carriers of the daily lives of the Guadeloupeans and the Guadeloupians, since that is what we are talking about. This pragmatic and concrete text aims to solve very difficult problems on your island. It is a matter of putting an end to a situation in which 100,000 French people are regularly victims of water cuts, sometimes for several days, and this – this is the paradox – despite abundant resources. Unfortunately, 65% of the water entering the system is lost due to the outdated facilities. This is not acceptable, and it summarizes the validity, which is no longer to be demonstrated, of the proposed legislation. If the state is not competent, it is present and it takes its full part: in 2020, 6 million euros were invested by the state for emergency repairs in order to eliminate more than 4000 leaks. Since 2014, successive governments have invested €90 million in heavy investments on the network, and €30 million is planned for 2021 and 2022. Finally, the State will be present alongside the competent elected representatives to accompany them in the implementation of the new single union. In this case, the requirement of truth – all of it and all of it – is an imperative. So let me say: money alone will not be enough to build a functioning public water and sanitation service; adequate governance is also needed. This is why, without depriving local elected representatives of their prerogatives, this subject calls for our collective mobilization to lay the sound foundations for a new water governance in Guadeloupe, which will enable its inhabitants to offer a service of quality, while ensuring, in compliance with the competences of each, the implementation of our commitments to the protection of the environment and the proper management of natural resources. The aim of this text is to accompany the desire for transformation shared by all, by implementing the principle of a single structure of water and sanitation. The CMP's conclusions are further evidence of the willingness of all actors to move forward together. We owe it to our fellow citizens in Guadeloupe, who are waiting for 2021 to finally be the year of the results. With this text, Parliament has taken a very important and necessary first step towards achieving the objective of ensuring the return of water to the taps of all the inhabitants of Guadeloupe. The proposed law contains responses that must make concrete progress on this objective. This requires an institutional, democratic and responsible response. Institutional response first, with the creation of a single union for water and sanitation governance, synonymous with solidarity, which responds to a strong and consensual demand. This was necessary, in the face of a governance that – let's say – for a long time did not really play its part. To emerge from a pattern in which some unions have become inoperative, the unique structure provided for in the bill will implement long-term governance that will bring everyone together in the name of the general interest, and pool the water resource and investment capacity that are now unevenly distributed. After the institutional aspect comes the democratic response through the association of civil society and, in particular, users. For the solution proposed by this demanding bill to be viable, the single union must be representative, and it will be so: with the local elected representatives, who will sit on the trade union council; but also with the users, who will have a right of control over the actions of their elected representatives and whose words will be indispensable for this public service to be effective. This structure must also give an important place to the debate in order to act, in conjunction with the State services, for the benefit of all the Guatemalans and all the Guatemalans. Finally, the answer must be responsible for reassuring and responding to the concerns raised by the creation of the single union, which will obviously not be without consequences. If it is not possible for this new union to be created with plethora of staff – which would put its financial viability at risk, which would have an impact on users' water bills – it is also not possible to leave staff on the tile. As the Minister for Overseas Affairs has said, a solution will be found for everyone, either within the new structure or the EPCIs that are members of it, or by negotiating voluntary departures, the latter being obviously very important. A dedicated unit has been activated by the State on the subject in order to accompany the work of setting up a plan of voluntary departures, particularly in retirement. In order for this new single union to go on a sound footing, the issue of debt is obviously an important concern. The bill had to respond, establishing a simple and common-sense principle: only bank debts would be taken over. Supplier debts are therefore excluded from the scheme. They will have to be honoured by the relevant EPCIs, in particular through the receivables. We are aware of the serious financial difficulties that this could entail for some IEPs. Once again, Sébastien Lecornu has pledged, in this forum, that debt will remain sustainable for the EPCIs, who will have a key role in the new structure. [[Applause on some of the issues in the LaREM Group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary initiative carried out with courage by the rapporteur is a first step which, in the face of urgency, brings concrete solutions. Where, until now, the problem gave rise to division, this first step will bring together under the banner of the general interest this beautiful island of Guadeloupe. The creation of a single water union is a new beginning. This is what politics does best: concrete for our citizens. We call on all local elected representatives to move forward on its prefiguration the day after the adoption of the text, and even before the electoral deadlines. Like any piece of legislation, the bill is not an end in itself: it calls on local authorities and the state to turn words into action and to assume their responsibilities in order to achieve the results our fellow citizens have been waiting for for too long. It is a popular text, made for the Guadeloupians, to which I am very proud – as is the Minister of Overseas Affairs – to help.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u6	In the general debate, Mr. Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u7	Access to safe drinking water and effective sanitation is a human right and one of the goals of sustainable development – the sixth. While France does not appear to face any difficulties in making this right effective, major dysfunctions actually persist in some territories. In Guadeloupe, for example, the public service for drinking water and sanitation has serious and structural deficiencies which affect its functioning, marked by frequent water cuts of various sizes and origins. Its particularly old distribution system does not allow water to be delivered to all inhabitants. Only one third of the pumped water is distributed and the efficiency of the system does not exceed 40 to 50% – a huge waste. This alarming finding did not date back to 2021: in a 2018 report, the General Inspectorate of Administration (IGA) already pointed to a "severe crisis situation, of a systemic nature, with the proliferation of cuts, creating risks to public health and strong economic constraints". The IGA then called for an ambitious, indispensable and urgent plan of action. This plan will be possible thanks to the initiative of our colleague rapporteur Justine Benin, whose work I welcome. This unacceptable situation, aggravated by the health crisis of the Covid-19, must not persist in our country. That is why, on the occasion of our parliamentary niche on 28 January, Justine Benin tabled a bill to create a single service for drinking water and sanitation in continental Guadeloupe. This text of pragmatism and responsibility is the result of a long phase of dialogue with all the actors involved; His consensual parliamentary journey is therefore not surprising. Adopted at first reading in the National Assembly and then in the Senate, it has just been agreed in a Joint Joint Committee, with some editorial changes. As you have pointed out, the rapporteur, this text is not a law of dispossession, but a beautiful law of justice and efficiency, which recognizes the role of the department and the region, which has been involved in the matter for years, and that of the intercommunities, which will now be able to rely on effective governance at the service of the Guadeloupian citizens. I hope that the communities will now seize this text, following in the footsteps of parliamentary action, including the wonderful work of Justine Benin, to sign the end of violations of the right of access to drinking water and sanitation in Guadeloupe. It will have taken determination, Madam rapporteur, to achieve this result! You seized this file with arms-on-body, as you knew that a mountain of obstacles was standing in front of you. You did not give up anything, you did not give in to the sirens of resignation that some invited you to listen to throughout the preparation of the text. You have addressed the problem with all of your humanity, with your heart as a woman, your eyes as a citizen and your will as a legislator, concerned with the general interest. Like you, the Minister of Overseas Affairs, Sébastien Lecornu, noted the reluctance of some local elected officials to deal with a matter of local jurisdiction by national law; But, like you and us, the Government has considered this text indispensable for improving the public water service in the archipelago. This option seems to be the most appropriate in view of the urgency of the local situation. Parliament has therefore just set an important first step towards ensuring that all Guatemalans have access to a quality water service. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcome this, because no one should remain on the side of the road leading to the effective right to water. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Dear Justine Benin, the Guatemalans can be proud of your work; We democrats are proud of what you have done for the Guadeloupees. We will vote in favour of the CMP text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u8	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u9	I am taking the floor instead of my colleague Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe, who cannot be present today. It was she who followed, for the Socialist and related group, this very vital subject for the Guadeloupe Archipelago, being particularly involved and trying to improve the text. It has done so, I believe, in good intelligence with our rapporteur, who has effectively defended in the CMP the advances voted by the Assembly, despite the fact that some of the Senate's deletions have been maintained. Should we, however, be satisfied with the outcome of this project? We would have preferred that the State, which alone took the initiative of this operation, should have completed its approach; That's not the case. Beyond the important issue of governance, a number of issues remain outstanding. What to do with the node of the problem – the liabilities of current structures and supplier debts? The text remains silent and nothing is really settled. In the House, you have certainly agreed, without this commitment having legal value, to raise only EUR 44 million in financial debts in the future union, but what are we talking about in practice? What about the total debt of 191 million? What guarantees do you give to the verbal commitments made here with regard to the 100 employees of the Intermunicipal Water Supply and Sanitation Union of Guadeloupe (SIAEAG)? All this naturally concerns the past and the present, but also the future: there is still 700 million euros to be found. Given the financial situation of this case, let us make it clear that the "water pays" principle will simply not apply in the short term. Therefore, the State must commit itself. The state must give the new union the means to find financial sustainability and profitability. This period of crisis offers you several tools: recovery plan, creation of structures of defeat or, better still, a state guarantee over thirty years of 500 million euros of loans to the communities. By rejecting these options repeatedly proposed by our group, the state is making a serious mistake. At a time when billions are raining, we see a risk of non-help to a people in danger. Of course, water is a local competence; Never, however, has the State recognized that in an earlier period, the review of legality has clearly failed. Despite these substantive remarks, we remain realistic: this text does have an added value, that of ignoring the will of local actors to move things forward. Honesty demands that all local attempts to create a single water management authority have failed so far. Let us therefore recognize the benefit of forcing elected representatives to agree to move forward, even if no one can ignore the risk of constitutional censorship. We also ask that the Government tell us today what will happen in the coming weeks of the local joint union (SMO), endorsed by the Prefect in parallel with the draft union proposed by the text. This is a game of fools that would sooner or later have to be clarified. Finally, my colleague would like to see you give details of the guarantees you will give to ensure the sustainability of the method of water management in the form of a governance, in Trois-Rivières. Creating a single union without taking into account the financial situation of well-managed municipal authorities can eventually create other problems. [[Applause on the SOC group's banks. – The rapporteur also called on the Commission to:]] Despite these many remarks and warnings, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text. I also heard your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u10	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u11	The subject we are talking about is very important for Guadeloupe, but also for the overseas region in general. I would like to recall some worrying figures: more than half of the world's population does not have access to sanitation, and a third does not have access to safe drinking water. At the national level, 97 per cent of French people in hexagon have access to drinking water and 88 per cent have access to sanitation, but the overseas region is 40 years behind schedule. Of course, there are funding and organisational problems, but our overseas citizens, particularly in Guyana, Mayotte, Guadeloupe and Polynesia, face very high costs for very small areas of population; This explains, among other things, the delays in investment. I would therefore like to welcome the fact that these funds are a priority within the framework of the recovery plan. A new development and transformation contract between the French state and Polynesia has just been approved, which gives priority to the support of the municipalities, to enable them to invest in these areas. It is imperative to fill the gaps in access to water and sanitation, as they constitute a barrier to development and pose a health and safety problem in our territories. The Action Together Group will, of course, support the bill. The health crisis has amplified the serious and structural deficiencies of the Guadeloupe public service of drinking water, which suffers from organizational difficulties, frequent water cuts, ruptures of pipes and network problems. This is a very worrying situation and I congratulate our rapporteur for trying to respond to it. The shuttle took advantage of the text: we owe the Senate a number of contributions, including the work of Senator Françoise Dumont. Thanks to the Senate, the union created by the text will be able to study the feasibility of implementing social water pricing for the most modest users; This is an important issue for the deployment of this policy and the financial balance of the model. The work of the Senate has also made it possible to relax certain rules relating to financial contributions and left the door open for the participation of the monitoring commission, which will bring together the associations of users and of environmental protection. I regret the removal of Members' presence, but I know that they can always be heard by the Supervisory Committee, which will have a consultative voice. [[Mrs LiseMagnier and Mrs La Rapporteureapplaudent]] Overall, we are of course in favour of this text, but we are taking this opportunity to alert national representatives to the overall situation with regard to access to water in the overseas countries and territories. Much remains to be done; We ask you to support our efforts to speed up investment programmes in these areas and to catch up with the delays in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u12	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u13	The UDI-I Group welcomes your initiative, Madam rapporteur, to have tabled this bill as part of the Dem Group's own-initiative parliamentary day. The text was jointly tabled in the Senate and, as you have said, has been enriched by the consensual work of both Houses of Parliament, and then by the Joint Joint Committee, whose drafting, I am sure, will also be the subject of consensus in this House. The proposed law aims to take a first step in trying to solve a vital problem for Guadeloupe, that of access for all to quality water, in sufficient quantity, continuously – this continuity is now lacking in Guadeloupe – and at a sustainable price for consumers, residents and visitors of the archipelago. The text lays down a new principle of governance, based on the reflection that has been carried out – without necessarily benefiting from the support of local elected representatives – within the framework of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act, which has transferred the competence of water management and sanitation to public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation. This transfer of powers is still taking place in different local and regional authorities and is not without a few problems, including in the area of governance. The model proposed under this bill may be interesting in terms of seeking consensus in an enlarged territory to deal with the issues of drinking water, sanitation, small cycles and large water cycles, problems of even greater acuity in a context of insularity than when they arise on metropolitan territory. As you said, this is obviously only a first step, and we will have to face other major challenges, including the massive investments needed to reduce the very high rate of drinking water escape: this rate is about 65%, which is unacceptable both in terms of environmental protection and in terms of the management of a public service and the access of our citizens to drinking water. These massive investments are necessary, and the reflection they require cannot be separated from that on debt management, now split in two and which will weigh not only on the newly created union but also on the EPCIs, who retain part of this competence and therefore still have to bear the financial burden resulting from it. We have heard and relay your calls to the State to ensure that, by way of derogation from the principle that water is paid by the consumer, in exceptional cases such as this one the State can intervene to support local and regional authorities, particularly in the field of investment. Perhaps the recovery plan could be used on these issues. This is, in short, the state of mind of the UDI-I Group, which will vote for the text as it emerges from the work of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u14	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u15	Since 2010, access to safe drinking water has been recognized by the United Nations (UN) as a fundamental human right. In France, the fact that every person can have access to drinking water at home is also one of the fundamental rights. However, this access to drinking water is now very unsatisfied in Guadeloupe: this territory, although very rich in water, encounters great difficulties in the management of the supply. Cuts are frequent and affect the majority of Guatemalans. On the other hand, the price of water is the highest in France, even though the region is relatively poor. Many Guatemalans find it difficult to pay their water bills. Overall, the Guadeloupe water system is described as very ineffective by World Bank indicators. A number of explanations are given to justify this serious failure, including the outdated distribution system, the lack of investment or even a significant loss. But the main problem is the poor organisation of the management of the public water service. Disagreement between the various actors, in particular between public and private actors, is invoked. Our group is well aware of the difficulty of the situation faced by the people of Guatemala and we understand the exasperation of part of the population. Thus, we fully share the ambition of the bill. This proposal to transform water governance in Guadeloupe has been postponed several times since 2018. Called for by the Gaddelupian unions, which is a positive point in our view, it was announced by Minister Sébastien Lecornu last November. We welcome the additions adopted in the Committee on the Laws of our Assembly to enable civil society to be better taken into account in public water management, with the creation of a supervisory committee to the joint trade union, composed of representatives of trade unions and local associations. We are also satisfied with the contributions of the Senate to ensure better representation of local elected officials and to strengthen the prerogatives of this commission. We regret, however, that the representatives of the users, who are present in the supervisory committee, are not also present in the trade union committee. However, while our group shares the objective of the bill and welcomes the spirit of trans-party consensus that prevailed during the parliamentary shuttle, we would like to reiterate several points. First of all, as far as the financial question is concerned, we are talking about a commitment by the State of the order of EUR 10 million in the framework of the recovery plan, whereas the estimated total cost for the renovation of the public drinking water service is at the bottom of the line at EUR 900 million: under these conditions, how will the renovation be financed? We find it a pity that the funding is not more detailed. Then, should this territorial issue really have been resolved in Paris? In our view, the search for consensus at the local level must always take precedence over the imposition of a standard from the top. We do not consider the management of the public drinking water service of a territorial community to be a matter of law. For us, it was not for the National Assembly to decide on the internal organisation of water management in Guadeloupe, but for the deliberative assemblies of Guadeloupe. The people of Guatemala, like the people of other communities, must remain fully sovereign over their internal political organization. This position has always been ours on the issue of water and sanitation management. The sharing of competence or its transfer to a higher level must be on a voluntary basis and be implemented by the local authorities themselves. This is probably one of the reasons why there is not a full consensus among local elected officials. One of the EPCIs concerned thus announced that they did not support this approach which could be perceived as brutal and downhill. In the end, although we share the ambition of this bill, we will abstain, because the method used, supported by the Government, is, in our view, insufficiently respectful of the autonomy of local communities, to which our group is very attached. We do not want to give our approval to a precedent of this order on such a decentralized competence, although, I repeat, the subject deserves determined action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u16	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u17	"Water is an accident in our home," the Guadeloupees say. Indeed, the situation in Guadeloupe reminds us at every moment how much to turn its tap to get water is far from being obvious to some of our compatriots. In the absence of water, citizens improvise, shower with bottles of water, sometimes go to sports clubs to ensure their daily hygiene, live at the rate of laundry at the wash of the neighborhood, tend buckets under each open tap to enjoy the slightest drop when the pressure comes back in the pipes. But even when the water is there, is it wise to drink it? Chlordecone's health, social and ecological scandal is still high. In 2016, the first 36 materials detected by the Water Board were pesticides, including 16 currently banned substances – among which chlordecone was most often found. In Guadeloupe, the disaster has two faces: water is a rare resource, but it can be contaminated by this toxic pesticide that has poisoned humans, soils and water for generations, and on which the responsibility of the State is committed. On this catastrophic and unworthy situation of our Republic, there is no possible controversy. An inter-ministerial audit in 2018 made it clear: it is a systemic crisis with considerable human and financial costs. So catastrophic that, over there, the cubic metre of water is charged a third more expensive than here. So catastrophic that, for every 100 cubic metres of water captured in the rivers, on average only 40 cubic metres can be distributed to the population, while Guadeloupe has twice as much fresh water per capita as hexagonal France. If 40 cubic meters are distributed for 100 cubic meters captured, where has the water passed? In the wild, colleagues! For this, we can thank Veolia, who has underinvested in the repair of leaks and pipes for decades, thus plunging 400,000 people into a situation of water stress and immense distress. And where did the money go? Veolia is moving from a budgetary surplus of EUR 18 million between 2000 and 2007 to a deficit of more than EUR 100 million over the period 2010-2015, with networks left behind. Veolia and SIAEAG leave behind a huge debt. The Guadeloupeans and the Guadeloupeans can no longer, they are tired of suffering from these manoeuvres, they do not believe that they can one day have access to the fundamental right of water, this fundamental human right enshrined by the United Nations eleven years ago at the initiative of Bolivia and yet flouted in our country. Believe it, colleagues, they will pay particular attention to how the resource will be managed from now on. Unfortunately, as we have already told you, we will not know any more about this bill. Who's gonna pay Veolia's debt? Who will pay the billion euros needed to rehabilitate the drinking water system in Guadeloupe? What will happen to the employees of the former SIAEAG? We will not know, nor will we know whether the establishment of a public administration in consultation with the users will be guaranteed, the experiences of public administration showing, however, that this method of management translates into three times more investments in the water heritage and the financial costs on the water bill of the users divided by ten, because it is a system that restores the notion of long time. As alerter Raymond Avrillier explains, "to give services to the private sector is to lose services, it is to lose memory, it is to lose knowledge, it is a heritage that we have been dispossessed of. But it is above all a crazy bet: to put in the hands of private interests and the market the resource essential to the most precious life we have. There's an alert on the water and the Guadeloupians know better than anyone. Colleagues, it is our historic responsibility to ensure that what Guadeloupe is experiencing is not a general repetition of a situation that may one day affect our country as a whole. This is the number one issue of our century, when the water cycle is deeply disturbed. While France experienced thirteen episodes of drought between 1964 and 1990, it saw sixty-two between 1991 and 2015. Water quality is at risk, polluted in particular by our productive agricultural model. Water is wasted, so leaks represent the annual consumption of 18.5 million people per year. Water, in some places, is looted by multinationals. In just over a fortnight, France, together with various political, associative and trade union organizations, had nearly 300,000 people voted across the country on the fundamental issue of water. Citizens were invited to answer the following question: "Are you in favour of the inclusion in the French Constitution of the right to water and sanitation, to protect water and to prohibit its seizure by multinationals? » Voters answered yes to 99.61%, which shows that citizens have become aware of the alert better than those who govern us. Our compatriots in Guadeloupe deserve your attention to the question of water with all the more seriousness as it concerns their lives. We will abstain from this text. The anger of the Guadeloupeans and the Guadeloupeans cannot be tarnished with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u18	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u19	All the eyes of the Guadeloupian and the Guadeloupian are looking at us right now, so important is the subject. It is quite simple, the situation on the ground has reached such a serious level that water is now the primary concern of the people of Guatemala, in the face of unemployment, health, chlordecone pollution and safety. How could this be achieved, to the point that in 2021 the first concern of 400,000 citizens of the sixth world power is to know when they will finally be able to access quality and uncut water when they open their taps? This concern is all the more legitimate since the Guadeloupees are the ones who pay the most for water in France: 3.25 euros per cubic metre on average compared to 1.05 euros on average in Hexagon. As has been said and repeated, water management in Guadeloupe has been a monumental failure for several decades: misappropriation of funds, illegal taking of interests, multiple and chronic failures, which have led to several convictions and, ultimately, to the surreal situation in which we find ourselves today. That is why we can only understand the sincere approach taken by our colleague Justine Benin, who aims to improve the governance of water supply, which is essential for modernising the networks, and to respond to the urgency by creating a single service for drinking water and sanitation in continental Guadeloupe. We can only decently share this ambition to get out of the rut quickly to allow all the inhabitants of Guadeloupe without exception to have access to safe drinking water and an efficient sanitation service, which is a fundamental human right, which is one of the objectives of sustainable development – the sixth. Nor can we ignore the influence of Oudinot Street, as the Overseas Ministry has made a major contribution to the bill... If we want to believe in the good will of our colleague from the Dem Group when she says that it is not a question of questioning the legitimate powers of the EPCI, but rather of offering them support for a way out of the crisis, in fact, the method employed leads no more or less to pressure local authorities, which are already moving towards a convergence towards a similar solution. We are not the only ones to question the method used since it is denounced by the first concerned, the Guadeloupean elected representatives, in particular those of the regional executive, but also by many associations and activists. And for good reason, since the bill is legislating on an area that is part of local management! Once again, the communities concerned had already agreed on the need to converge towards an open joint union. Therefore, we see this legislative initiative as a warning to refractory communities that we believe is in complete contradiction with the principle of the free administration of communities. The bill is therefore a cause for great concern on our part at a time when all overseas communities are legitimately asking for greater management autonomy. In substance, we recognize that this text has the merit of giving a boost to the local synergy already under way, but too slow. Nevertheless, the problem of debt financing and the necessary investment remains. However, the colossal sum of EUR 300 million, currently estimated, has been completely ignored. Let's say things as they are: Veolia and SIAEAG, the former operator, leave behind them a debt of more than 100 million. So everyone's wondering, who's gonna pay? Unfortunately, we have a little idea of the answer, since the Government decided unilaterally to dissolve SIAEAG and ordered the region and the départements of Guadeloupe to bear the operating costs alone during the transitional period. Who, then, can be satisfied with such a decision? It would have been better to take advantage of the opportunity of the debates held in the Assembly since January to find alternative solutions with regard to these charges, which cannot go back to the Guadeloupeans alone, since, obviously, responsibility is shared. We consider the Government's decision to be very unfair. The State must shoulder its share of responsibility and live up to it. You cannot, on the one hand, interfere in a local matter and, on the other hand, completely dislodge you when it comes to taking on the financial defeat! For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u20	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u21	The Joint Joint Committee meeting on 23 March reached agreement on the proposal for a law renovating the governance of public drinking water and sanitation services in Guadeloupe. First of all, I want to thank the rapporteur, my colleague Justine Benin, and Senator Dominique Théophile, for the work they have done with all stakeholders for several months. I would also like to commend our fellow senators with whom we have been able, in the Joint Joint Committee, to reach a fair and balanced agreement. The various provisions discussed have been the subject of a consensus and will finally allow the Guadeloupeans and the Guadeloupeans to recover water from their taps. We wanted to ensure that the sewage treatment will now be carried out in conditions worthy of our compatriots in order to avoid a future health scandal. The water crisis in Guadeloupe is an already ancient scourge, which has unacceptable and burdensome consequences for everyday life. Drinking water has not reached the taps of the inhabitants of Guadeloupe in sufficient quantity and quality for almost forty years. They endure with patience and resignation of incessant water cuts, days and sometimes even weeks without water. That is why it is imperative that this text, which is the result of collective work, should come into being. Successive changes in governance, mismanagement and financial gabegy have helped to make water and sanitation systems obsolete and deprive our users of an elementary resource. The bill goes beyond partisan divides and finally allows the creation of a single structure dedicated to the management, clean up of drinking water and also, we must insist, to the management of rainwater. The large water cycle of Guadeloupe is thus covered. The exchanges with representatives of the State, elected representatives, user associations and all the Guatemalans were significant. As we know, the confidence of our fellow citizens in the institutions has been shattered by the water scandal. Yet it is an essential resource for the stability of democracy. At the first reading of the bill, the National Assembly adopted the establishment of a monitoring commission to the joint water and sanitation management union in Guadeloupe and reached a compromise with the Government on the issue of supplier debts. We call on the Government to fulfil the commitments it has made orally and to ensure that global funding is promptly committed. With respect to the Senate's input on the text, I would like to commend the work of all senators in strengthening the oversight committee's prerogatives and adapting the operation and administration of the union committee. We have also retained the scope of the feasibility study of a social pricing of water, which will open up an interesting reflection for the Guatemalans in view of the local economic and social realities. I would remind you that the water distributed to the users of Guadeloupe is one of the most expensive in France. With this bill on which we are going to vote in a few moments, it is a matter of reinventing the general interest of Guadeloupe and taking it as the only compass. This text is an opportunity to make viable a new unique union for the management of drinking water, sewerage and stormwater coming from the Grand-Fonds which flood both our plains and our homes and which have already killed in Guadeloupe. This bill is therefore only a first step. As you said, field work will have to be carried out in order to achieve full mobilization of funding and the creation of the joint union for the management of drinking water, sewerage and rainwater. I know how much the elected representatives of Guadeloupe are aware of the exceptional nature of this problem and I trust – yes, I trust! – in our ability to succeed, for the benefit of present and future generations. I would also like to stress the courage of the associations and committees of water users of Guadeloupe, which make a voice necessary to ensure the well-being of the population, at the heart of our struggle for all. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs MaudPetitetMs the rapporteur alsoapplause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move, I call on you to vote in favour of the Joint Joint Committee's conclusions and thus to take responsibility for bringing water to the taps of our fellow citizens and giving them confidence in democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u22	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u23	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u24	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u25	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u26	The next item is the proposal for a law to protect young minors from sexual crimes and incest (No. 4029, 4048).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u27	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u28	I want to say in the preamble: yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have been at the meeting to take a historic step together in the fight against sexual violence against minors. Let's take a look at the path we have taken in a few months and even in a few weeks. If we can now look forward to discussing some progress, it is because the conditions have been patiently met, from collective awareness to the strong commitment of the President of the Republic, to the mobilization of parliamentarians on all sides. We can all proudly claim this reform. While the Government has chosen, on the basis of the majority, to bring about the prosperity of the Senate bill, I would like to express to you again publicly my full support for its author, President Annick Billon, who has been the subject of a scandalous disinformation campaign, coupled with a surge of hatred. It is intolerable to present parliamentary work in a truncated manner, because it helps to weaken our democracy and to cast an unbearable trouble, as you are about to vote for historical progress. Unfortunately, blindness persists. I have been able to read again recently erroneous assertions that this reform would lead to an alleged setback, and worse, to complacency with some sexual abusers; They cast discredit on our collective work, which would be basically a state lie. Our children deserve better than a bounded obscurantism in which the true is no longer distinguished from the false. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who can seriously say that we have not been able to act? Who can say that we did not immediately learn the collective awareness allowed by the tsunami of the revelations we knew a few weeks ago? Who can say that Parliament – you – has not mobilized for an unprecedented strengthening of criminal law, in order to better protect our children? Who can say that in the face of the urgency of the situation, the Government, following the unrelenting commitment of the President of the Republic, has not put all its energy into finding a solid legal solution? Who can say, finally, when you have lifted the session by having adopted this text in conformity, that we will all have decided on a step back for the protection of our children, leaving them at the mercy of sexual predators? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This must stop! The truth must be restored. Such a law would be historic for our children, but also for our society. Let it be said and well said. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat here that we have together, the Senate, the Assembly and the Government, been able to build new penal provisions while maintaining the progress made earlier. I have already said it and I am hammering it: no adult assailant will be able to avail himself of the consent of a minor under the age of 15. Because the pedagogic work to be carried out on this particularly sensitive subject is immense, I also repeat that no, adolescents or young adults aged 18 to 20 do not benefit from a white-seing allegedly granted by the new provisions. [[Same movements]] But I say today, as I did on 15 March, that it is also not a question, by adopting this text, of censoring the sexuality of our teenagers. The whole of society must hear this message, which is addressed in particular to our children and young people: neither white-seing nor censorship, but just proportion for just protection. For yes, we want to protect them from the worst without forbidding teenage love, of which we know, some do not mind, that it is simply part of life. The debates about the age gap, since that is what it is about, are legitimate; They must make it possible to achieve a balanced text that respects all the requirements of our rule of law. In some cases, automatic criminalization may only be applied with proportionality in French law. In order to arrive at this version which manages to agree the overwhelming majority and, I hope, to obtain unanimity, it took the commitment of the President of the Republic, of course, but also the full involvement of the Government – Adrien Taquet and myself, supported by the colossal work of the services of the Chancellery; Last but not least, it has taken the full mobilisation of Parliament, from one chamber to another, from one end of each Chamber to the other, so that we can finally act together on this progress in our criminal law. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Marie Mercier, and you, the rapporteur, dear Alexandra Louis. You have been an asset to the Assembly, to the majority, to the Government, and to this cause that we are ardently defending. I would also like to welcome the action of parliamentarians of the majority, particularly mobilized to enable these advances. I am thinking first of all of President Castaner, who, in agreement with the Government, allowed the necessary inclusion of Billon's bill on the parliamentary time of the LaREM Group. Then I think of Presidents Mignola and Becht, who supported our approach without trembling, as it echoed the mobilizations of their respective groups. Finally, I am thinking of the Chair of the Committee on Laws, as well as of the Chair of the delegation on women's rights, of course, and of Members Jean Terlier, Isabelle Florennes, Dimitri Houbron and Erwan Balanant. Impossible to finish not having a word for Mrs Santiago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u30	... as well as for the deputies of all the groups, who have been able to mobilize themselves to make possible the historic evolution that is about to take place. I say to all of you: let us join us so that this text can be adopted unanimously, and that no doubt will remain again. We don't touch children! In a few words, you are about to vote, I hope, nothing less than the removal of the criterion of consent for sexual relations between a major and a minor of 15 years of age; the addition of the oral act to the definition of rape, in order to protect children equally, whether they are girls or boys; Repressing the use of prostitution for minors under 15 years of age, which is considered rape or sexual assault; the extension of the statute of limitations in case of multiple victims – I had committed myself to it and the proposed scheme allows equal judicial treatment for all victims; the creation of the offence of "sextorsion"; the extension of convictions to be included in the FIJAIS – automated judicial file of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences; Strengthening the repression of incest through incestuous rape and autonomous incestous sexual assaults in the Criminal Code, which protects all minors. Because the requirement of de jure or de facto authority for collateral is not understood by some, I will be very concrete; Only one example must silence criticism. Imagine a 17-year-old brother, a 19-year-old sister, a torn sibling, the death of the father and an absent mother. The brother took the ascendant and imposed his law in the family; He will eventually impose sexual relations on his older sister. If you do not require the judge to seek out who exercises the authority in law or in fact, then the victim will be convicted instead of the aggressor. It's unthinkable! As the legislative process arrives, I hope, at its end, our only concern must now be to support the courts in the face of the cultural change that must spread throughout society. As soon as the new law is promulgated, I will endeavour to issue an enforcement circular, so that all judicial actors are ready to handle new criminality as quickly as possible and in the best possible conditions. Mrs Avia, dear Laetitia, this circular will also be an opportunity to clarify, in agreement with your amendment introduced at first reading, that in matters of sexual assault, prosecutors must be particularly cautious in dealing with abuses of whistle-blowing in relation to relationships agreed but disapproved by third parties – often by parents. There is a new demand for pedagogy towards our fellow citizens: we cannot tolerate baseless accusations, which could be used as a pretext to reduce the protection of certain categories of victims. [[Applause on the banks of the groupsLaREMetAgirens. – Mrs IsabelleFlorennesapplauditedalso]] You will have understood this: like you, I will tirelessly pursue the commitments of the President of the Republic to tell the victims that they are no longer alone, and to tell them that we hear them. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u31	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u32	We are meeting again today to discuss the bill to protect minors from sexual crimes and incest. We can collectively be proud of the work we have done. I am thinking, of course, first of all of the associations, whose work I would like first of all to welcome, which for years have been warning with pugnacity about the reality of these sexual crimes. The Government, for its part – the keeper of seals recalled – responded to the request made on 23 January by the President of the Republic to Éric Dupond-Moretti and to me: he had asked us to consult with judicial and child protection actors, to formulate proposals as quickly as possible and to make them concrete. All this is also possible thanks to the action of Parliament, which thus responds to the issue identified by many members of the House of Commons and senators – I also greet Annick Billon and Marie Mercier, Alexandra Louis, Isabelle Santiago and all the Members who have legislated on these issues. The work will have been carried out expeditiously and effectively to respond to the urgency posed by the endemic nature of these crimes in our country. I have therefore of course a thought for the tens of thousands of victims who have expressed themselves, each with its own words, each according to its own path, to what it has gone through and to the particular relationship it has with the subjects we are discussing today; Each, therefore, in its individuality and singularity, which must be respected as such. By not wanting to hear, by not wanting to believe, by not wanting to denounce, by offering inadequate care and accompaniment, or even failing, when they were not in existence, and by providing a sometimes inadequate criminal response, we have for a long time failed to consider the victims. The responsibility of the public authorities is indisputable from this point of view. Beyond that, it was society as a whole that, struck by some kind of blindness, had failed to measure the problem. With this text, the keeper of the seals reminded him, we bring strong answers. First of all, the determination of an age below which the concept of consent will not even be in question, leading to a more systematic repression of the perpetrators. There is also a response to the strengthening of the statute of limitations, so that justice can really be done. A response also on the recognition of incest as a specific crime, different from rape on minors – by better protecting children from sexual crimes within their families, we are taking a decisive step in asserting the absolute social prohibition of incest. It is therefore an undeniable step forward in protecting minors from sexual violence. And he's not saying anything else. It is not a regression, it is not a dangerous text, as we were able to read. Let us collectively ensure that we do not blur our message to the victims. We have a duty vis-à-vis them, to rebuild trust, a trust broken by decades of individual denial, institutional denial, and collective denial. The return of confidence is not only based on the vote on this text, of course, but this text of progress will certainly contribute to it. It is indeed a step forward to better protect children from silence and shame by extending the statute of limitations for non-denunciation of sexual violence against minors. It is a step forward in criminalizing the use of prostitution of minors under the age of 15 by classifying it as rape and punishing it with 20 years' imprisonment. It is a step forward to punish the adult for up to ten years in prison who would ask a minor to send him pictures of his naked person. It is still a step forward to create a new crime of "sextorsion". It is a step forward to expand the offences on the sex offender register. Who could claim that these provisions do not better protect our children and thus decide on the responsibility not to vote them? But because punishment is not enough, we must of course also prevent and accompany. This bill thus forms part of a much broader indispensable movement which refers to the work undertaken at the request of the President of the Republic on 23 January, in order, on the one hand, to guarantee the psychological care of the victims – a subject on which we are working with Olivier Véran –, in order to make the school a central area of prevention, in particular through the setting up of two screening and prevention appointments against sexual violence in primary school and then at the college, and this from the beginning of the 2021 school year, which we are working on with Jean-Michel Blanquer. This work also concerns the action launched by the independent commission on incest and sexual violence against children, co-chaired by Édouard Durand and Nathalie Mathieu, whose work we will be many to follow with attention will have to lead to the dissemination of a true culture of prohibitions on incest, to the implementation of a genuine training programme for all professionals in contact with minors, or to better protection of children with disabilities, on the basis, in particular, of proposals already submitted to us by the working group led by Céline Poulet, general secretary of the interdepartmental committee on disability, which involves a number of persons with disabilities. In this regard, it is proposed, inter alia, to make compulsory the collection of the child's consent for each intervention on his or her body and to involve him or her in all decisions taken by adapting, according to his or her disability, the explanations given. [[Applause on the banks of the groupsLaREMetAgirens.– Mrs Marie-GeorgeBuffetIsabelleFlorennesalsoapplause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are, I am convinced – and I know you are convinced – at a turning point. What has just begun is nothing less than a cultural struggle that we must fight tirelessly to win. We owe it to the victims who must regain confidence destroyed by years of dysfunction and denial, we owe it to ourselves as a society. Your vote will mark the beginning of a new era of progress in the prevention and protection of children. We called for it and all of us will take part in it in order, in the end, to break with a culture of domination and to move on to a true culture of prevention and protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u33	I call Mrs Alexandra Louis, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u34	"Our laws [...], in our culture, bring about a change in attitudes, before changing themselves. These words of Gisèle Halimi remind us that criminal law must contribute to the change of society. It must face the scourge of sexual violence against minors, particularly in the face of the scourge of incest. To develop a culture of protection and non-violence, this bill is an important step in this fight led for decades by the defenders of children and some of our fellow citizens engaged well before the # MeToo movement. In response to this societal challenge, Parliament and the Government have mobilized in a spirit of consensus. Thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for this end of procedure has been carried out with speed, efficiency and, above all, with a great deal of listening. As everyone knows, we have thoroughly reviewed the provisions originally adopted by senators. Because it was a partnership, because it involved the Government, because it received unanimous support from the Assembly, this work, although very different from the orientations decided on at first reading by senators, largely convinced them at second reading. I will quote from what my colleague, Marie Mercier, has written in the Senate, whose remarkable work I welcome: "The text resulting from the work of the National Assembly considerably strengthens the protection of minors from sexual violence in accordance with our constitutional principles. It responds to the concerns expressed by both the Senate and the National Assembly. In this context, the committee believes that a balance has been reached and does not wish to weaken this compromise. » The Senate has adopted many of our positions. That is why we are no longer seized of the precise definition of rape, nor of the recasting of the offence of exhibitionism, nor of the rules of operation of the automated judicial register of perpetrators of sexual offences. I will say a word on the issue of the statute of limitations – a provision also voted in conformity. This is something that several of you have stressed in committee, and I am thinking in particular of our colleagues Savignat and Houbron. As a lawyer, I am committed to the statute of limitations in principle and to legal certainty. As a woman politician and citizen, I like everyone here to support a demand for justice for the victims and sanctions against the perpetrators. However, the proposed system reconciles these two contradictory imperatives. We reach the end of the possible adjustments, this is the last extension: one more step would mean imprescriptibility. You have to be aware of that. I am pleased that, through the use of connectedness, we are using a mechanism known to judges and jurisprudence, which is therefore operational. On the fundamental questions of the age of consent at 15 years and the derogatory provision establishing it at 18 years of age in the event of incest, the Senate agreed to our position, but did not vote in identical terms for the corresponding articles. In clause 1, honourable senators wanted to best draft the sanction for soliciting a minor prostitute under the age of 15, a penalty that we had increased in public sittings. I will fully follow this reformulation. Such a request will, I would remind you, be treated as rape on a minor. Says more clearly: an adult who has sex in a prostitutional setting will be punished with 20 years' imprisonment – no one will be able to claim that Parliament has avoided the subject. The Senate has also recognized our system for incestuous rape of minors and our requirement for a de jure or de facto authority to distinguish the perpetrator from the victim. I know that this point has been misunderstood by some, particularly by the senators of the Socialist, environmental and republican group, and that the exchanges have sometimes been a little rough. So I will never stop explaining myself and repeating myself. Imputing the guilt of a sexual relationship with a 15-year-old child to a major is one thing, because the adult has the ascendant of the adult over the child, he is structurally in a position of domination. Between a 60-year-old man and a 14-year-old child, we all know who, as a matter of principle, must bear criminal responsibility. But in a sibling, one of whom is a major and the other aged between 15 and 18, this position of automatic domination does not exist. Judges must therefore be able to examine the facts and properly qualify them. If incestuous acts are committed between an 18-year-old sister and a 16-year-old brother, no one can say who should be criminally responsible. Pretending the opposite is a mistake of reasoning and moral fault, but it is also unconstitutional. Furthermore, it is important to recall that even if there is no legal or de facto authority, the judge will be able to describe sexual assault and rape by a family member as incestuous – I would like to clarify this because I have heard some confusion on this point. Finally, the Senate considered that the requirement of a five-year age difference supported the scheme. Our only substantive difference was in article 1 bis B, which dealt with the offence of sexual abuse of a 15-year-old. Consistently, we had modified this offence by integrating an age gap, adding the possibility of taking pressure into account, in order to prevent young adults from being prosecuted in the correctional court even though the relationship would have been consented to. The Senate opposed it, defending the law in force and the full capacity of the prosecutor's office. After reflection, this is an option that the commission has chosen: the prosecution will have to appropriate this new arsenal in order to make appropriate use of this subsidiary offence. A word, finally, about the incriminations of "sextorsion", whose inscription in the text was dear to many colleagues. I should like to express a slight hesitation: we decided to supplement the law in force, which is particularly weak, by giving investigators and magistrates the weapons they need to prosecute predators that occur online. To this end, we planned to penalise the objective fact of soliciting a minor of 15 years of age, on social networks, sexual images or the commission of a sexual act – we had considered this act by nature to constitute an offence. The Senate went further by applying this system to all minors, with an aggravating circumstance for those under the age of 15. However, the text enshrines the sexual freedom of those over the age of 15. I find it a little strange to allow everything in real life and to ban everything in the virtual world. That being the case, I opened my remarks by stressing the commitment of all to move forward quickly. As the Senate has agreed with most of our choices, I would obviously be wrong by preventing the completion of the process for this point in the text that is not fundamental. I also note that no one has questioned this wording; I will therefore associate myself with this formulation. As you will understand, I have no firm objection to the work of the Senate at this stage. That is why I have not tabled any amendments. I hope that we will reach the end of the legislative procedure today. [[Applause on the banks of the groupsLaREMetAgirens. – Mrs IsabelleFlorennesapplauditedalso]] Finally, I would like to convey to you a conviction which, I think, is shared by many of you: while it is important that criminal law be transformed to accompany a change in society, it must be supplemented by preventive measures. And I believe that as far as the subject we are concerned, everyone wants to take his part. I know the Government fully engaged in this process and I would like to commend and thank Adrien Taquet for his involvement. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to all the parliamentarians who participated in the advent of the text, those who sit under this Parliament and those who, before us, defended these same ideas without having been able to complete their implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u35	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Savignat spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u36	We are therefore finalizing the bill to protect minors from sexual crimes and incest. An important agreement was reached between the two Assemblies, which was necessary for the rapid adoption by Parliament of this text. While we are obviously looking forward to this procedure and to the future agreement of a large majority of us – and we hope that we will be unanimous – several issues still deserve our attention. The drafting of this bill, even if it strengthens the protection of minors, remains complex. It will now be necessary to distinguish rape, rape against a minor of 15 years of age, incestuous rape, sexual assault, sexual assault, aggravating circumstances – and all these offences will be difficult to enforce. Nevertheless, the text has several major advantages: it simplifies the qualification of rape, avoids requalification for lack of a constituent element and, combined with the criminal court system which protects the victim from the solemnity of the court of assize or the heaviness of its procedure, avoids the risk of requalification of opportunity, thus enabling him to obtain a quick response while being recognized as a victim of a crime and not a crime. We believe that these advances are essential. We owe them to our children. The question of the age difference, to which we were also opposed, considering that this arrangement lacked clarity, would have been settled more simply if it had been included in the text that the relationship with a minor of 15 years of age should be punished by 20 years of criminal imprisonment. The exception created is to lay down a ban under the age of 13, which, in our view, remains insufficient: account must be taken of the particular vulnerability of children in the assessment of sexual violence and of the difficulties to establish, on a case-by-case basis, the nature of a sexual relationship between a minor and a minor and the consent thereto. However, the Senate approved the scheme, finding that the National Assembly had been creative in retaining the 15-year-old threshold and in a different age range. He considered that the solution chosen by the National Assembly, in responding to its concerns, constituted the basis for a political agreement between the two chambers and therefore deserved to be retained. Which act – even if we believe that it will not solve everything and that this provision will raise questions by only responding in part to the opinion given by the Council of State in 2018. Many points were improved during the parliamentary shuttle. I am thinking in particular of the coherence of the scale of penalties, with the creation of new aggravating circumstances, or of the best coordination permitted by the extension of the new offence of "sextorsion" on the Internet: the latter will thus protect all minors, not only those under the age of 15, as is already the case for the offence of corruption of minors or for offences protecting minors from pornography. The Senate Law Committee has also simplified the drafting of article 227-25 of the Criminal Code on sexual assault by deleting the provision which makes it possible to consider that the offence is not constituted in the absence of pressure on the minor, preferring to leave it to the Public Prosecutor's Office to assess on a case-by-case basis whether or not it is appropriate to prosecute such cases. If we approve of these amendments, we regret, however, that it has not returned to article 4 quater on the slippery statute of limitations on sexual crimes against minors, which will therefore be adopted in conformity. As I said in previous discussions, however, the regime of prescriptions ensures the stability of our legal system, which guarantees social peace. It must therefore be modified not with a shaking hand, but with a cautious feather. The writing of this article, confused, will lead to a de facto imprescriptibility – or at least in the collective unconscious. Moreover, the retention of a slippery statute of limitations for offences that may run for more than forty years creates legal instability: it seems impossible, after such a long period, to prove and establish with certainty the facts during which the victim was often alone with his executioner. The latter may be exposed to illusory legal proceedings, which will not lead to convictions, adding pain to pain. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Notwithstanding these observations, this text is, as I pointed out earlier, a real step forward in the protection of minors, to which we owe the utmost attention. We shall vote on it, hoping that it will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u37	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u38	The fight against sexual violence against minors required the Assembly to work constructively, beyond political divisions. It was our responsibility to live up to the expectations of the victims, their pain and their will to live, not with the memory of these acts of dehumanization of rape, sexual assault and sexual abuse, but with the strength of a renaissance and with the rage that pushes to take control of his life, body and soul. Children who are victims of sexual violence increasingly have the courage to name and disclose. However, as Simone de Beauvoir said, "to reveal is already to act". That is why we must put our steps in their hands, put our hands in their hands, and act in our turn to protect them and to preserve their innocence and childhood, so indispensable for a successful adult life. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats have long been working on this painful and important issue. With our colleague Isabelle Santiago's bill and Senator Annick Billon's, we have finally been able to work really hard to develop concrete and strong provisions to strengthen the protection of minors from sexual crimes and incest. This text, which we are looking at at at second reading, is the result of a concerted and collaborative effort between parliamentarians and the chancery. I also welcome the commitment of Mr. Keeper of the Seals alongside the national representative, as well as that of our rapporteur, Alexandra Louis. Together with our fellow senators, we have established a legal framework that is protective, dissuasive, clear and enforceable by the judges. That's how we can help the victims rebuild and repair – even if it's never completely possible. Our group considers this bill to be balanced: greatly enriched in its first reading in the Senate and then in the National Assembly, it has evolved as we wished. That is why we have not tabled any amendments in committee or in committee for this second reading. The provisions contained in the text are relevant and operational. I am thinking in particular of the 15-year-old non-consent threshold, the age gap of five years, which reinforces the constitutionality of the scheme by preserving teenage love, the protection of minors up to 18 years from incest, the family perimeter having evolved to include great-uns and great-aunts, the creation of mechanisms to postpone the statute of limitations for crimes and sexual offences against minors, the introduction, recalled by the rapporteur, of the offence of "sextorsion", and the criminalization of prostitution of minors through the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures must now be implemented quickly. I hope that this meeting will be the expression of our union to act in this direction. The Dem group, for its part, will be present at this meeting of responsibility for, as Baudelaire could have said, taking the children away from this mud made of their tears, far from the crimes, from the pains, in this "scented paradise, where under a clear azure everything is only love and joy, where all that one loves is worthy of being loved". [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] As you will understand, our group will vote fervently on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u39	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u40	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u41	For the third time in three months, the National Assembly is called upon to take a decision on a bill to protect minors from sexual crimes and incest. This particularly dense calendar obliges us. On this issue, concerning the protection of minors, it is important that Parliament speak with a strong voice: the consensus of the assemblies must be added to the unanimity of the Members in order to send a clear and audible message to our fellow citizens. I admit that I have learned a great deal during this period: I have only been a parliamentarian for six and a half months, and I must acknowledge, in hindsight, how fortunate it was to be to be able, upon my arrival, to table on behalf of my group a bill to set a 15-year-old non-consent threshold and to say that a child under the age of 18 cannot consent to incest, and to see it unanimously adopted at first reading on 18 February. This parliamentary work continues with the consideration of Senator Annick Billon's bill. The Government has chosen this legislative vehicle, which we, on the occasion of its first reading on 15 March, have enriched with our collective work – including the proposals made by Ms.Louis as rapporteur – and the contributions of the Government, in order to arrive at the text presented today after its second reading by the Senate. In essence, this text is a co-construction of Parliament, which I welcome. I would also like to thank Senators Billon, Meunier and Rossignol, as well as the senators and MPs who have mobilized throughout this period, including the rapporteur, and the members of the Government here. This text, as we know, is very much expected. But we must remember that a law is never retroactive: today we are writing the law for tomorrow. If we take a first step, much remains to be done to better protect children, including by improving prevention for early identification, strengthening professional training and adapting communication to the general public. Is it necessary to recall the figures in order to measure what is being discussed here? 10% of the French would have suffered the incest. A child is raped every hour in France. One in five Frenchmen was reported to have suffered an act of child criminality. 65 per cent of the perpetrators of rape of minors are under 24 years of age. One in six women did not consent to their first sexual relationship – and in one third of cases she was under the age of 15. The text on which we are working is undeniably a source of progress. However, the legislative framework resulting from the reform proposed at second reading will remain, let us not hide it, difficult to apply because of its complexity and the superimposition of the different legal regimes which it introduces according to the situation. It will therefore be necessary, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, to accompany the text of training for professionals – investigators and magistrates – in order to ensure its proper application in the courts. I would like to stress one point that is being debated: the age gap of five years. This provision must be deleted or amended, as it undermines the protection of minors aged 13 or 14, who are particularly vulnerable, and is therefore contrary to the spirit of our work. As I mentioned in the Committee on Laws, I have studied the legal framework in force in other European countries. Austria sets a non-consent threshold at 14 years and tolerates a three-year age gap; Spain sets the threshold at 16 years, with no age difference, the magistrate simply looking at whether the author's age is close to that of the victim; Italy applies a threshold of 14 years and an age difference of 2 years; Sweden sets the threshold at 15 years of age, with a small age difference that can be taken into account; Switzerland applies a non-consent threshold of 16 years and an age difference of 3 years; Belgium, Germany and Portugal all set the threshold at 14 years, with no age difference; the United Kingdom applies a threshold of 16 years, with no age difference. As you can see, we would be the only country in Europe with a five-year age gap. That is why, if I hear the arguments that are opposed to me and if I share the wish of the seal keeper that we adopt a text that is consistent with that of the Senate, it is important to debate this issue. For our part, we tabled an amendment to reduce the age gap to three years, even though I was initially in favour of setting a consent threshold with no age difference. The challenge is to adopt a system that is consistent with those in other European legal systems. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] With regard to teenage love, I have every confidence in the judges' ability to appreciate whether or not to prosecute a young adult. Let's trust them! I therefore count on you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, for the amendment that I tabled to reduce the age gap to three years to be adopted. In any case, know that the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text, because it involves progress and that we are gathered here to work in the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u42	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u43	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for the quality of the discussions we have had throughout the review of this text, as well as to the two members of the Government present on the bench, who have actively contributed to the successful conclusion of this bill. We have a second reading debate on a bill to protect minors from sexual crimes and incest. I will not repeat this time the horrific figures attesting to the tragedy affecting many children in France: these figures are terrifying. Criminal policy, but also, in general, public policies, must provide answers. Beyond this bill, which is essential to equip the judicial system with the necessary legal tools, we need to raise awareness, train and prevent such violence. While we must of course free the word and better understand the mechanisms at work, beyond that, society as a whole must take full advantage of this common struggle. The media must help us, talk about it, alert and raise awareness. Let us remember, if it were necessary, that we are certainly about to make a small legal revolution through this bill, but that we are only legislators. Our role is to improve the law, but we will not be able to control this scourge alone: it is up to society as a whole to carry out this fight. The purpose of this bill is to establish clear prohibitions and to strengthen the criminal legislation to protect minors who are victims of sexual violence, first by creating the crime of rape on a minor of 15 years of age, punishable by 20 years' imprisonment, as well as the crime of incestuous rape on a minor under 18 years of age, which will be described as incest. This bill also introduces the offence of sexual assault on minors under 15 years of age, punishable by 10 years' imprisonment and a fine of 150000 euros, as well as the offence of incestuous sexual assault on minors under 18 years of age. Contrary to the current situation, judges will no longer have to establish violence, coercion, threat or surprise to detect and punish rape or sexual assault. The question of the child's consent will therefore no longer arise below the age of 15 years – and 18 years in incest cases. Teenage loves are not covered, since a clause called Romeo and Juliet preserves such sexual relations when the minor and the adult are less than five years of age apart, e.g. a minor of 14 years of age and a young adult of 18 years of age. This clause will of course not apply in the case of an unconsented relationship and will also be ruled out in the case of a tariffed relationship, particularly in the case of prostitution. The text, as amended, also supplements the definition of rape by mentioning oral acts and extends the scope of incest to the great uncles and great aunts. This bill also introduces a principle of slippery prescription. The period may be extended if the same person subsequently rapes or sexually assaults another child, until the statute of limitations of the new offence. Also with regard to the statute of limitations, and in order to encourage persons who are aware of violence committed against a child to report it, the statute of limitations for the offence of non-denunciation of abuse is extended. As you know, the Group of the European People's Party has been fighting since the beginning of the debate on this point. We are pleased to note that this period is extended to 10 years from the majority of the victim in case of sexual assault or assault and to 20 years from the majority of the victim in case of rape, instead of six years from the current offence. I then welcome the amendment adopted by our House, which, in response to a strong demand from the field and in order to combat the phenomenon of "sextorsion", creates a crime punishable by ten years' imprisonment, which punishes the fact that an adult is inciting a child under the age of 15 to engage in sexual practices on the Internet. Finally, a provision adopted by the Senate provides for the automatic registration of perpetrators of sexual offences, regardless of the penalty incurred, when the victim is a minor, in the automated judicial file of perpetrators of sexual or violent assaults. Judicial records are formidable preventive tools that need to be addressed, particularly in the fight against sexual violence against minors. [[Applause on the banks of the groupAgirens, on some of the banks of the groupsLaRemetDem.–Mr.François-MichelLambertapplauditedalso]] This bill deals with many issues. The five minutes given to me are not enough to evoke them all. The Working Together Group will, in any case, meet, with humility and determination, to vote on this bill and thus improve the protection of these innocent people in danger, those children who guarantee the continuity of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u44	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u45	Before 15 years, it's no. Mr Minister, you have told us that our debates today should not complicate the input of a text that has been the subject of important work during the parliamentary shuttle and that is making undeniable and historic progress – as you yourself have described it – in the fight against sexual violence against minors. If we were to retain only one of these advances, it would be the fact that in criminal law, consent cannot now be mentioned until the age of 15 years in a sexual relationship between an adult and a minor. You recalled, like many of our colleagues, the quality of the parliamentary work that was conducted by Members from almost every bench in this House. In this regard, we welcome the work done by our rapporteur, Alexandra Louis, Isabelle Santiago, Annick Billon, the senator behind the bill that now serves as a legislative vehicle, and by many other parliamentarians who have long been involved in these issues of protection of minors, children, adolescents, vulnerable people who may be victims of sexual predators. We are, of course, legislating in a context marked by different cases, by the release of the words of several victims – about sometimes old facts – and by the work of many child protection associations. This shows that our society has evolved and now considers these acts to be perfectly unacceptable and heinous – if it has ever considered them acceptable. Yesterday, no doubt, things were not said, or said less, leading to a form of societal omerta about acts that are not only criminal, but mark for life, especially when the victim has suffered them young or even very young. The text has been enriched since it deals in particular – another major step – with the issue of incest, which was not included in the original bill. It introduces the concept of a slippery statute of limitations, on which I will return, and provides for a strengthening of the penal legislation to better combat prostitution against certain minors and against cyberpedocriminality. You recalled, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that the guarantees of proportionality had to be found, in particular in order to ensure the conformity of this text with our constitutional law. This means that with regard to certain subjects, we are on a ridge line. I come to the introduction of the notions of age difference and slippery prescription. We collectively share the objectives pursued through these two measures, that is to say, to ensure proportionality, not to be censors of adolescent sexuality and to allow persons who, at present, can only be heard as witnesses of morality, but never as victims, to be condemned for the acts they have suffered. Nevertheless, the age gap condition opens a breach in the absolute principle that before the age of 15 it is no. It has yet to be debated, not here by way of amendments, but in the context of collective reflection, in order to know how it can be applied by the judiciary. Similarly, we do not yet know how the extension of the limitation period will be applied in practice – which some may find excessive. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] In any event, members of the IDU and independent group will join this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u46	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u47	Olivier Duhamel acknowledged the incestuous rape charges against him. A large citizen mobilization movement to end this taboo is at the root of our collective journey. The agreement reached between the two assemblies shows that Parliament is able to stand up and transcend political divisions when the cause is serious and the protection of children is at stake. Several bills have been debated on this subject in recent months. Many things have already been said in the Chamber. But let us not forget: almost 7 million French people say they have been victims of incest, i.e. one in ten people, one in ten MPs, some sixty of us. Nearly half of the victims of rape during childhood are reported to have already attempted suicide; That is to say, how difficult it is to live with this trauma. Many victims are suffering from post-traumatic stress. These difficulties affect their emotional, sexual, and relational lives. Traumatic amnesia, which brings back memories of violence to the surface decades later, is particularly painful. Even today, in most cases, the culprits are not punished. It is not easy for victims to file a complaint. Trauma, fear of not being heard, or the fact that in the majority of cases the culprit is a relative, is there, right next door, are all obstacles that make it possible to understand why only one in seven victims would file a complaint. These complaints must be resolved. Today, however, three complaints of rape out of four – consider yourself – are closed without further action, most often due to insufficiently characterized elements. This text will improve the existing law to meet this challenge. We welcome its main measures. The introduction of a minimum age for non-consent at 15 years, similar to what exists in several European countries, thus put an end to a French legal anomaly. We welcome this: we are particularly pleased with the consensus that prevails on this issue. The extension of the threshold to 18 years in the event of incest and the new characterization of sexual assault are all positive elements that will strengthen our right. The additions made in the National Assembly, and reaffirmed in the Senate, concerning the fight against "sextorsion" and the prostitution of minors, are advances in which we try to provide answers to dramatic problems. Online sexual blackmail has become a real scourge, especially for our youth. On the issue of prescription, we find the proposed wording satisfactory. The slippery statute of limitations, which allows the limitation period for the first crime to be extended until the end of the limitation period for the second crime or any new crime in case of recidivism, is more relevant than the imprescriptibility, which must be reserved for crimes against humanity. A final debate, however, is still shaking our assembly around the so-called Romeo and Juliet clause – a formula that I find unbearable given the seriousness of the subject – which creates a five-year age gap. If we understand the argument that it is necessary to avoid criminalising teenage love, the Libertés et territoires group has no common position on this issue. Several of its members, opposed to this measure, were in favour of reducing the age gap to three, as proposed by an amendment tabled by Isabelle Santiago. In many situations that are reported to us, minors of 13 or 14 years of age – they are very often girls – find themselves under the total psychological influence of young adults who manipulate them. These underage girls also need to be protected from young adults. In addition, this measure could undermine the clarity of the law. In the end, our group will of course vote on this bill, as – I hope and do not doubt – the whole of our House, as it represents a real step forward for all the victims. However, it should not be forgotten that if this law is necessary, the real transformation will come from changing attitudes, mobilizing citizens and massive prevention policies. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The scourge of sexual violence, especially incestuous, during childhood must no longer be a taboo. We have to eradicate him from our society. Let us never forget: one Frenchman or one in ten Frenchmen has suffered the incest and lives with it forever. This is the new field of action that we must take to put an end to this tragedy and for our society to heal from this injury. Minister, Secretary of State, it is up to you to hire him without delay for our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u48	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u49	It should be recalled again and again: children are the main victims of sexual violence; Every year, Minister, 130,000 girls and 35,000 boys are raped or attempted rape, in addition to 94,000 women and 16,000 men, and 80% of all such violence begins before the victim is 18 years of age, 51% before her 11 years of age and 21% before her 6 years of age. Society and its institutions are still too often lacking in their duty to protect and prevent such violence, resisting to recognize their systemic character, failing to adequately accompany the victims so that they can obtain justice and redress. It was only under pressure from victims' associations and their citizens' supporters that a beginning of awareness began to emerge. But there is still a long way to go. While the Schiappa law of 2018 was, from our point of view and from the point of view of many associations, a missed opportunity to make significant progress on this path, our colleague Santiago's bill, voted in this Chamber on 18 February, marked a significant step with the creation of an autonomous offence for sexual violence committed by a person of age on a minor of 15 years of age, or on a minor of 18 years of age in case of incest. The proposal for a law of the Centralist Union in the Senate, of the IUD-I and of LaREM here, which we are considering at second reading today, resumes this mechanism by reformulating it: it is a late development, but welcome, from the majority. As it stands, however, this text remains unsatisfactory in several respects. I will highlight two of them. The first is the age gap of five years. Associations, independent and professional commissions on the law have been warning about this for several weeks: introduced in the text at first reading in the Assembly, this age difference of at least five years between the adult and the minor in order to qualify the offence weakens de facto the protection of young persons under the age of 13 or 14, since it requires the use of the material criteria of characterization of rape. The adoption of this very term creates two offences: simple rape with aggravating circumstances due to the victim's minority and rape on a minor of 15 years of age if there is at least five years' gap, which may lead to disparities in case law. The fundamental problem stems from the definition of rape law, because it is not based on the absence of consent but on a methodology that must be applied by the judiciary, namely, whether there has been violence, threat, coercion or surprise. In order to combat the culture of rape and prevent it, it was necessary to build a culture of consent and automatic non-consent of minors under the age of 15. Consent is a concept that should be at the centre of all the relevant provisions, starting with the provision that would provide a clear and unambiguous definition of the offence. As Judge Christian Guéry states, "it is time that, in accordance with European directives, French law states that rape is a sexual act committed in the absence of free and informed consent. Last year, Denmark amended its penal code to finally recognize this reality; It is the twelfth country in Europe in this case. Others, such as Spain or the Netherlands, have announced draft legislation to this effect. Why not France? The La France Group regrets that its amendment on the subject, after having been rejected, was this time declared inadmissible. The second major issue of dissatisfaction is the means of prevention. Although new means have been announced several times, they are still insufficient, in any case with regard to advertisements. In addition to the constant deficit in the reception and medical, social and legal support of victims, both children and adults, we deplore the fact that most of the legislative and governmental action is ex post facto, which is at least contradictory, in particular in a text aimed at protecting minors from sexual crimes, and thus at acting upstream. However, the chronic lack of resources to effectively combat such violence is well known. This ranges from training professionals – teachers, doctors, educators, as well as police, lawyers, psychologists and assistants – to taking into account the fundamental issue of education, which should intervene very early to train children to respect the integrity of their bodies and to the existence of their rights. We had tabled an amendment to know – since it is our responsibility as parliamentarians and that in this matter, more than on other matters, we cannot afford words and simply advertise: human, material and financial stewardship must follow and be commensurate with the immense damage – the amount and detail of the budgets devoted to the protection of children from sexual violence. This amendment was found inadmissible. That's where the bastard hurts, and cruelly. It is the mobilizations of victims and associations, supported by the constant commitment of professionals, that have made it possible to reopen the debate in Parliament since 2018. Our Assembly must not miss the only remaining opportunity in this Parliament to make significant progress in the fight against violence against children. Our determination, in France, is still intact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u50	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u51	We are just a few steps away from the completion of a text which, like Mr. Keeper of the Seals, can be described as a historical text for children's rights. This bill has made major progress between its first reading in the Senate and its second reading in the National Assembly today. I want to pay tribute here to the Members who, on all the benches, have mobilized to bring it to an end. Since the beginning of our work, we have included new legal thresholds for the protection of minors who are victims of sexual offences or crimes. We came together to say that under the age of 15, a minor cannot consent to sexual intercourse with an adult. We have also taken an important step in recognizing incestuous relationships as crimes or offences in their own right: the text states that there can be no consent to any sexual act, whatever its nature, between a child and a parent. It's a non-firm. We owe these advances to the victims who have spoken, each with his own words, sometimes after the necessary time; We owe them to the victims and to all the associations that are fighting with them for justice to be done and for guilt to change sides. However, we can still work to ensure that this text is as protective as possible. If we all agree here with the meaning and content, improvements are still possible. Thus, the so-called Romeo and Juliet clause is a source of debate, as it opens a gap in the protection of minors aged 13 and 14 against young adults. Similarly, the law still falls short of other aspects of the protection of minors. In November 2019, I was already robbing the Minister of the Interior on the increasingly important scourge of child prostitution. Childhood and adolescence are fragile periods of construction: only minors, boys or girls, can be admitted to prostitution because of their isolation or their fragility. A determined action by all actors – and I know, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are attached to it – against this tragedy is necessary in terms of prevention and repression. On the other hand, the consent of minors with disabilities is an issue that our debates have failed to make sufficient progress, and I regret it all the more because there are many victims. I hope that parliamentarians can be involved in the work of the Government on this issue, so that we can work quickly on further measures. My colleague Karine Lebon, who has participated in all the debates but is detained in Réunion, suffering from the other epidemic, that of dengue, would have wished to raise before you the situation on her territory with regard to incest and sexual violence against minors. Indeed, not to talk about it in these debates would be to add an official silence to the silence surrounding this reality to the point of becoming one of its markers. To the shame and guilt of the victims is added everywhere the taboo due to the fear of stigmatization, but also to the pressures of the family environment. Incest is often part of secrecy and indescribableness; Incest and silence, this terrifying cocktail feeds, from generation to generation, the self-censorship of the victims. In these circumstances, it is not surprising that there is little accurate data. According to some associations, sexual violence against children and incest is a widespread scourge, and even a real public health problem. A complaint is filed every two days for acts of sexual assault on children and, in one class, there are two to three children who are victims of violence, sexual assault or incestuous rape. Another indication is given by the sitting sessions: few are those who do not have to try several cases of incest. In view of this picture, my colleague stresses the urgent need to look at the reality of this phenomenon in order to understand the mechanisms of what some authors have called "the incestuous tragedy of La Réunion". Can we know when and how the independent commission on incest and sexual violence against children, recently established by the Government, will expand its mission to the overseas? More than in other areas, it is important that the public response be drawn up on the basis of the actual situation, as this is the condition that a suitable prevention programme for children can be defined, where the linguistic aspect will be taken into account, the key messages speaking really to society and the training of professionals who are more likely to be effective. Mr Secretary of State, you are advocating the opening of an era of prevention: my colleague and the associations want La Réunion to be chosen as a pilot territory for the actions that will materialize this new era. [[Applause on the banks of the GDR and SOC groups, some of the banks of the LaREMetDem groups]] The GDR Group will vote on this law, with the intention of continuing the fight for children's rights. He fervently hopes that this law will be passed unanimously by our assembly: it would be the strongest sign that we could send to those who abuse children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u52	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u53	The text we are examining today at second reading reflects the commitment made in both chambers to victims and associations: to listen finally to those who dared yesterday, or will dare tomorrow, to denounce the wounds of their stolen minority. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the very high quality work of our rapporteur Alexandra Louis and her ongoing commitment on these issues, as well as that of Senator Annick Billon and our colleague Isabelle Santiago, who are able to lift the veil on a taboo, on a reality difficult to accept: sexual violence, often confidential, suffered by mutic minors. More than one in ten French citizens were reported to have been victims and more than three in ten were reported to have been victims. I welcome in this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen, our constructive discussions in committee and in the sitting, and thank you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, for these discussions which we have conducted in confidence in order to reach this historic text. Historically, it provides in a clear and intelligible way that no respite will be granted to anyone who physically and morally harms our children. Historically, it gives the minority an autonomous place in criminal law. The fact, for a major, of having a sexual relationship of any kind and by any means whatsoever, with a minor will no longer be merely an aggravating circumstance in the event of an offence: it is clearly prohibited. Sexual abuse of minors will now each have its own criminality; These autonomous and independent criminalizations should help to break the last chains of fear and shame that prevent these victims from speaking about the facts they have suffered. The criminalization of incest first of all: the characterization now specific to this crime poses words about the most intimate ills of a minority damaged by a familiar author, and without threshold or age difference, because it recognizes the seriousness of the breach of violence and the breakdown of the bond of trust with that parent, an ally that should have protected. The criminalization of rape or sexual assault against minors aged 15 years later: the qualifications of this crime and of this offence, totally untied from ordinary offences, reaffirm the particular vulnerability of the minor. This minority, today an aggravating circumstance, will tomorrow alone qualify the crime or the crime. It was equally important that this bill be a guarantor of teenage love. I believe that we have found the right balance in our debates in committee and in the sitting with the introduction of the age gap of five, including, I must say, with regard to sexual abuse, after a constructive debate led by colleagues of our majority – I would like to pay tribute to the work of our colleague Pacôme Rupin. However, I would like to point out that acts which are not prosecuted under the heading of new incriminations against minors under the age of 15 may still be prosecuted under the heading of rape or sexual assault under the ordinary law. I will also go back to other key developments in this text, starting with the new qualifications for prostitution of minors – I would like to stress again the commitment of our colleagues Mustapha Laabid and Ludovic Mendes on this subject. Also included are the clarifications made by senators explicitly excluding any age difference when the sexual act is committed in exchange for remuneration or a promise of remuneration, the provision of an advantage in kind or the promise of such an advantage. And then there is the creation of the crime of "sextorsion", which is the result of the remarkable work of our colleague Laetitia Avia, and whose Senate has wished it to concern all minors, not only those of 15 years of age, which leads to the graduation of the scale of penalties incurred. With regard to the so-called slippery prescription, the upper chamber has not made any changes to the provisions voted on, which meet a major expectation of associations and victims. They may therefore have a statute of limitations extended by that of a new offence committed by the author against another minor of 15 years of age. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will conclude my remarks by thanking you again, Mr.Beard of Seals, for your commitment and the concern for cooperation that you have shown during your readings in the National Assembly and in the Senate with a view to reaching an ambitious text and, as has been said, historic for all the victims who were waiting for the legislator to lift their fears of not being heard, understood and believed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u54	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u55	This bill marks a real turning point in the protection of children who are victims of sexual violence: it establishes an age limit below which any sexual act between a person of age and a child under the age of 15 will be presumed to be coerced; it raises the age limit to 18 years for cases of incest, thus allowing their specificity and severity to be taken into account; from three to five years of imprisonment when a person of age resorts to the prostitution of a child; Finally, it introduces the slippery statute of limitations which allows the limitation period to be interrupted in the event of the same crime being committed by the same perpetrator against other children. We are at a pivotal moment in the fight against impunity for such violence. The victims have always spoken. They did it again, but together, around the hashtag # MeTooIncesse. This time, society not only listens to them, but recognizes its responsibility for the trivialization of such violence. More than ever, we act as fervent representatives of society and it is a great collective victory. However, the associations of victims, the specialized institutions alert us to the limits of our work: the association Face à l'inceste, the collective Save the children!, the Collectif pour l'enfance, the High Council for Equality between Women and Men – HCE – or the newly established independent commission on incest and sexual violence against children – CIIVISE – all express their concerns on two particular points. First, the Romeo and Juliet clause, which provides for an exception to the age limit when the adult and the minor are less than five years apart, does not, as such, fully recognize the asymmetry of the relationship between the adult and the child. Therefore, HCE and CIIVISE recommend that this age gap be reduced to at least four years in order to signify the very clear prohibition of any sexual act by a person of age, regardless of age, on a minor of 13 years of age. I will defend an amendment to that effect. The second alert concerns the requirement of de jure or de facto authority in certain cases of incest, which does not allow sufficient consideration to be given to the asymmetrical nature of the relationship between a major and the child. I will propose that it be deleted by way of an amendment. [[Applause on several banks in the LaRem,DemetAgirens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are so close to the goal. For too long, we, like others, have closed our eyes to the extent of this violence, but also to the inadequacies of our right to protect our children effectively. Let us make this text a real step forward for the protection of all children who are victims of sexual violence, and let us prove to those who look at us, by voting unanimously again, that the fight against sexual violence against children deserves better than political divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u56	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u57	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u58	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u59	I would like to express some reservations about the so-called Romeo and Juliet clause, which introduces an exception to the age difference rule of five years. I was, no doubt like many of us, very much asked about this. Of course, I understand the argument that there is a need to avoid criminalizing the love of the youngest. However, many situations have been reported where minors aged 13 or 14 are under the psychological influence of young adults who can manipulate them. Such minors must obviously be protected. In any case, we are moving forward on the whole text. I want to launch an unambiguous message, which is shared on every bench: under the age of 15, a minor will not consent to sexual intercourse with an adult.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u60	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u61	I would like to support all the amendments aimed at returning to the issue of the age gap,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u62	That's crazy, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u63	... as well as those relating to the question of the authority of the adult over the minor. We have talked a lot about the famous Romeo and Juliet clause, all the more problematic because it relates to teenage love, because it has nothing to do with sauerkraut, if I may say so. It's not about love, it's about sexual violence between young adults and teenagers: it's important not to mix the two. When rape is penalized, love between consenting adults is not penalized, but sexual violence. That is precisely what this is about. It is important to recall the figures made public by the associations: one in six women indicated that they had not consented to their first sexual intercourse, and for one third this sexual intercourse took place when they were under the age of 15. When we discuss this issue, we talk about violence and not about love or consented relationships.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u64	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u65	Protecting minors from sexual crimes and crimes and incest is a requirement, a duty in our society, as minor victims have been left behind and sometimes ignored for too long years. For example, the latest statistics from the Ministry of Justice indicate that out of a total of 42,000 victims of sexual violence recorded in 2016, 62 per cent were minor at the time of the incident and 46 per cent were under the age of 15. In addition, an Ipsos survey conducted in 2019 among 502 French citizens aged 18 and over who had been victims of rape and sexual assault in childhood showed that 44 per cent of situations of sexual violence against children were incestuous. I would just like to stress this, because it seems to me that we may have missed something in the drafting of the text, which does not cover the most common cases of sexual violence. Indeed, articles relating to incestuous acts only apply to major authors. However, minor criminals are far from representing isolated cases and their numbers are constantly increasing. If we do not amend articles 222-23-2 and 222-29-3 of the Criminal Code by explicitly targeting the major or minor author of the incest, the victims of incestous relations whose author is a minor mentioned in these two articles will once again have to prove that they were not consenting. That is precisely what we wish to avoid: there is no question of taking refuge behind exceptions, such as the author's minority, thus saving a category of rapists and sexual abusers. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Keeper of the Seals, during the general discussion, I heard your explanations and your willingness to adopt the correct text in order to move forward quickly. You are right, because it represents real progress in relation to the existing law. I shall therefore vote as it stands. I would, however, do so with even more enthusiasm if you were to accept my amendments, which are intended solely to make the bill more protective for our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u66	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u67	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2 and 22. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u68	Article 1 states that rape and sexual assault are classified as incestuous when committed by certain members of the family unit. Today, this family unit has multiple forms, such as the recomposed family. Rape and sexual assault committed by a half-brother or a half-sister against a minor under the age of 18 should therefore also be punished. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to amend paragraph 7 to that effect by inserting after the word "sister" the words "a half-brother, a half-sister".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u69	Amendment No 22 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u70	You propose to add half-brothers and half-sisters. I think I can reassure you: when the text mentions brothers and sisters, it includes half-brothers and half-sisters. While it is true that it has been forgotten in everyday language, this is not the case with legal language: positive law today takes half-brothers and half-sisters into account. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u71	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u72	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u73	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mrs Beauvais?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u74	I trust you, I take it out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u75	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u76	It simply aims to broaden the concept of family, including cousins. In French law, consanguin marriages are prohibited, while marriages between distant or first cousins are allowed, as they are not part of the close family. However, to quote Tolstoy, if "Happy families are all alike, unhappy families are each in their own way," and no family is alike. Some families, regardless of the social environment to which they belong, are very large; cousinades are a reality, they reproduce each year and the cousin is an integral part of the family. With this amendment, I simply want to question the definition of the family, and therefore the definition of incest. Is the author someone who belongs to the extended family, or simply to the conventional nuclear family, namely the father, mother and siblings?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u78	I would like to welcome your commitment on this subject, dear colleague. However, I invite you to withdraw your amendment. As I explained during the first reading of the text, it would drop our device. In addition, you add cousins without specifying the degree of proximity. However, as generations progress, we are all cousins to each other. I suppose you're actually targeting the first cousins, but you didn't say that in your amendment. There would therefore be a high risk of unconstitutionality. Indeed, the Constitutional Council has already made a decision censoring a definition of incest that was not sufficiently precise. Don't take that risk. Moreover, a commission is working on incest and they are particularly interested in this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u79	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u80	For the same reasons as those just mentioned by the rapporteur, I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Indeed, work is under way. You have objectively shared the different situations that can be encountered within families, especially cousins – that is, I believe, the word you have used. In this respect, we must be careful. Furthermore, the amendment presents risks, as the rapporteur pointed out, since it does not specify what level is being targeted. We would obviously go ahead with censorship, because the law, and above all the criminal law, must always be particularly precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u81	Mrs Chapelier, is the amendment retained or withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u82	Of course, I will remove it, because the current mission must precisely define the perimeter of the incest. It was an appeal amendment. It was important to address the topic during the second reading of the text. Indeed, we all have examples of cousin incest around us, and the law does not provide anything about it. So I wanted to alert you on this issue. The lack of precision regarding the status of first cousins or distant cousins was intentional, because I know that as it is, you could not abound in my view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u83	On Amendment No 27, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u84	It is intended to include, in paragraph 11, the words "or a minor" after the first occurrence of the word "major", in order to provide for both situations: rape of a minor under the age of 15, whether committed by a major or a minor, must be punished. France rightly does not provide for a minimum age of criminal responsibility and a minor who commits rape or sexual assault would not be less responsible for his act than a major,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u85	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u86	...even if, of course, the penalties would be different and less for a minor. I repeat, it seems to me important to add the words "or a minor", so that the text provides for all possibilities of rape on minors under the age of 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u88	I do not hope to convince you, Mrs Ménard, on this subject, even if you defend your point of view with great fervour. First of all, one fundamental point is that a minor who commits rape is obviously subject to criminal procedure and criminal punishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u89	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u90	What you propose would be a systematic criminalization of sexual relations between minors if one of them is under the age of 15. In the event of a rape committed by a minor against another minor under the age of 15, the two persons concerned would be held in police custody, judicial information would be opened against both of them and, in the end, both would be sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment. I understand that this is not your will – at least I hope – and that is why I invite you to withdraw your amendment. I would like to make it clear that the main objective of the bill is to protect children from sexual assault by adults. We see the imbalance that exists in the case of a relationship between a minor and a major: the latter is much older and can exercise an ascendant. That is the spirit of the device we are looking at. To want to go too far, I fear that we will be able to take advantage of particularly problematic situations, such as the penalisation of the relations agreed between adolescents to which the adoption of your amendment would lead. If so, there would have to be a very large number of sitting court hearings and I do not know how we would do that. And most importantly, things would be very detrimental to teenagers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u91	Very sad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u93	Mrs Ménard, this is all very excessive! Two 15- and 16-year-olds who were in prison for 20 years because of consented love, is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u94	Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u95	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u96	I believe that since we discussed this issue, we do not understand each other. The arguments cannot be of varying geometry: we are talking about rape, not about a consensual love relationship. That's the whole problem. Therefore, it is the question of our level of confidence in justice that arises. If false accusations are brought against a minor, I hope – without doubt – that the judge will be able to unravel the true of the false. It cannot be denied that, in practice, minors may commit sexual assault and rape on other minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u97	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u98	Therefore, why not provide for the punishment of this type of act in the text? Of course, there has never been any question of penalizing or even sanctioning amicable relationships between minors in any way. It is indeed rape referred to in paragraph 11, the wording of which speaks for itself: "... also constitutes rape any act of sexual penetration...".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u99	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u100	I would like to make a very important point: there are several definitions of rape. Under the current legal definition, which we know and which applies equally to adults and minors, efforts are being made to seek consent. Thus, a minor who commits rape against another minor would be subject to a criminal penalty – let it be said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u102	Under the new offence created by the text, consent will no longer be given to persons under 15 years of age: this element will be avoided. The magistrate will therefore have his hands tied and will not be able to seek the existence of consent. The law will not allow him to do so, and it is clear that he will not be able to escape this obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u103	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u104	A minor who rapes is punished, whether he has raped another minor or, let's say, a major. What are we trying to achieve with this text? That an adult cannot claim that the minor under the age of 15 with whom he had sexual intercourse was consenting. The act in question is rape; It's no more complicated than that. But if you replace the word "major" with the word "minor"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u105	I'm not replacing, I'm adding!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u106	Whatever. What your amendment says is that a sexual relationship between a minor and another 15-year-old is a rape. It's a monstrosity! As I said earlier, if your amendment is adopted, a relationship, even if agreed, between a 16-year-old and a 15-year-old would be considered a crime punishable by 20 years' imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u107	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u108	Yes, that's what your amendment says!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u109	Frankly, we cannot let your amendment prosper! I insist: tomorrow, once the law is promulgated – after you have passed it unanimously, I hope – a major who will have a sexual relationship with a 14-year-old will no longer be able to say that he or she agreed. We have heard this kind of phrase so often in the courts... It'll be rape now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u110	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u111	But if it was with another minor, let's say 16 years old, that the 14-year-old had a sexual relationship, then it could be a consensual sexual relationship between teenagers, contrary to what your amendment says. Would it simply be fair to punish them with 20 years in prison? Moreover, because some have played a great part in this ambivalence, especially in the media, your amendment does not tend to fill a legal vacuum. I repeat, a minor who rapes will be punished. The alternative is not condemnation or impunity; That's not how things work. We are introducing a new definition of rape and, in this respect, the rapporteur is right to say that certain elements must be considered in their new singularity. But the automatic punishment of minors on the ground that one of them was 14 years old at the time of a consented sexual relationship, I beg your pardon, that is not possible! What we say in the text, clearly, clearly and precisely, is that no adult will be able to say that the child under the age of 15 with whom he or she had a sexual relationship agreed. I repeat, this is one of the great historical advances of this text: let us not spoil it! I have great respect for your work, Mrs Ménard, but let me tell you that your amendment makes no sense. Again, a 16-year-old who has a consented sexual relationship with another 14-and-a-half-year-old cannot be considered a rapist. And, since you raise the issue, a minor who has sexual intercourse through threat, coercion or surprise with another minor under the age of 15 would be prosecuted for rape and tried on this charge before the competent juvenile court. That is very clear, and I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u112	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u113	We all recognize your great seriousness and your work, Madame Ménard; But as the rapporteur and the minister have just said, I fear that I have not understood what this article provides for. Under your amendment, a sexual relationship between a minor and another minor under the age of 15 would automatically be considered rape. We understand what you have in mind, but it is the very wording of your amendment that poses a problem. Added to the article as you propose, the words "or a minor" would criminalize agreed relations between minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u114	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 6 and 24. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u115	I do not have much hope that this amendment will be adopted and I will be brief, because we have already discussed it many times – on this point, you have not yet convinced me. It is intended to delete the end of paragraph 11, because if it is possible that I do not understand the text – I do not have infuse science – I believe that fixing an age gap is likely to blur the clear message that you have just recalled, Minister, that you are not entitled to touch a child under the age of 15. I understand that it is necessary to preserve the relationship between teenagers and that this is the famous Romeo and Juliet clause – although the connection with the play seems quite distant to me – but this age gap of five does not seem appropriate to me. It was recalled in the general discussion that this age gap does not exist in all countries, is sometimes less important than the one envisaged here and, in any event, seems to me to be detrimental to the clarity of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u116	Mr Fabien Di Filippo's amendment No 24 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u117	Ms. Ménard raised the issue of the age gap, which was the most talked about. Much to mention this subject, it is forgotten that this text represents, as has been said and repeated, a historic step forward. It should be recalled that the issue of the age limit for non-consent is not new: it is a subject that has been discussed for a very long time. In this regard, we must not blame our predecessors for not having introduced this age limit, because it is a highly complex legal and societal issue – we must have it in mind. Our responsibility, as legislators, is to arrive at a text in accordance with the Constitution – it is obvious – but above all that is fair. And for that, we need to anticipate all the practical repercussions of the provisions that we are adopting. Whenever the age limit was mentioned during the hearings of lawyers in which I participated, a lot of reluctance was expressed. Since the beginning of my work on this text, I have not met many lawyers to tell me that setting an age limit at 15 would not be a problem and that we could establish it calmly. This idea is wrong. Nevertheless, all the judges, lawyers and lawyers with whom I spoke were of good will and wanted, like all of us, to protect the children. The opinion of the Council of State on the bill to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence against minors and adults, published in 2018, also warns us by not expressing reservations, but objections to the age limit, in the name of teenage lovers. This threshold is not a blush of the minister or Members of Parliament, but a real issue, on which the viability of the text depends. Thus, in the course of the preparatory work for the discussion of the text, we were told that a threshold of 15 years of age which would not be accompanied by exceptions would not work. If our honourable senators had chosen to set this threshold at 13 years, it was not because they wanted to protect us less than the 15-year-olds, but simply because they feared that the Constitutional Council would be censored on that point. We all wondered and tried to make the difference between consented teenage love and non-accepted sex. That's what was at stake. Several solutions have been considered and the age gap has thus emerged. But I repeat, because it is important, that of all the jurists we have heard, none have assured that the measure would be in conformity with the Constitution if exceptions were not made. I am certain of that myself, even though I hear that some people do not think so. There is also a need to think about practice. Teenage loves exist. We may regret that, but they do exist and we must take them into account. As for those who argue that they are exceptions, I would like to say that I am not convinced of them. According to the interviews I conducted, they even seem to me to be frequent. And even though these loves would be exceptions, even though there would ultimately be only one minor who would find himself wrongfully prosecuted for having had a sexual relationship with a 15-year-old minor and even if he would have every chance of being acquitted, it is not nothing but to undergo legal proceedings when one is innocent! It is also about the protection of the freedoms of these young adults who have done nothing about it. I stress this point because I have sometimes read, especially on social networks, that with this bill an 18- or 19-year-old rapist would be able to escape. No! The 18- or 19-year-old rapist will be prosecuted under the law that strengthens the fight against sexual and gender-based violence that we voted in 2018 and that we deepen with this text. There is no legal vacuum. What we want to protect, because it is also the role of criminal law to guarantee individual freedoms, is the love consented. If they are not, if there is grip, alcoholization of the victim, violence or coercion – there are a thousand possible configurations – the magistrates have the legal tools to prosecute the aggressor. I'm sorry if I'm long, but I think these things are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u118	They are, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u119	I conclude by referring to one last argument, which I have also often heard. Invoking court decisions, some have told me that we need to go further in the legislation because we cannot trust the magistrates. I do not claim that our text will guarantee perfect justice – I am even convinced that none can. Justice is human, and that is why we have double courts and rules that guarantee the principle of adversariality. With this age gap of five, I think the Assembly and the Senate have found a balance; I say it all the more since it was not my position at the outset and I had proposed another form of exception, since it is constitutionally necessary. If we want a viable text, we must stick to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u120	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u121	I would like to reply to Mrs Ménard, but not just to her. We are all aware here of what rape can leave as traces in the mind of a young victim. The discovery of his body by break-in is an absolute tragedy, which undoubtedly allows the victims to claim ever more protection. I can hear it. However, I say this in the most solemn way: this age gap is first and foremost indispensable in law, so that the text you are about to vote on is not sanctioned by the Constitutional Council. This is the warning given by the Council of State, which the rapporteur has just recalled. Why? Because a crime can't be an irrefutable presumption. However, we go very far because we decide that a major will no longer be able to argue that a minor of 15 years of age is consenting. Therefore, constitutionally, we need this provision, which is something that some people do not like. Law is not an anecdote. Second, this age gap will be only in the context of consented teenage love. Some deny its existence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u122	Don't be caricatural, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u123	... but life is thus made that young men of 14 or 14 and a half years of age have consensual sexual relations with other minors. And the question is, what do we do with one of these two miners when he becomes a major? Can we criminalise him? [[Mrs. Danièle Obono protested]] At the rostrum, earlier, Ms.Obono refuted the idea of teenage love and invoked violence: but when it comes to violence, we are not in love, we are in rape! Beyond the differences that one can have, some things have been said or written in the media, greedy of these antagonisms, but which, obviously, disturb the victims, who come to no longer understand this text. Together with Adrien Taquet, we have received all the associations involved in these issues. It must be said that some did not agree with this age gap, others did. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono protested]] Should we still convince you that we are talking about situations that exist? We know that because we were teenagers and we have children. I refer you to Senator Annick Billon, who stated that she had received a number of letters from trained couples under the conditions on which we are currently debating and which have lasted for a long time. What are we saying to these people, to her who was 14 and he, 18 and a half years old?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u124	Or 19!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u125	That one of them was a criminal, Mrs. Ménard? I don't want to criminalise a teenager who's just a grown-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u126	No one wants it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u127	I don't want to be the censor of the consented love of our teenagers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u128	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u129	... knowing that there is no hole in the law because, if it is not about love, the oldest one obviously falls under repression. Some spoke of exception; It is a fair and necessary exception on the ground of constitutionality. So I hear that you do not agree with me, I respect it and I do not ask you to adhere to the substance of this measure, but this text has so many major advances that, if only for the benefit of the law, I ask you to understand that we will only be able to make it flourish if it involves this age gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u130	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u131	I have heard the arguments of the rapporteur and the minister and I will withdraw my amendment, although I am still not convinced. I hear the need to adopt this text in line today, because it represents progress. But without wanting to repeat the discussion, I consider that it does not go far enough, and I continue to defend the removal of this age gap measure. In some cases, 13 or 14 year olds may be impressed by a young adult with whom they feel they are willing to enter into a relationship, but ultimately experience things they would not have wanted to experience. We do not agree on that. I know there's what we call teenage love, but sometimes it's teenage love that doesn't exist and ends up under pressure – and I wish I could have avoided it. I mean that the text is progress, I mean that there is a risk of unconstitutionality if this exception is not included, but your arguments have not really convinced me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u132	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u133	Mrs Ménard, this is not in any way disparaging to you, but I know that these debates are followed by the victims, and it seems to me necessary to clarify the following: you indicate that a young woman or a young man can feel willing because they have been impressed; Nevertheless, you recognize the existence of teenage love; But you forget the judge, the judge who appreciates the situation, who distinguishes the right grain from the chalk and decides whether or not the relationship has been consented to. The judge is not a detail and, in the case of children or adolescents, it is known that he is particularly vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u134	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u135	I will withdraw it as I withdrew the previous one, since it was an amendment of consistency that no longer needs to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u136	I have before me two amendments, Nos 27 and 19, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u137	I have heard everything during the three months of our debates on the age gap. I have understood the opinion of the Council of State and the risks of unconstitutionality, and my position has changed, since I was not in favour of initially mentioning the age gap. [[Applause on the banks of the SOC group.–M. StéphanePeuapplaudit also]] In the light of European comparative law, if this provision were to be adopted, we would be the only country where a five-year age difference would be required in order to penalise a major. That is why, if possible, I propose to reduce this age gap to three years, in order to bring us closer to the rules in force in the other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u138	That doesn't make any sense, three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u139	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u140	My amendment is less ambitious than that of Mrs Santiago, which I will obviously support. I do not see the age gap as satisfactory if we do not want to find ourselves in situations where a young person would have sexual relations with a 13-year-old child. That is why I propose, following the High Council for Equality between Women and Men and the Committee on Sexual Violence against Children, an age gap of four years. Some Members spoke of the Romeo and Juliet clause. It is a very glamorous term, but sometimes hides sad realities. I think we should also pay attention to the terms we use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u142	Mrs Santiago, you indicate that France would be the only European country to allow minors to have relations with an adult under five years of age. That's not true, since sexual assault remains. Moreover, what we do is not comparable to what is happening in other countries. If you make comparisons, push them to the end. I refer you to the report I have produced on the Schiappa law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence: it contains a table in which a number of countries are listed, for which the quantum of sentences must also be taken into account. It turns out that France is one of the countries that has the most repressive and ambitious system for the protection of minors – it will be, in any case, once we have passed this law. In countries where the consent of minors is not taken into account, the penalties are ten years in Germany, Austria and Portugal, and twelve years in the Netherlands, while in France we apply a sentence of 20 years' imprisonment. We wish, however, to preserve teenage love on the understanding that, if there is coercion, threat or surprise, and there is a lack of consent, the perpetrator would obviously be punished. I will add a statistical argument. 3 per cent of minors would start their sexual life before 15 years of age. If this figure is correct, knowing that there are 700000 births in France every year, more than 20,000 young people – we are not in the thickness of the trait – would each year have such relationships, which do not always resemble rapes. Many colleagues have referred to the High Council's new opinion on equality, which surprises me as it emerged from all the hearings that I have been able to conduct until December last year that the High Council was defending the idea of a presumption of coercion for 13-year-olds – a measure which it considers, in its own words, to be in line with its fundamental principles and only to take explicit account of the asymmetry between the child and the adult. I understand that we can change our minds, but I would have liked it to be more legally substantiated. The High Council was warned of constitutional risks, and the Constitution has not changed since then.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u143	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u144	Unfavorable. Mrs Gaillot, you say that these stories sometimes cover a reality other than that of teenage love – that's pretty much what you've expressed. I can hear it. But if reality is not that of consented love, it falls under criminal law, and that is quite normal. I repeat: the age gap we are talking about is understood in the context of love, of consensual relationships between young people. That is the reality; If this is something else, relations naturally fall within the scope of the law, and that is legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u145	We are not going to reopen a long debate on the subject, since everyone's positions are very explicit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u146	Yes, we have another text to consider!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u147	I see many requests to speak, some of them in the same group; I ask you to harmonize yourself and I will take three or four of them, asking you to be short in your answers to Mr. the Keeper of the Seals and to the rapporteur. We will hear in order, Mr Terlier, Mrs Obono, Mr Castellani and Mrs Chapelier. Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u148	After consultation with my colleagues from the majority, I will take the floor to say that the moving Republic Group will not vote on the amendments. The terms of the debate were recalled by Mr Le Custody of Seals and by the rapporteur. As far as I'm concerned, I have a little misunderstanding. We are very much in favour of this new definition of rape, which applies to any act of penetration committed on a 15-year-old. But we say, basically, that this prohibition cannot be absolute. For the system to be constitutional, exceptions must be made. The keeper of the seals has just said that it was necessary and mandatory that the measure applies when the age difference between the partners is five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u149	I propose to reduce it to three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u150	In other words, Mrs Santiago, the adoption of your amendment could undermine the integrity of a device that you were the first to support. I must admit that I find it difficult to understand the hard work you have done in defending amendments four times, the vote of which would erase all the progress made in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u151	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u152	We will support these amendments. I would like to remind you that in 2018, even before the arrival of Mr. the Keeper of the Seals, we were numerous and numerous, on all benches, to debate the issue and to formulate proposals. The majority eventually gave up their objections to us in 2018, during the debates on the Schiappa law: they were ruled out because the associations that, although their inquiries continue to be somewhat scorned, continued to fuel the debate. I would like to see respect for the work of the Members who are engaged from the outset in this matter, but also that of those who have joined us and who have a very clear commitment on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u153	There's no disrespect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u154	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I did not say it in the gallery, but I said it on this bench: yes, I contest the mix of genres that justifies the age gap between partners on the pretext that it would be adolescent love. I would point out that, in the case of a defendant, there is first, before the case before the judge, an investigation to verify certain elements. Since this is a bill, we do not have an impact assessment; But, since we have talked a lot about teenage love that would be to protect, I am concerned that there has never been any case law that would quantify things. Before concluding, I would like to recall one figure: one in six women say that they did not consent to their first sexual intercourse, which, in one third of cases, took place before the age of 15. That is the reality that you do not want to see or of which you are not convinced enough. That is why we must vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u155	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u156	We must be very careful and modest on this type of subject. It seems to me that the amendments are in the right direction, as they tend to provide better protection for vulnerable people, such as children under the age of 15 – without systematically penalising relations between young people. It seems interesting to me to reduce the age gap in question, so to better combat the risk of manipulation and psychological influence on the younger ones. But, I repeat, we must be careful and modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u157	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u158	Unlike the majority of the Group of the European People's Party, I shall vote for the amendments in my personal capacity. A few minutes ago, I was interviewed by an American journalist who reminded me that in the United States, the legal age of consent was sixteen and that any sexual relationship before that age, even between two young people, was prohibited. We can see that not all countries are moving at the same speed. [[Mrs AlbaneGaillotetDanièleObonoapplaudent]] On the other hand – excuse me for having memory – I remember very well having addressed the subject of the age gap at the time of the Schiappa law; I had been told that it was unconstitutional, and it was not included in the text. Two years later, I sincerely welcome the fact that we are able to include it. [[Mrs AlbaneGaillot,DanièleObonoetMaudPetitapplaudent]] Let us leave aside the argument of anti-constitutionality and the debate on teenage love. I'd like to reverse the problem. We are here to legislate on criminal and criminal acts, not on the sexuality of the French, and much less on the sexuality of adolescents. We must protect victims when they are minors; This is the question we all ask ourselves here, it is the centre of the debate. It is not at all a question of whether there are consensual relationships between teenagers at the age of 13 or 14: these will never pass before a judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u159	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u160	[[Brouhahaha]] No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u161	Read the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u162	We are not going to have this debate here. The essential thing is that we have to protect people. If we keep the age difference of three years, the French will now know that any sexual relationship with a 15 year old is prohibited, and the judges will do their job when they find themselves in such cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u163	It's too easy to do that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u164	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u165	I'm stunned by what I just heard. If the age gap mentioned in the PPL is not retained, a teenager who would have a relationship with a 15-year-old child would become a criminal on the day of his or her age, and he would go before a judge – not any judge: before the criminal court at first instance, and, on appeal, before the court of assizes. Look at the text, it's clear. That is why we have planned the age gap; It is essential in the constitutional field, but also in the area of justice and fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u166	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u167	I will be brief since we have already said a lot about it. But one point seems important to me: as a legislator, we cannot vote on a text hoping that the judges will not apply it. That's not possible! It's up to us to take responsibility and do the part. If there is a classic story between two teenagers, one of whom becomes a major, the magistrate will be able to exercise his office. But if we adopt a text, the judge is supposed to apply the law. This is something we must not forget. We cannot say: "Let us vote for the law, and the magistrates will then manage. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u168	I put to the vote Amendment No 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u169	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 27 Against 57
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u170	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u171	It aims to set the non-consent threshold at 18 years for persons with disabilities. The figures are known: they are three to four times more often victims of sexual assault than others. It seems important to protect them more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u173	Request for withdrawal. This is a subject that we talked about very much at first reading. It was dear to Mrs Lebon, and I believe that Mrs Santiago had also mentioned her concern. We all pay attention to the protection of persons with disabilities, who are unfortunately far too often victims of violence. However, your proposal to set the age limit for non-consent at 18 does not seem appropriate, since it creates discrimination: because of its disability, a minor aged 17 would not enjoy the same rights as a minor of the same age who would not have a disability. I understand and share your objective, but this wording does not seem good to me. I would remind you that, in order to qualify a rape, the case law takes as a surprise the fact that the person has a disability. Adrien Taquet had explained these provisions at length at first reading. I ask you to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u175	Much remains to be done, but indeed age is not a relevant criterion for defining consent. For a person with a mental disability or an autism spectrum disorder, it is not the person who determines discernment and consent. That is why we asked the working group that I mentioned in the general discussion, which was formed several months ago – before the committee meeting and the discussion of the text in the Senate and then in the National Assembly – to address the issue of violence and disability. In fact, beyond the question of consent, there are many other subjects to be studied: how to gather the words of a child with disabilities, how to free that speech, how to train professionals to identify violence against children with disabilities... I mentioned in the general discussion very daily, very common acts, for example when a child with mental impairment or autism goes to the doctor and the doctor auscultes his body, as he does for every child, without asking for his consent. Isn't that where we have to start asking ourselves what kind of questions we're looking at right now? These are complex issues that go far beyond criminal law. The working group works under the responsibility of the ICH, the interdepartmental committee on disability, and it includes associations: Marie Rabatel de l'AFFA – l'Association francophone des femmes autistes –, Autisme France, l'association des TDAH – trouble of attention deficit with or without hyperactivity –, APF France Handicap, the Red Cross... I have heard Marie-George Buffet's request to involve parliamentarians, particularly Karine Lebon, in her work, which will be forwarded to the independent committee, because this is one of the priority tasks on which I specifically asked her to work. I regret that we have not been able to make further progress in this text, but these are complex issues that go far beyond the question of criminal law alone. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u176	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 9, 11 and 10, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u177	If you allow me to do so, I will defend the three amendments at the same time because they all relate to paragraph 13. I'm afraid you'll give me the same answer as you did earlier, so I'm going to go very fast, and you'll tell me if my fears are justified. Amendment No. 9 is intended to insert, in paragraph 13, the words "or a minor" after the words "major", so that incestuous rape can also be recognized, whether committed by a major or a minor. Amendment No. 11 proposes amending the last sentence of paragraph 13 to read: "in the case of one of the persons mentioned in 1° or 2° of Article 222-22-3" – i.e. an ascendant, a brother, a sister, an uncle, an aunt, a grand uncle, etc. – "their authority in law or in fact being characterized [...]". For persons who commit incestuous rape and who are mentioned in 1° or 2° of Article 222-22-3 of the Criminal Code, the authority in law or in fact should no longer be proved. I have heard what you said in the general discussion, minister, but it seems to me that, if it is not specified that the authority of law or fact is constituted in the case of incest by the persons mentioned, we will continue to impose on the victim, after she has had the courage to file a complaint against a close member of her family, the obligation to demonstrate the author's de facto authority against him. It seems to me that this is what we want to avoid. Amendment No 10 is an amendment of consistency, since the last occurrence of the word "major" is to be replaced by the word "author".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u179	As far as Amendments Nos 9 and 10 are concerned, the answer will be the same as before, and I will not elaborate on the argument again: request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable opinion. Request for withdrawal also with regard to Amendment No 11, in so far as it makes a step backwards. Under the proposed law, the condition of authority is not required for ascendants; We consider that a father or grandfather always exercises some form of authority and responsibility over their child or grandchild. But you ask that this be characterized for them too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u181	Mrs Ménard, your fears were well-founded: the Government is against your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u182	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u183	I withdraw the amendments, for the same reason as before: I do not want to block the text, knowing you are very attached to the vote. However, I would like to stress that this is not exactly the same situation as before. It was then a question of rape, whereas paragraph 13 concerns incest – and it will be the same in the amendments tabled on paragraph 19, which will be called later. Madam rapporteur, I believe that we have not understood each other well. I request that the authority of fact or of law be automatically recognized for the persons referred to in the first two paragraphs. It seems to me that it would be more protective for the victim.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u184	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u185	The proposed law excludes any search for a minor's consent when sexual penetration occurs. The amendment seeks, following a recommendation by the Women's Foundation, to criminalize the use of prostitution of a minor, and to ensure that it is considered rape.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u187	On the issue of prostitution, this text marks considerable progress, particularly with regard to the protection of children under the age of 15. Request for withdrawal, on issues of consistency and proportionality. We have established the rule of non-consent before 15 years, with the exceptions you know, especially regarding incest. I do not believe that it is necessary to remove the age limit of 15 in the case of prostitution and to consider all minors in perfect equality. A distinction must be made between a person seeking a minor under the age of 15, who can be considered a paedophile, and a person seeking minors under the age of 16 or 17. In such cases, it should be recalled that there is an offence punishable by five years' imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u189	If the prostitute is 18 years of age less than one day – he would therefore be affected by the amendment – the penalty for using his services is 20 years' imprisonment. If he is 18 years old, if he is of age, the penalty is a fine of 1500 euros. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u190	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u191	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u192	Identical amendments No 12 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and No 25 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u193	Amendment No 14 Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u194	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u195	I will not develop the argument that was put forward earlier; the aim of the amendment is to reduce the age gap referred to in paragraph 17 from five to four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u196	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u197	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u198	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 15, 17 and 16, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u199	I'll take them off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u200	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u201	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u202	You did well to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u203	We must always be vigilant! Trust in the Government does not exclude control!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u204	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u205	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u206	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u207	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 94 Number of votes cast 94 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 94 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u208	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u209	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u210	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects (No. 3875, 3995).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u211	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with amendment No. 478, which included additional article after article 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u212	On Amendment No 4416, which will be called in a moment, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 478 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras is being defended. Mr Lionel Causse, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters III to V of Title IV, spoke to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u213	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u214	The Deputy Minister for Housing has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u215	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u216	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3810 and 7225. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 3810.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u217	It aims to promote the identification of preferential areas for re-naturalisation and thus to encourage the guidance document and objectives of the SCOT (Schedule of Territorial Coherence). What is this identification for? To facilitate and influence compensation in order to develop as many renaturalization projects as possible in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u218	Amendment No 7225 by Mr Alain Perea is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u219	I would like to thank the two colleagues who supported these amendments, who are defending an important issue of re-naturalisation. We have already mentioned this issue, on which Valérie Petit is very involved. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u220	On Amendment No 5153, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 5153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u221	We come back to the situation of rural communes, faced with difficulties that are truly a blind point of the bill – despite a little progress yesterday – as well as texts voted for several years, especially during the previous legislature. Regulatory uniformity, which too often blocks planned developments in the rural sector, is thus symbolized by the restrictions of article L. 144 of the Urban Planning Code, which is a new translation of the statutory rigidity imposed by law on access to housing and a renovated urban planning, known as the ALUR Act. This article almost prevents any possibility of opening up to urbanisation for municipalities that are not covered by a SCOT. Rural municipalities subject to the national urban planning regulations – many of them still remain – that have invested in building areas, have been denied any permits to build since the implementation of these regulations. Such a requirement reinforces the feeling, shared by elected officials and owners, that the political choices of successive governments favour metropolization and large ensembles at the expense of rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u223	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u225	The amendment is not intended to amend the bill, but to revert, in the course of its consideration, to a text adopted in the previous Parliament. It aims to change the urban planning rules applicable to rural regeneration zones (RRAs). This issue has not really been the subject of an expert review of this text. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u226	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u227	This is an appeal amendment, Mr. Chairman Chassaigne. It is nevertheless important, and I agree with you in your analysis. Madam Minister-in-Charge, I would really like to hear about this. I agree with President Chassaigne: it is becoming increasingly difficult in our rural communities to obtain a building permit. If we want to avoid too much metropolization, people must be able to return to our territories. The social and territorial fractures, we saw what it gave: the yellow vests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u228	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u229	You say, Madam Deputy Minister, that you did not have time to study the amendment. I am surprised that this is the case, because it was tabled on time. It corresponds to an extremely high expectation in the rural communes which remain governed by the national urban planning regulations. I regret that you rejected him without further explanation. You and the rapporteur should have studied it; It was even your duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u230	I put to the vote Amendment No. 5153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u231	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 58 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 18 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u232	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 4415.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u233	It provides for two measures. First, it aims to include, as part of the mandatory planning and programming guidelines (PAO), a timetable for openings to urbanization. I am very committed, as you know, to real planning in all urban planning documents. This would therefore be in line with what I have wanted since the beginning of the bill's review. Secondly, the amendment aims to reduce from nine to six years the period after which the opening to urbanisation of an area to be urbanised 2AU requires a revision of the local urban planning plan (PLU). The aim is to accelerate the openness to urbanization in the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u234	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 7227.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u235	This amendment by the Republic Group is aimed at strengthening the protection of biodiversity and ecological continuity in the PLU regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u236	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 4416, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 7402.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u237	It concerns urban fringes, a subject that we mentioned yesterday on numerous occasions. I propose that local elected representatives should be able to seize the issue of urban fringes within the framework of the PDOs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u238	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 7402.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u239	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to clarify how elected representatives will be able to exercise the legal capacity to provide for and organize urban fringes in urban planning documents. This new tool, which is very much demanded by the agricultural profession, will in particular help to anticipate conflicts of use and neighbourhood within the framework of the obligations resulting from non-treatment zones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u240	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u241	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u242	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u243	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u244	I put to the vote Amendment No 4416, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u245	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 62 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u246	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 4089.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u247	Mr Chassaigne defended an appeal amendment earlier; I am defending a second appeal amendment here. In the continuation of the amendment advocated by Mr Chassaigne, we propose opening up to municipalities classified as rural revitalisation zones or which have suffered a demographic loss, and exclusively to them, the possibility of zoned areas potentially constructible in urban planning documents, subject to the preservation of agricultural land and the proximity of public networks. The aim is to offer these municipalities a solution of withdrawal, with the aim of remedying the unavailability of the building plots initially identified in each PLU or PLUI – local inter-municipal planning plan. It is the responsibility of the municipalities which would use these fall-back zones to comply with the SCOT requirements as to the surfaces which may accommodate new constructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u249	In keeping with what I said yesterday, I would point out that local elected officials have planning tools that they can use to open up to urbanization. What is more, we adopted yesterday, thanks to the initiative of President Chassaigne, a sub-amendment that will allow us to take into account, in the SRADDET – regional planning, sustainable development and equality of territories – the issues specific to municipalities classified as rural revitalization zones. Considering that the amendment is satisfactory, I am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u251	The same opinion as the rapporteur: the draft law already provides for a declination and development, at different scales, of the objective of reducing the artificialisation of the soil, and yesterday we strengthened this mechanism by explicitly mentioning the areas of rural revitalization. On the other hand, municipalities have the possibility to define areas to be urbanised with an appropriate regulation, including for areas not yet equipped with networks. To the extent that the opening of these areas is justified by the needs of the municipality and the impossibility of meeting them by already urbanised spaces, it is already possible to create this type of specific zoning. I believe that the amendment is satisfied with the law in force, which is why it is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u252	I have before me three amendments, Nos 5020, 3768 and 7226, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Tuffnell to support Amendment No. 5020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u253	It follows from Action 21 of the road map from the water assemblages. It aims to ensure that elected representatives better integrate issues related to the waterproofing and dewatering of soils, which are essential for the preservation of biodiversity, by allowing them to set a minimum proportion of non-waterproof and eco-cleanable surfaces, weighted according to their nature, in the LRP. A ground in the open ground, we know, does not at all have the same permeability, nor the same impact on the water resource, as gravel or a paved terrace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u254	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 3768 and 7226, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u255	They're almost identical. They may seem very technical, but they can easily be understood. I hope that you will retain one of the two, with Amendment No 7226 being supported by the Group of the European People's Party on the move. They aim to ensure that, in the PLU, a minimum proportion of open ground vegetated areas are imposed in the densest areas of France, namely the areas of continuous urbanization of more than 50,000 inhabitants and the communes of more than 15,000 inhabitants in rapid population growth. The ambition is either to protect existing open ground spaces, or – this is the small bonus that the bill would bring – to deartificialize urban centres that are far too dense. In other words, it is a matter of using nature as a spatial planning tool. The city-nature is the tool of tomorrow that will simply prevent us from dying hot in our cities. It will, of course, contribute to climate regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u256	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u257	These are important provisions. I am in favour of Amendment No 7226 by Mrs Chalas and call for Amendment No 5020 by Mrs Tuffnell, which would have too broad implications, and Amendment No 3768 by Mrs Chalas, which would be far too policy-oriented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u259	The same opinion as the rapporteur: I am in favour of Amendment No 7226 and call for the withdrawal of the other two – with a special mention for the water bases, which I had the pleasure of animating in the previous period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u260	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u261	In accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur and the minister delegate, I withdraw Amendment No 3768, which stated that they were non-waterproof or eco-cleanable surfaces "to be conserved or created, especially in the densest areas". I trust local elected officials to engage in the de-artificialization of the densest centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u262	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u263	Here we are talking about the capture of water by the soil, that is, the water resource and the resilience of the territories. Therefore, I do not think that there should be any difference between the number of inhabitants or the type of local authority – which is what Mrs Chalas' amendment No 7226 is about. On the contrary, the measure must be general and apply to all communities; The law is there for that. Differentiation must be made according to the nature of the soil: a minimum proportion of eco-cleanable or dewatering surfaces must be imposed. I therefore maintain my amendment No 5020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u264	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 3108.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u265	It aims to reduce the time between two PLU reviews from nine to six years, so that this time frame corresponds to the term of office of local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u266	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 7156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u267	With this amendment signed by Julien Aubert and many colleagues of the Republicans Group, we propose a model compatible with a future in house for our fellow citizens who make this choice of life, whether it is to build a new house or to extend an existing house. The artificialisation resulting from such work could be offset by improvements aimed at reducing the carbon footprint of the plot concerned, e.g. by planting trees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u269	I have indicated this on several occasions since the beginning of the discussion of the text, this important subject must be addressed in the planning documents, namely SCOT or PLUI, and not at the level of the building permit. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u271	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u272	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u273	The amendment concerns very concrete cases: the construction of a house or the addition of an extension of a few tens of square meters to an existing house – when the surface is reduced, there is not necessarily a building permit. In my view, it would be appropriate to establish a rather flexible national rule, which would be specified by order-in-council, rather than referring to SCOT, which is the level at which many issues need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u274	I call Mrs Lasserre to support Amendment No. 5023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u275	In accordance with the recommendations of the report on the control of the costs of land in construction operations, submitted to the Prime Minister in November 2019, and those of article 3 of the draft law aimed at reducing the cost of land and increasing the supply of housing accessible to the French, adopted unanimously by the National Assembly on 28 November 2019, article 49 bis of this draft law aims to create housing and land observatories to analyse the conditions of the land and real estate markets as well as the available land supply. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the tasks of these housing and land observatories, so that they report annually on the number of dwellings built on already urbanised areas and on areas open to urbanisation. This study of housing construction in a given territory would feed into the deliberations of local elected officials on their local housing programme – PLH – or their local inter-municipal urban planning plan with the value of a local housing programme – PLUIH. In addition, the amendment provides that the annual review of the local housing programme, which is the subject of a deliberation by the public institution for inter-municipal cooperation – EPCI – pursuant to Article L. 302-3 of the Construction and Housing Code, is drawn up on the basis of the Habitat and Land Observatory and includes, for each of the municipalities, a comparison between the annualised objectives of the local housing programme and the results of the previous exercise. The objectives of the PLH, which are formulated in terms of programming, financing and sometimes agreements, can thus be compared with the balance sheet of financing, approvals, agreements or authorisations granted during the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u277	Favourable opinion. Mrs Lasserre, I think that your amendment is in the right direction, since it aims at a better articulation between the housing and land observatory and the PLH on these two important issues: land control and housing – in its various aspects – and a good information for local elected officials working on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u278	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u279	My opinion is also favourable. I would like to take this opportunity to commend Mr.Jean-Luc Lagleize's work on land control, a work that finds a natural outlet in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u280	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor to support Amendment No. 5423, which is the subject of a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u281	Urban planning agencies are recognized tools to help organize urban spaces. However, many territories do not have such facilities and do not have access to their engineering, although they are not intended to accommodate this type of structure in the long term. We therefore propose that municipalities or EPCIs located in nearby territories may finance such support, on an ad hoc basis, through sponsorship actions, by promoting the carrying out of studies, the reconquest of the existing one in the urban fabric and the optimization of the organisation of space – in accordance with the main objective of the bill: the promotion of sobriety of land. This amendment, which is part of the continuity of all our exchanges last night, is really aimed at accompanying the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u282	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 7430.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u283	It is intended to provide legal clarification to this amendment, which provides for funding to be possible through sponsorship. Town planning agencies may only intervene under a partnership development project contract or an operation agreement for the revitalization of the territory; These should therefore be mentioned. The sub-amendment, while respecting the philosophy of the amendment, tends to secure it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u284	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u285	Opinion in favour of the amendment and the sub-amendment. All the measures that allow the territories to benefit from engineering, in particular that of urban planning agencies, are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u286	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3031 and 3646, on the additional article after Rule 49a. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 3031.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u287	In view of the great disparities in the national territory, which we have already mentioned, it is essential to provide all communities with the means to deal with the land issue, so that they can build a real land strategy. The Equality and Citizenship Act has made it possible to integrate this strong concern into local housing programmes, through diagnostic tools and principles of action in the area of land resources. But we must recognize the insufficiency of these contributions at the operational level. In tense territory or in municipalities subject to a catch-up obligation under the Act on Solidarity and Urban Renewal, known as the SRU, a systematization of the tools and procedures for monitoring and prospecting land would allow to characterize, in connection with the FTEs – public land establishments – and urban planning agencies, the urban land deposits, their main characteristics and the average densities found in order to feed the programming and planning documents. In addition, it is essential to impose a genuine land action plan that incorporates quantified targets for resources for the production of social housing and affordable housing. These steps should facilitate monitoring and monitoring of land and real estate transactions in order to define average prices by type of property and by area of territory, to regulate land prices and, finally, to evaluate the actions of the communities for the programming of the PLH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u288	Amendment No 3646 by Mr François Pupponi is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u289	I share your concern, Mrs Pinel; These are important issues in the territories. It is precisely for these reasons that we have now voted for the establishment of housing and land observatories. All the information you mention can be provided by these bodies. I therefore consider that your amendment is satisfactory. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u291	Same opinion. Mrs Pinel, I obviously share your objective: to develop social and affordable housing requires, of course, a reflection on land. However, I consider that the current provisions of the Construction and Housing Code, supplemented by the strengthening of the role of the housing and land observatories and of course by the concrete support of the State in these steps, in particular through CEREMA – a centre of studies and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and development – make it possible to satisfy this. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u292	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u293	I am particularly pleased to withdraw the amendment because I have tabled other amendments, aimed at strengthening the role of the observatories of land habitat, but which were considered inadmissible; I therefore understand your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u294	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3275.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u295	Article 49b, which imposes a cumbersome and complex system, should be deleted, while the elected representatives agree on the urgent need for simplification and many EPCIs are already strangled at the budgetary level, following the massive transfers of powers during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u297	It is, of course, very unfavourable. Among the intercommunalities concerned by this article – those with more than 30,000 inhabitants comprising at least one municipality with more than 10,000 inhabitants – many already have a PLH. The purpose of the article is therefore to recognize the work done and to help intercommunals who wish to commit them to go faster. This is in the right direction, because the PLH is essential for local elected officials, who are able to know their territories even better, which is important. This tool will also allow them to plan their housing and housing activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u299	Unfavorable opinion. Article 49b has a dual scope. First, it provides a drafting clarification regarding the EPCIs already subject to the obligation to carry out a PLH, without changing the number: 359. Second, it explicitly gives the possibility to other EPCIs to carry out one. It is therefore an article of clarification, which does not create a new obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u300	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u301	That the rapporteur is reassured: while I was elected to an EPCI of less than 30,000 inhabitants, we made a PLH on an optional basis – that is, the interest that the scheme arouses. I withdraw the amendment, in the light of the explanations given by the Minister-in-Charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u302	Amendment No 5425 by Mrs Sandra Marsaud, containing an additional article after Rule 49b, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u303	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3276 and 3278, to delete Article 49c. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3276.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u304	Once again, where simplification is needed, the text imposes burdensome and complex requirements. Article 49c thus provides for the representation of SCOTs in the CTAPs – territorial conferences for public action. Imagine what problems this will pose in a XXL region like mine, which goes from Ile-de-France to Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u305	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 3278.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u306	I warn you: the land commissions do not have their place in the CTAPs. For sitting in a PATC, as the first vice-president of a region of thirteen departments, I can tell you that many territories are not represented, while others are over-represented in their population. This measure will not achieve its objective. I understand that there is a need for a forum for discussion and discussion on these issues. But really, it can't be the CTAP, even by setting up an Adhoc commission. We have to find another one. For my part, I would rather propose the draft territories, which are the subject of agreements between the PETRs – the poles of territorial and rural balance –, the intercommunalities and the regions, and constitute a much more relevant step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u307	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u308	The article, created as a special commission, aims to strengthen the link between SRADDET and SCOTs. To involve the presidents of the joint SCOT trade unions in the PATCs will help to reassure them. I hope, like everyone else, that the device will work. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u309	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u310	Article 49c does not confer exclusive jurisdiction on the PATCs to deal with territorial coherence. It simply allows the representation of SCOTs to be integrated into the CTAP, allowing the regional level to be organized according to the wishes of the communities. Integrate SCOTs into these conferences therefore remains relevant; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u311	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u312	Take the example of Occitanie, which I know well. The CTAP comprises the president of the regional council, the presidents of the departmental councils, the presidents of EPCIs of more than 30,000 inhabitants having their seat in the territory of the region, an elected representative of EPCIs of less than 30,000 inhabitants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u313	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u314	... one elected representative for each category of commune – those with less than 3500 inhabitants, those with between 3500 and 30,000 inhabitants, those with more than 30,000 inhabitants. With thirteen departments, do you realize what this represents? And we should add the presidents of the public establishments responsible for piloting SCOTs! I have been extremely vigilant and constructive during these debates, but here, Madam Deputy Minister, I think you are missing your target. You should rework this question, because I know from experience, after being in your place and having moderated PBTCs as the first regional vice-president, that these conferences are not the right level to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u315	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u316	It is on my proposal that the regional level was chosen to define the objective of reducing the consumption of space and to include it in the territories. Even though, during the hearings, the complexity of the functioning of the PATC was stressed, I proposed several amendments aimed at strengthening the role of this area of governance, which has the merit of already existing, while reforming it, to make it the place of debate – it is circular economy, in a way! If I agree with the complexity of the functioning of the PATCs, the hearings showed that participants need to be as close to the region as possible to exchange information. This is the subject of my following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u317	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u318	I can hear you, dear colleague. However, I think it is better to leave it to the regions to organise the work on land management and the territorialisation of policies, depending on the specificities of the territories. A multitude of territories and intercommunalities are not represented in the PATCs. It cannot therefore be dealt with as measures affecting them. The region can organize this debate at a lower level to make it more relevant and effective. This article is a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u319	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 5427 and 5426.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u320	All the amendments I have tabled – and I thank the rapporteur and the minister for having shared my point of view in this regard – had as their guiding principle to get everyone on board, since it is a question of sobriety of land. Since civil society and the economic world are represented in the development councils set up in the EPCIs, I propose, by Amendment No 5427, that the representatives of these development councils be included in the CTAPs. Amendment No 5426, in line with the Committee on Culture set up – no doubt through a parliamentary amendment – by the Law MAPTAM (Law on the Modernisation of Territorial Public Action and the Affirmation of Metropolises), tends to create, at regional level, a thematic commission dedicated to the land and territorialisation of the objective of combating the artificialisation of the soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u322	Opinions against these two amendments. For Amendment No 5427, even if it is necessary to change the PATCs, this is not the purpose of this text. It is certainly possible to integrate SCOT presidents – it is in direct connection with Chapter III we are discussing, "Fighting against the artificialisation of the soil by adapting urban planning rules", and this is also justified because of the link between SCOTs and SRADDETs – but going beyond it would deserve a much more global reflection. As far as Amendment No 5426 is concerned, I would point out that the CTAPs can already set up sub-committees and work on the topics they want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u324	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u325	Mr François Jolivet's amendment No 6267 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u326	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1011, 3206, 3888, 5673, 1725, 1809, 1967, 2299, 2803, 3281, 3496, 4973, 5219 corrected, 5478 and 6141, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 3206, 3888 and 5763 are identical. Amendments Nos 1725, 1809, 1967, 2299, 2803, 3281, 3496, 4973, 5219 corrected, 5478 and 6141, also identical, are the subject of four sub-amendments Nos 7388, 7412, 7413 and 7414. Amendment No 1011 by Mr Vincent Descoeur is being defended. Identical amendments Nos 3206 by Mrs Patricia Lemoine, 3888 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 5763 by Mr Stéphane Baudu are being defended. The identical amendments Nos 1725 by Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux, 1809 by Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier, 1967 by Ms Jennifer De Temmerman, 2299 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 2803 by Mr David Lorion, 3281 by Mr Thibault Bazin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u327	It's an editorial amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u328	...3496 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 4973 by Mrs Pascale Boyer are defended. I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support Amendment No. 5219, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u329	The Special Committee adopted an amendment to create the sobriety contract. This amendment aims to supplement and adapt these provisions, in conjunction with the associations of the elected representatives of the territories, in particular the AdCF – Association des communautés de France –, urban France and the FNAU – Fédération nationale des agencies d'urbanisme – which have worked on this subject. We propose to replace the sobriety contract with a sobriety agreement, to allow the territories to clarify their sobriety policy, without waiting for the necessary evolution of planning and urban planning documents. Through these conventions, the State and the communities will organize the mobilization of engineering, specify the needs for study or observatory, identify the programmes to achieve the objectives of sobriety of land. The amendment also seeks to clarify how the State is mobilised and the means used by the communities to achieve the objectives. These new agreements will enable past sobriety trajectories, as well as those listed in the SCOT and the PLUs, to be acted upon. Finally, the amendment aims to make the region one of the actors of the SRADDET.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u330	The identical amendments Nos 5478 by Mr Yves Hemedinger...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u331	Which is defended, because of the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u332	... and No. 6141 of Mrs. Claire Bouchet are defended. In this joint debate, the rapporteur has the floor to support the four sub-amendments Nos 7388, 7412, 7413 and 7414 to these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u333	They tend to provide two clarifications or two modulations. On the one hand, the prefect will not be able to invoke the signing of a sobriety agreement in order to extend the deadlines for the preparation of urban planning documents by two years, which we have set from five to six years. On the other hand, the wording of paragraph 6 suggesting that such agreements would become mandatory for communities, since they " serve" as a frame of reference, I suggest that they "can serve" as a frame of reference, in order to clarify their non-mandatory nature for communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u334	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u335	I am in favour of the series of amendments Nos 1725 and 1725, which are sub-reserved from the adoption of the rapporteur's sub-amendments: the current wording will be clarified by replacing the name of a convention with that of a contract and by specifying the role of those conventions, without allowing any derogation from the timetable and retaining their optional character. I am therefore against the other amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u336	Amendment No 215 by Mr Dino Cinieri, introducing an additional article after Rule 49d, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u337	Amendment No 5179 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier, which would delete Article 50, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u338	I have before me four amendments, Nos 607, 4424, 2406 and 5155, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2406 and 5155 are identical. Amendment No 607 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet is being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 4424.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u339	The draft law provides that the mayor or president of the EPCI competent in matters of local planning plan, town planning document in place or communal map will draft at least once every two years for communes of less than 3500 inhabitants and at least once a year for communes and EPCIs of more than 3500 inhabitants, a report on the artificialisation of the soil in its territory in the previous calendar years. Long time must be taken into account: a multi-year report at the end of the mandate seems more relevant and realistic in terms of the time taken to implement the development projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u340	Amendment No 2406 by Mrs Lise Magnier is being defended. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 5155.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u341	He proposed that the amendments to Article 50 introduced in the Special Committee should be reconsidered and that a report should be submitted every two years for all municipalities, regardless of their size, since the biennial rate appeared to be largely sufficient to measure the effects of the common policy on the fight against artificialisation, while the annual submission of such a report was of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u343	Rule 50, adopted in a special committee, which we have already discussed, is in the right direction. It provides for the right timing and deadlines. Opinion against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u345	It is important to have, at least at the beginning, a very regular assessment, as the provisions adopted by the special committee allow: one year for the most important communes, two years for the smallest communes, which is the right balance point. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u346	Amendment No 3219 by Mrs Patricia Lemoine is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u347	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 4091.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u348	We propose that all municipal and community elected representatives should be informed of the report on the artificialisation of the soil and be able to discuss it, and that this obligation should not in fact be limited to the elected representatives of the Community alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u349	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u350	It does not seem useful to me to include in the law the obligation to present this report both at the intercommunal level, if there is a PLUI, and at the town hall. Let us leave to the mayor the freedom to do so in his commune, if he wishes. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u351	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u352	Same opinion. It is important that the obligation be exercised in the competent community and remain optional for the other level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u353	Amendments Nos 5666 by Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person, 3714 by Mr Christophe Jerretie and 4776 by Mr François-Michel Lambert, which could be discussed jointly, were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u354	I have before me five amendments, Nos 489, 3342, 4650, 5640 and 6602, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 3342, 4650, 5640 and 6602 are identical. Amendments Nos 489 by Mr Martial Saddier, 3342 by Mr Dominique Potier and 4650 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u355	Strongly defended! I'm not saying any more because of the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u356	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 5640.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u357	I'll try to defend him strongly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u358	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u359	[[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] He proposed adding the concept of waterproofing to the report on soil artificialisation, bearing in mind that an artificialized soil was not necessarily impermeabilized. In order to better prevent the flow of water and floods, especially in highly affected areas, it is essential to include in the municipal balance sheet the impermeabilised areas: parking areas, commercial centres, roads, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u360	Amendment No 6602 by Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u361	These amendments help to overburden the report produced by the local elected representatives: earlier, some wanted to delete it on the grounds that it was too heavy, and now, on the contrary, they are seeking to densify it, adding elements difficult to calculate and measure. Of course, such an idea may prove useful, but it is best to remain with the tool of artificialisation, which must be defined and implemented with local elected officials – which is already ambitious. Let us focus on the subject of this chapter. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u363	Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments. While the monitoring of waterproofing will be well integrated into the report on artificialisation, waterproofing as such cannot be followed with national data. However, one of the issues raised in the Special Commission is the possibility for communities preparing these reports to have reliable, easily accessible and publicly available data. We do not have an observation device dedicated to the only issue of soil waterproofing, which will be included in the report on artificialisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u364	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u365	I wouldn't want any misunderstanding. Of course, we do not want to make the task of the future authors of this report more complex. I will give only two examples, drawn from my constituency, which is regularly flooded. When there is work, it is possible to artificialize without impermeabilising the soil, for example by using stabilized for parking. It's a well-known process. In the same way, a football field has been installed: it is artificial, since it is covered with a synthetic grass, but it is not waterproof. The shade is desired. The concept of dewatering can therefore, in my view, be incorporated into the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u366	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 402, 792, 1017, 1142 and 3146. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor in support of Amendment No 402.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u367	The "zero net artificialization" objective can only be achieved by strongly developing re-naturalization and compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u368	Amendments Nos 792 by Mr Pierre Vatin, 1017 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, 1142 by Mr Michel Vialay and 3146 by Mrs Lise Magnier are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u369	I call Mrs Lasserre to support Amendment No. 5024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u370	The aim is to supplement the annual report on the artificialisation of soils with a list of the different types of wasteland to be valued, along the lines of what is described exhaustively in Article 53 corresponding to the areas of economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u371	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u372	Unfavorable opinion. This would overburden the report while SCOTs and LRPs are already integrating environmental and agricultural studies, allowing for periodic monitoring by local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u374	Same opinion. We would move from an annual report to a real inventory, of a completely different nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u375	Amendment No 3343 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u376	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2964 and 3611. Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2964.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u377	In the same spirit, and although I understood that you did not want this report to go back to inventory, this amendment seeks to ensure that the annual report to combat artificialisation includes a census of agricultural and industrial wasteland, as well as of commercial premises and empty offices. As a local elected official, it seems important to me: I challenge you to quote a single community in Bouches-du-Rhône that knows exactly the wasteland, offices and empty commercial premises at its disposal; As fewer industrial wastelands are available, they are probably better known. A comprehensive assessment of the agricultural wasteland on the plot would be particularly interesting, since it must be possible to re-cultivate it. The establishment of young farmers in the future is a major challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u378	Amendment No 3611 by Mr François-Michel Lambert is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u379	Again, the report would be burdened. We have voted for a definition of wasteland in Article 53, which also requires an inventory of areas of activity. We will thus know the existing wasteland. I would also point out that tools exist, in particular the "Cartofriches" application of CEREMA. Local elected officials can use them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u380	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u381	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u382	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u383	The Act of 13 October 2014 on the Future for Agriculture, Food and Forestry (LAAAF) entrusted this inventory to the Departmental Commission for the Preservation of Natural, Agricultural and Forest Areas (CDPENAF). But this body does not have the means to do so. Someone's gonna have to do it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u384	Amendment No 5428 by Mrs Sandra Marsaud is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u385	Amendment No 1433 by Mr François-Michel Lambert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u386	I have before me two identical amendments, No 1309 by Mrs Nathalie Serre and No 3285 by Mr Thibault Bazin. They're being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u387	Amendment No 3675 by Mr François-Michel Lambert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u388	I have before me eight identical amendments, No 41 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 903 by Mr Gérard Cherpion, 1300 by Mr Christophe Naegelen, 5184 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier, 5300 by Mr David Habib, 5788 by Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, 5968 by Mr Rémy Rebeyrotte and 6543 by Mr Jean-Luc Pouroux. All these amendments are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u389	This is a discussion we had in the special committee: I would remind you that this report is forwarded to the Prefect, who is also the chairman of the CDPENAF. These amendments are therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u390	On Article 50, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Identical Amendments Nos 1036 by Mr Charles de Courson and 4036 by Mr Robin Reda are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u391	These provisions have already been adopted in a special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u392	I have before me many identical amendments, Nos 1137, 1717, 1724, 1747, 2490, 2493, 3058, 3310, 3980, 5347, 5582, 6364 and 7158. Amendments Nos 1137 by Mr Fabrice Brun, 1717 by Mr Pierre Cordier, 1724 by Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, 1747 by Mrs Marianne Dubois, 2490 by Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux, 2493 by Mr Julien Dive, 3058 by Mrs Monique Limon, 3310 by Mr Dominique Potier and 3980 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz are defended. Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 5347.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u393	Article 50 of this draft law provides for the obligation for municipalities or EPCIs competent for local planning plans, town planning documents in lieu of municipal maps to draw up, at least once every two years, for municipalities of less than 3500 inhabitants, and once a year, for municipalities and EPCIs of more than 3500 inhabitants, a report on the artificialisation of soils in their territories. The legislation does not provide for a synthesis of these reports. However, it is important to know at the departmental level the extent of artificialization. It is thus proposed that the representative of the State direct the CDPENAF, on the basis of these reports, to carry out an inventory of the artificialization in the department. A decree issued by the Council of State will have to specify the characteristics of this inventory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u394	Amendments Nos 5582 by Mr Paul Molac, 6364 by Mr Nicolas Forissier and 7158 by Mr Julien Aubert are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u395	These amendments are aimed at entrusting the CDPENAF with the monitoring of soil artificialisation. However, we already have a tool to do this: the National Observatory for the Artificialization of Soils uses CEREMA data in particular. It will continue to be responsible for the follow-up to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u397	These amendments are satisfied with the existence of the National Observatory for Artificialisation, entrusted to CEREMA, which will be able to produce data at the departmental level. On the contrary, you ask each CDPENAF secretariat to aggregate all the data from the municipal or EPCI reports. I believe that the mechanism is lighter for civil servants and for territorial actors. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u398	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u399	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 4447.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u400	I would like to stress, Madam Minister, the need for a universal instrument for the accounting of land uses; There is a need for language common to different departments and communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u402	This demand is significant, but met. It is envisaged that a decree in the Council of State will establish "a nomenclature of artificialized soils according to their occupation and use". Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u403	Amendment No 2050 by Mr Lionel Causse, rapporteur, is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u404	I have before me eleven amendments, Nos 5156, 257, 1271, 1528, 2178, 2427, 3286, 4565, 7157, 4492 and 6430, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 257, 1271, 1528, 2178, 2427, 3286, 4565 and 7157 are identical. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 5156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u405	We agree with the idea of a report on the artificialisation of soils produced by each municipality or EPCI, giving rise to a debate before the municipal council or the deliberative assembly. On the other hand, we believe it is important to give the future authors of this report tools to carry out this work. We therefore request that the State transmit the data from the National Observatory for the Artificialization of Soils to the communities responsible for drafting the report, and that it provide technical and financial support to those who cannot conduct the necessary expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u406	Amendments Nos 257 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 1271 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet are defended. Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor to support Amendment No. 1528.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u407	In the same spirit, we hope that the State will transmit the data from the National Observatory for the Artificialization of Soils to the communities responsible for the drafting of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u408	Amendments Nos 2178 by Mr Arnaud Viala, 2427 by Mr Gérard Menuel, 3286 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 4565 by Mr Hervé Saulignac, 7157 by Mr Julien Aubert, 4492 by Mr Alain Perea and 6430 by Mrs Sandrine Le Feur were defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u409	It is also a debate that we have had in the special committee. We recalled that it would be difficult, as it is, to transmit the data to all municipalities every year. But it is important that this data be accessible. I therefore express an opinion in favour of Amendment No 4492, which states that "the State shall make the data of the Observatory of Artificialisation available to the communities concerned". That seems to me the best formula.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u411	These amendments all demonstrate the same willingness that the data collected by the National Observatory for the Artificialisation of Soils – ONAS – are made available to local and regional authorities, in particular the municipalities. Like the rapporteur, I have a favourable opinion on Mr Alain Perea's amendment No 4492, which provides that the conditions for making this available are to be laid down in a decree in the Council of State. I call for the other amendments to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u412	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u413	I withdraw my amendment in favour of Mr Perea, who is better written than mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u414	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor to support Amendment No. 4493.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u415	This amendment specifies that in order to produce their report, municipalities with less than 3500 inhabitants must be able to rely on data and maps produced by the State, particularly in the framework of ONAS. Otherwise, the report would place a recurrent and costly cost of study on these municipalities, which do not have a permanent geographic information service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u416	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u417	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, since under the terms of Mr Perea's Amendment No 4492, which we have just adopted, the ONAS data will be accessible to all without any particular additional costs – except for the cost of access, but the technological tools at our disposal should make it easy to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u418	I put to the vote Rule 50, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u419	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 61 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u420	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-15-O1251.u421	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The meeting is adjourned.
