ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u1	The next item is the final reading of the proposal for a law to improve the health system through confidence and simplification (No 4047).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u3	First of all, I would like to ask you to excuse the absence of Olivier Véran, who, alongside you, has followed every step of the way in this bill: he is now retained in Reims with the President of the Republic. We are entering the final phase of parliamentary scrutiny of a major text, both through the commitments it aims to achieve – those of the Ségur de la santé – and through its consequences for the day-to-day lives of the players in our health system, who have been facing the unthinkable for more than a year. The Ségur de la santé was not an umpteenth consultation leading to a report destined to end up in a drawer: the third meeting of the follow-up committee, which brings together all the actors in the health system, showed a very strong expectation, if not an impatience, that its commitments would be fulfilled in their entirety. The Ségur de la santé is a historic sum on the table: almost 9 billion euros to recognise and upgrade the healthcare professions, 19 billion euros to boost investment in health. I will not go back to the upgrading agreements signed in Matignon on 13 July, nor to the launch by the Prime Minister on 9 March of the investment component. The Minister of Solidarity and Health announced yesterday the continuation of the salary increases, along with those of the health care, medical-technical and rehabilitation staff. Our objective is clear and ambitious. I would like to share with you what its concrete translation will be in the coming months: for a nurse, 290 euros net monthly more after a year of career; 335 euros after five years; EUR 461 after 20 years; 536 euros at the end of the career. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, a nurse at the end of her career will now earn more than 3300 net euros per month. A caregiver will see his salary increase by 228 euros net monthly after one year of career, 261 euros after five years, 335 euros after twenty years and 651 euros at the end of career. It was important that I take a few moments to detail all this – what this bill will allow, which you will allow earlier, I hope, by finally adopting this text. In addition to these long-awaited revalorizations – I would say almost beyond the ages, in any case beyond the political alternations – the Segur of Health has resulted in a solid, shared diagnosis of our entire health system. Whether it is investment, to look to the future with confidence, whether it is governance, to ensure the fair participation of those who care, whether it is expanding the skills of health professionals, we have not avoided any topic; Neither do you, Madam rapporteur – dear Stéphanie Rist. Still, it was necessary to transform the test and give the force of law to our commitments: that is the meaning of your bill. After two readings in the National Assembly and so much in the Senate, after improvements made by both houses, I would like to pay tribute to the work of each of you, in particular, once again, yours, rapporteur. Within the hospital, Ségur, including a recommendation from Professor Olivier Claris' report, advocated the rehabilitation of the service, its role and its place, in order to put an end to the excesses of the law of 21 July 2009 on the reform of the hospital and on patients, health and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u4	Thank you, Mrs Bachelot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u5	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u6	From now on, it will be a reality. This bill also responds to the long-standing demand, reinforced by the health crisis, for greater freedom of internal organisation of health facilities. The crisis has shown that collectives of care can adapt, organize themselves, overcome extremely difficult circumstances, without waiting for an agreement, a validation, a hierarchical green light. If the medical-care communities agree to adapt the medical organisation, to establish a governance slightly different from that of the neighbour, why prevent them from doing so on the pretext that it would not be the norm? We want to give the hospital this freedom of internal organisation and governance, at the hands of local actors: the institutions will now have this opportunity. We must continue to make progress on hospital democracy. With this text, you will allow a representative of non-medical personnel, a representative of health students and a representative of users to sit on the board of public hospitals. It seems self-evident; Yet, this has not been the case so far! Tomorrow, it will be a reality in many hospitals. The Government ensured that a balance was maintained between parliamentary work and that related to the Order of 17 March on territorial hospital groups – GHT – made pursuant to the Act of 24 July 2019 on the organization and transformation of the health system. In this way, the Medical Establishment Commissions (MECs) and the Medical Grouping Commissions (MMCs) will soon form decision-making bodies in the lives of hospitals, having themselves and their presidents appointed revised missions, in accordance with the recommendations of the Claris report, which set the course we are following. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform of hospital governance has been particularly supported by Olivier Véran. I repeat, it will now be a reality, thanks to the substantial developments brought about by this bill. Moreover, we are engaged together in the fight against the mercenarism of the medical interim, which disorganizes the provision of care in our territories and undermines the finances of hospitals. On this important point, I thank you for returning to the initial drafting of the text: once and for all, we will be able to make effective the regulatory cap on this matter, by obliging the public accountant to reject any payment exceeding this ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u8	This bill also strengthens the dynamics created this summer during the Segur, for example the extension of the field of competence of certain professions: I am thinking in particular of midwives and paramedical professions – massagers-kinesitherapists, speech therapists, occupational therapists. To open up new areas of action to them is to make the choice of trust and efficiency. Our health care system will be able to meet the challenges it faces only by putting an end to the small wars between chapels, for the defense of square meadows, where some would like to lock us up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u9	Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u10	That is why the Minister of Solidarity and Health will very soon launch a mission of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – devoted to the issues of Article 1, which deals with medical assistants in advanced practice and is fully linked to the reflection that we have initiated on the appearance, in our health landscape, of an intermediate profession. Many of you have drawn our attention to the specificities of IADE, state-qualified anaesthetist nurses, particularly mobilized during the health crisis, like many health professionals, and to whom I wish to express once again my full gratitude, as well as that of the Government. With regard to their professional practice and skills, the mission I have just mentioned will have to formulate ambitious proposals; As far as their recognition of wages is concerned, the specialised IDEs are obviously concerned by our announcements yesterday, with an increase of 200 euros after one year of career and 570 euros after twenty years. So you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the government's commitment to these professionals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I wanted to go back to the main thrusts of this bill, because they are all changes expected by the actors and for our health system. We are pleased to see the Ségur de la santé complete its parliamentary journey in this House today; We are looking forward, collectively, to seeing these developments implemented on the ground. I once again welcome the work of all those who have enriched this text: tomorrow they will contribute to giving it the strength of a promise kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u11	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u12	We are here today to discuss the final reading of the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification. We are gathered around this text, which we parliamentarians have proposed, worked on, reworked, leading to a drafting that involves real progress towards the confidence that we all want to show to health professionals. This is also an opportunity for us to thank them once again for their daily, intense commitment for more than a year now. I repeat, this text brings us together: it corresponds to the ambitious, unprecedented approach of the Ségur de la santé, whose aim it aims to achieve several non-financial aspects, much expected of professionals. It complements the provisions of Ségur as reflected in the latest law on the financing of social security – compensation for hospital staff, investments for the hospital –, in the recently published ordinances, or in the announcements of recent days. By submitting this bill to the expedited procedure, we wanted to mean that we were measuring the expectation of concrete answers and the urgency of improving the daily lives of caregivers. There is a strong political will in this area, which we share, and which has enabled us to complete this text in less than six months. The Ségur de la santé highlighted the need for a more medicalized and flexible governance of institutions. On this subject, like the others, my proposal for a law is directed towards a fundamental objective: to restore room for caregivers. It will, inter alia, strengthen the role of the Service and the Head of Service, diversify the composition of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and reaffirm the role of paramedical staff, including health professionals. The quality of life at work for caregivers will be improved through the development of a governance and management project. Our system will also evolve towards a better integration of human beings through the support of health students, the managerial training programme for positions of responsibility, awareness of gender equality issues and psychosocial risks. Finally, we will vigorously fight against the sometimes scandalous drifts of the medical interim, since the legislative provisions that came into force in 2016 are still insufficiently enforced, because they are difficult to enforce. Colleagues, this bill also brings us together around its measures to simplify and improve access to care. I am thinking of the simplification and transversality that we are putting in place by providing for the development of cooperation protocols, which will be a real step forward for our territories. I am also thinking of the creation of the digital platform MyParcoursHandicap.gouv.fr in order to simplify the administrative path of the people concerned, or the inclusion of the service of access to care in the pact of refoundation of emergencies, dear to my colleague Thomas Mesnier. Finally, this bill is forward-looking and I know that we are also coming together to expand the skills of some professionals – including midwives, but also occupational therapists, speech therapists, massage therapists, pharmacists and biologists. These advances pave the way for an essential reflection to rethink the future of the health professions. While the creation of intermediate medical professions could not eventually be included in the bill, I believe that providing health professionals with an opportunity to evolve and enrich their mission remains a major challenge for the transformation of our health system. As such, a report will have to be submitted to Parliament on the establishment and deployment of medical assistants in advanced practice, the aim of which is twofold: to open up the health professions and to promote better access to care. This report should also make it possible to reflect on the opening of access to the exercise in advanced practice to specialized nurses, such as anaesthetist nurses; the role of this profession deserves to be more recognized and valued. The passage of this bill is just a stone to the building that we want to build in order to thoroughly reshape our health care system. It is part of the continuation of the "My Health 2022" strategy, which we have been working tirelessly since the beginning of the legislature, and complements the financial provisions for salary upgrading and investments of the Ségur de la santé. Ladies and gentlemen, we must gather around the vote on this text: it is indeed time to put more trust in caregivers by simplifying their practices, breaking down professions and giving them more recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u13	This has nothing to do with our debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u14	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We must come together because this law sets the stage for a health system in which every professional finds his place to better treat our fellow citizens tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u15	In the general debate, Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u16	More than a year ago, as the covid-19 epidemic began to hit our country as it was raging all over the world, the French applauded health workers every night at twenty o'clock in the balconies and gardens. Today, these staff are facing an equally difficult situation for the third time, and it can be assumed that the hospital will unfortunately not emerge unscathed. From this rostrum, I want to greet each of these women and men who respond in all circumstances, at times when each of us feels fragile and vulnerable. France will soon reach the figure of 100,000 deaths of the covid-19. On 12 March 2020, in his address to the French, the President of the Republic made words that we could easily take back. He said in particular: "My dear compatriots, tomorrow we will have to learn the lessons of the moment we are going through, to question the model of development in which our world has been engaged for decades and which reveals its flaws in the open.... What this pandemic already reveals is that free health without conditions of income, career or profession, our welfare state is not costs or burdens but valuable assets, essential assets when destiny strikes. Then he added: "Health has no price. » Unfortunately, as expected, political preferences are re-emerging at the time of choice. Emmanuel Macron did not stop the deadly policy of bed closures or hospital groups. For example, Bichat and Beaujon hospitals, whose eventual merger would entail the removal of 400 hospital beds, i.e. a 30% reduction in capacity. As a result of the restructuring, nursing and nursing posts will be abolished in pneumonology at the university hospital centre – CHU – in Lille, despite the epidemic of covid-19. In 20 years, France has lost 100,000 beds in hospital, including 7400 in the first two years of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium. Emmanuel Macron has not stopped the movement of the savings required at the hospital since apart from the exceptional measures linked to the crisis of the covid-19, the bottom trajectory still targets the planned savings of 800 million euros. At the World Trade Organisation – WTO – and with the support of the European Union, Emmanuel Macron urged France to refuse the lifting of patents that would make the vaccine the common good of humanity. The World Health Organization – WHO – is demanding it, however, in order to produce vaccines everywhere without the constraints of the market and without the thirst for profit of the major pharmaceutical laboratories. The lifting of patents would allow the vaccine portfolio to be expanded at a time when the vaccine campaign is skating all the more because of uncertainties regarding the AstraZeneca and Johnson p; vaccines. While France pays considerable sums for its research, our flagship Sanofi abolishes 400 posts in this field, but pays 4 billion euros of dividends to its shareholders. Emmanuel Macron also did not wish to finance the experiments of the Institut Pasteur in Lille for the repositioning of a molecule aimed at designing a treatment against covid-19. It was a private investor, in this case the LVMH group, who had to handle it. Emmanuel Macron did not follow up on our proposal to establish in France a public center of the medicine to group together the research and production of the molecules essential to our health sovereignty, at a time when France does not even produce Doliprane. The list could continue, and unfortunately it is very long. Long admired as one of the best in the world, our health care system has deteriorated considerably in a few years under the blows of successive neoliberals and their perpetual will to compete, market and reduce public spending. Our hospitals, which have been put to the extreme test, are holding only thanks to the absolute dedication of the personnel mobilized before the start of the pandemic to demand additional resources. The hospital managed as a company, health as a commodity, privatization and fiscal austerity, all this weighs heavily on the degradation of this precious asset. Our nurses, among the least well paid of the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – have often had to resort to self-organisation in the face of an off-ground technocracy unable to plan anything. They even had to wear overblouses made of garbage bags, in the world's sixth economic power! A big country like France will have long missed equipment as common as a piece of paper with two elastics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In short, our health care system needs to be repaired from one end to the next. Today, the priority must be an ambitious plan to encourage the 180,000 people who have left the health field to return. This bill is intended to implement the commitments made during the Secur de la santé. Despite some progress that we can welcome, it is insufficient reparation – and this is an opportunity to remind you, Secretary of State, that there are many forgotten Ségur, especially in the medical and social sector. We are concerned about two changes made by the Senate: the addition of an article allowing fees to be exceeded in health facilities and the deletion of section 10, which allowed for better regulation of medical acting. In the end, even if we support a number of its provisions, we will vote against this text because of the articles on increasing mutualisation, which facilitate the establishment of local hospital groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u19	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u20	For more than a year, our health care system has been energized by an ongoing health crisis. Arriving in the crisis weakened by years of austerity, with an ONDAM – national goal of sickness spending – compressed to every social security budget, caregivers must always do with the means of the edge. They are exhausted and have to compensate for more work and by the culture of debugging, while resignations are increasing in the public hospital. This failure is also that of the Government, Secretary of State: you have been caught up in the real and you are now out of date! The occupancy rate of critical care beds reached 113 per cent at the national level, with 5838 people in resuscitation on 11 April, a level never reached during the second wave. But everything is under control, according to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u21	We can see it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u22	The Government reiterates that it has learned from its mistakes. How to believe it, when this bad sequence gives the impression to every French or French person to be the main character embodied by Bill Murray in the film Un jour sans fin? The inadequate catch-up, oblivious measures – including medical and social staff – and unequal measures taken in the framework of the Ségur de la santé in July 2020, in terms of remuneration, hiring and beds, seem to be derisory in view of the current health situation. Beds are still missing; There is always a shortage of staff to operate them. Worse, closures and restructuring continue in some institutions, in the name of the indiscriminate rationalization of public health spending. Your foot does not fit in the slipper of vair, the real one does not fit into your box.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u23	The real is more than fiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u24	So, how do you trust the 10200 bed resuscitation lens? From the beginning, you apply the precepts of "toyotics", with a tight flow management of hospital resources that is done at the price of massive deprogramming of care in surgery, orthopaedics or in paediatric emergencies in particular. You are even proposing to pursue this austerity policy for the next five years, as reflected in the stability programme transmitted this week to the European Commission. In your view, the solution is to cut public spending again and again, at a time when the need for massive state intervention has never been so strong in terms of health and solidarity. In this context, the text presented as the organizational component of the Ségur de la santé is not the answer: it brings its stone to the logic of deregulation. The first part of the text thus undertakes a reorganization of the competences of the medical professions and a development of advanced practice, which is doubted that they alone can respond to the context of shortage of medical resources. However, we are in favour of the recognition of qualifications and trades. You should also make it possible to benefit the anaesthetist nurses who have graduated from the state, who are strongly mobilized throughout the country, because for them this law misses the check; This is all the more important given the tribute that is required of them to mount the resuscitation structures that we need. Secretary of State, get them. Other measures include making the rules for the recruitment of hospital practitioners more flexible by freeing themselves from the usual procedures, without ensuring better coverage of health needs. For the public hospital, you offer little or at least the same recipes. If some measures go in the right direction, such as opening up hospital governance to new actors or giving doctors back prerogatives in the organisation of services, others risk prolonging hospital malaise. You are planning a number of measures aimed at strengthening the power of local hospital groups, without any assessment of their usefulness and often contributing to hospital restructuring or pooling of resources at the expense of small hospitals. We will start work on this in the next few days within the Social Accounts Assessment and Audit Mission. You also make it mandatory to set up a managerial component in each hospital, thus continuing the introduction of private management rules in the public health service – these same logics of profitability that have been denounced for so many years by the healthcare staff because they lead to a loss of meaning on the ground in everyday life and to the dehumanization of care, seen above all as a tariffed act. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] In the end, this text gives an impression of DIY. Its measures will probably not change anything about hospital ill-being, the challenge of medical desertification or the shortcomings in health democracy. So you won't be surprised if, if you don't see any real improvements in our health care system, Members of our group are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u25	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u26	This afternoon we are looking at the bill to improve the health system through the trust and simplification brought by our colleague Stéphanie Rist, whom I thank for his commitment and his work. At the end of a legislative process that has given rise to lively debates, we have to decide on a balanced text, enriched by parliamentarians, aimed at providing pragmatic responses to the expectations of healthcare professionals, which I welcome for their unwavering commitment to patients. Reforming our health care system and improving the health care profession is the promise of Ségur de la santé. This bill is in line with these commitments with a main motivation, that of strengthening the cooperation, coordination and fluidity of the work of professionals and journeys in our care system. The proposed measures have been drawn up in a concerted approach, on the basis of a careful listening by representatives of the actors on the ground. They will have a concrete impact, as close as possible to the field, and in the daily lives of healthcare professionals and patients. One of the strong ambitions of the reform is to change the professions and to better recognize those who care for us. We want to show them our confidence and facilitate access to care for patients. On the basis of the proposals made to the National Assembly and the Senate, article 2 originally devoted to midwives has greatly enriched itself. The text now includes eleven articles concerning several paramedical professions. We extend midwives' ability to prescribe, allow them to direct their patients to specialists and give them the opportunity to be designated as referent midwives. In addition, we extend the scope of prescription for massage therapists and occupational therapists in order to strengthen their skills and to fluidize the path of patients. Finally, we open vaccination to pharmacists in indoor pharmacies and medical biologists to improve the immunization coverage of patients and caregivers. As we know, all these concrete advances are very much expected by professionals. The other important focus of this legislation is the agility of health facilities to give new life to the hospital. We are facilitating the creation of posts within local hospital groups and simplifying the procedure for recruiting hospital practitioners. A report will also address the issue of the pay gap between medical careers in the various hospital sectors – public, private and private – because we know that this is an attractive issue. This bill also aims to create more participatory and flexible governance in health institutions so that it is better adapted to the realities of the field – one of the lessons learned from the health crisis. This topic has been the subject of many discussions which have led to innovative measures, including those aimed at experimenting with alternative ways of organizing governance and involving caregivers in decision-making, including on certain investments. In further reading, the National Assembly's Social Affairs Committee also made the choice of re-establishing several provisions questioned by the Senate. It restored the possibility of opening the Executive Board of health facilities to health care staff representatives, health students and users, as well as the inclusion of a managerial component and a social component in the establishment project. It has also reintroduced one of the flagship articles of the bill to combat the drifts of the medical interim on which our minister, Olivier Véran, carried out a pioneering work. In addition, we have adopted provisions to more effectively control the irregular accumulation of activities. Finally, with regard to the organisation of health facilities, we have chosen, through an amendment in public session, to strengthen the collaboration between the head of service and the health framework, but also between doctors and paramedics, through the medical project or the shared medical-care project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u27	They do it for themselves: they don't need a law for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u28	In addition, this text initiates a reflection on new professions, notably through the mission entrusted to the orders of doctors and nurses and a request for a report on the practice of advanced practices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Better recognition of health professionals, better coordination and easier access to care for patients are the objectives of this bill. As it wishes these advances to materialize, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u29	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u30	We have come to the end of the laborious process of examining this bill that does not restore confidence – nor does it lead to simplification. Tabled on October 22, 2020, it was rejected in new reading by the Senate after multiple rewrites and numerous adaptations. In front of these more than fifteen articles with disparate provisions and content without a guideline, one would almost forget its primary purpose! According to the explanatory memorandum, the aim was to modernize the health system and improve the daily lives of caregivers and the care of patients. On this point, in previous readings, we expressed our disappointment, given the challenges revealed by the health crisis. Despite the proposals we made to the Assembly and the contributions of the Senate, some of which were granted by the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u32	... the final text is always marked by structural weaknesses and a distance from the problems of the territory. Besides, he ignores the outpatient area too much. Certain provisions resulting from the convergence of the two assemblies certainly enjoy our agreement. This is the case, for example, for midwives, biologists and pharmacists. With regard to hospital governance, clarification was made between the function of head of department and that of head of department. Note also the continued designation of a disability referent in each health facility. If we support the commendable fight against the abuse of medical acting, we share the doubts expressed by the Senate about the limits of a review of the legality of the interim expenditure by the public accountant, which will be carried out at the end of the latter's commitment: attention will have to be paid to the manner in which it is exercised. With regard to the territorial reorganization of the provision of hospital care, we had denounced – and this is a general criticism of the health actors – the attribution to the support institution of the GHT...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u33	Yes, there are GHTs that are a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u34	... of a recruitment competence on behalf of a party institution, and wished to make the territorial health project a decisive instrument in structuring the provision of care. As far as the medical establishment project is concerned, the improvement we wanted was to involve not only the members of the medical establishment committee, but also the members of the nursing and rehabilitation and medico-technical committee in its design. What explanation, Madam rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, can you give to the telescoping of the parliamentary debate caused by the publication, at the end of March, of two of the eleven ordinances which the law on the organization and transformation of the health system has authorized the Government to adopt, a law which now seems to us to be in complete contrast with the crisis that we are going through? The first objective is twofold: to deepen the integration of institutions within the GHT and to strengthen the medicalisation of governance; The second concerns the attractiveness of hospital careers: it modifies the categories of medical personnel that may be recruited by public health institutions, adapts the implementation of the non-competition clause and relaxes the system of cumulation of activities as well as the conditions for the exercise of intra-hospital liberal activity. Mr Secretary of State, the rather casual method that you have adopted is for us a sign of contempt for the organisation of legislative work. As honourable senators have understood, this is why they rejected the text by adopting the question in advance. All of this deprives some of our proposals of meaning and scope. Away from the hopes born of the Ségur de la santé, in contrast to the lessons of the health crisis, your bill is once again a regrettable missed opportunity. Yet it is urgent to be up to the continuous mobilization of doctors, hospital staff,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u35	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u36	...that everyone applauded every night a year ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u37	Everyone forgot it today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u38	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Tomorrow, it'll be too late. If we do not act now, the French hospital will remain ill of its bureaucracy. This text, however, leaves us with a taste for incompleteness: too many of its provisions raise our opposition as they aroused the opposition of senators. We are sorry to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u39	Oh, that's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u40	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u41	We are here a new and final time to vote on the bill by our colleague Stéphanie Rist, which aims to translate the non-financial measures of the Ségur de la santé. From the first reading last autumn until today, this text will have been deeply enriched thanks to the work of the members of both chambers, on all benches. It has made it possible to adjust and amend several devices which could give rise to questioning or even treachery. The upper house has decided to oppose the previous question in order to reject the text adopted on new reading by our assembly without even considering it: we take note of it. Let this definitive reading not hold, the Dem group addresses it with a voluntarist and global vision as it has always done throughout the rich debates around this text, and animated by the same spirit that has lived in it since the beginning of the legislature, especially when it looked at the "my health 2022" strategy. We would like to welcome the progress made. First of all, there is the extension of the field of competence of midwives, particularly with regard to prescriptions. It was necessary to relax their statute of limitations in the light of their expertise and the reality of the needs of care in the field. We will then highlight the fight against the excesses of remuneration caused by a medical interim who has only grown in recent years. If this tool proved useful, it was necessary to be able to impose safeguards on it. Under the provisions of article 10, public health institutions will now be better equipped to deal with abuses arising from this practice. Let me also go back to the great progress achieved in the Chamber during the new reading: the participation of parliamentarians with an advisory voice on the supervisory board of hospitals in their constituency. I would like once again to thank the rapporteur and the Government for having listened to the many deputies who strongly defended this measure of health democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u43	On hospital operations, our group also welcomes the re-establishment of the position of Head of Service in hospital centres. It took more than ten years after the law "Hôpital, patient, health and territory", known as the HPST law, to realize how essential this function was to the proper functioning of our hospitals. Finally, article 1 raised many questions. Initially, he proposed to create an intermediate profession; It now provides for a request for a report, which we believe is more relevant. The ex nihilo creation of a new occupational category deserved more reflection and an analysis of the existing one. In parallel with the report on which the Government will have to lay down, a parliamentary mission which I will have the honour to report to the Committee on Social Affairs will begin in the coming days and will be fully interested in it – I thank my colleagues in the committee, as well as its chairman, for their confidence. Thanks to the rapporteur's listening, most of the shadows remaining in the text have been clarified. Nevertheless, it still has a few bitternesses. The first relates to private health facilities of collective interest (PSIC). As you know, we are deeply committed to equal treatment between health facilities. Our health care system is based on three pillars: the public, the non-profit private and the private. While section 4d introduced by the Senate is in the right direction, it concerns only a minority of private non-profit institutions that operate with liberal practitioners. It therefore does not regulate the situation of the vast majority of ESPICs, which operate with employees. We regret that the amendments we have proposed have been rejected. I am convinced that this unequal situation requires a speedy solution. We have heard the Minister's response and his commitment to the upgrading of the medical staff in these institutions. Another point is that we regret that our proposal to include university representatives in the appointment of CHU Heads of Service has not been accepted. However, this was a common sense measure, aimed at effectively strengthening interactions between hospitals and universities. In addition, there is always the question of the status of Auxiliary Nurses or Advanced Practice Nurses: our committee and our assembly must continue their work to recognize their specificities. There is also a need to address access to health care and medical desertification, for which the Democratic Group and our colleague Philippe Vigier have put forward concrete proposals. Finally, beyond the proposal for a law on the financial aspects of Segur, questions remain about the scale of hospital practitioners, but I believe that they will be received by the minister very soon. [[Applause on the banks of the groupsDemetLaREM. – Ms the rapporteur also applied]] Our group will support this bill so that its most emblematic measures can come into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u44	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u45	At the end of the legislative shuttle, the reluctance we expressed at the first reading of the bill to improve and simplify the health system through trust and simplification was not removed. While our health care system remains under unprecedented pressure, this text, which intended to transpose the non-financial measures of the Ségur de la santé, does not meet its objectives and disappoints the expectations formulated in this framework, while failing to comply with its specifications: to trust and simplify. But its first failure remains, above all, the total absence of evaluation. We are invited to vote blindly on the choices made by the Government in the framework of the Secur de la Santé, without any legal certainty through an opinion of the Council of State or an impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u47	Thus, none of the implications for our health care system of adopting the provisions of this text will be analysed. It is a very bad way, in a context of health tension, to add such uncertainty. The third wave of the epidemic almost took away the French health care system, which has held in some regions only at the cost of a large number of deprogramming surgical procedures, resulting in loss of chances for patients, while revealing the lack of hospital capacity. In this context, this bill does not meet the material and human needs of the care system. Its provisions, with a focus on the autonomy of hospitals and local hospital groups, further weaken the national public health service. This is why a majority of trade unions and health professional associations oppose the text. We were also many on these benches to regret the lack of ambition and the unpreparation of it, which has been the subject of multiple rewrites, often last minute. This was the case with regard to the proposal for the creation of an intermediate medical profession between nurses and doctors, which was originally included in the text and which led to the lifting of shields on the part of professionals. The confusion in the preparation of your proposals has also been felt through the multiple demands and inquiries that we have received from all health professions. Despite Segur, the unease and bitterness of many caregivers remain palpable and I will not even mention here the situation of those who have been forgotten by the agreements. The most important point of our discussions, however, remains the case of state-qualified anesthetist nurses, a perfect example of an incomprehensible blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u48	That's right, we have to do something!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u49	In the course of the discussions, the Government remained closed with regard to their recognition – based on their core competencies – as medical auxiliaries practising in advanced practice, while they fulfilled all the conditions for access to the body and the purpose of the proposed law was, inter alia, to enhance the paramedical staff of the health system. Over the shuttles, we have tried to change your mind, and we regret that our efforts have been unsuccessful. Especially since IADE, which has often been at the forefront of resuscitation services, has made a significant contribution to the health effort over the past year and it would have been only fair to grant them this statutory recognition for which they meet the criteria both nationally and internationally. Two weeks ago, our colleague Alain David again questioned the Minister of Health on this subject, on behalf of our group, on the occasion of questions to the Government: Mr.Véran replied that he wished to change their remuneration and the framework of their activities. However, the salary scales for the hospital public service were published yesterday, following the Ségur de la santé. IADE represent the professionals whose wages are the least revalued, with an increase of only 13 euros per month! The principle of the Government submitting a report to Parliament, adopted in the bill, is no longer valid. We urge you, if you have not been able to maintain Article 1 bis AA, that trade unions and professional organizations be received very quickly by your ministry, in order to start a consultation on their legitimate claims, because their anger is great and fair. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In conclusion, nothing in this text is able to cure the main ills of the hospital which constitute the historical absence of public health policy in France, the advent since the law of 2009, known as the Bachelot law, of an industrial model of the hospital and the forced budgets voted without taking into account health needs and applied by means of activity pricing (T2A). That is why the Socialist and related group will vote definitively against.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u50	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u51	If anything bad is good, the health crisis will have allowed a new look to the world of health. Our health care system, already very fragile, has held only thanks to the courage and unwavering investment of caregivers. It was no longer thoughtable not to listen to their demands. However, it took an unprecedented health crisis and more than a year of strikes in emergency services and hospitals to finally apply the salary revalorisation of professions whose skills, technicality and societal role can no longer be ignored. This improvement resulting from the Ségur de la santé is an essential step which we welcome, and which must be accompanied by all that is required by the gravity of the situation of the French health care system, so that it regains its prestige from the past and its relevance to our time and society. If the road is still long, it is clear that we are moving in the right direction. At a time when our country is going through a third containment, we cannot deny that the health sector conditions all the others. That will still be the case tomorrow, and that must remain so. Even if the hope generated by the deployment of vaccines is enormous and if we end up getting out of the health crisis, let us not lose sight of the fact that our duty is to break with the leadership that has only weakened the French health system year after year. This fight is essential and deserves to be given real political will and the means necessary for its success. The reforms that we are bringing to the health system, therefore to France as a whole, must be tangible, based on the reality of the ground, on those without which it would not exist: the caregivers. They have observed the health community with remarkable attention and realism. In each branch, they have proposed changes to restore attractiveness to their professions, which is sorely lacking. Therefore, in the face of an announced text such as the implementation of the Ségur concertation, the expectations were considerable. I welcome the work done by our colleague Stéphanie Rist and thank her for changing the text during the hearings and debates in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u52	That's right! She did a hell of a gymnastic on article 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u53	More generally, I would like to stress the considerable enrichment which has benefited the text in successive readings, in particular thanks to the amendments put forward by our group. In particular, we welcome the abandonment of the project to create an intermediate medical profession, replaced by a request for a report from the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs on the reengineering of the training of paramedical professionals and on the development of advanced practices. Because they offer important opportunities for evolution and transversality, they are highly expected by health professionals and constitute the level on which our health system can, and must, be reborn. In terms of the evolution of advanced practices, however, we regret that the one proposed by the Senate concerning anesthetist nurses could not be endorsed during the course of the bill. But our group knows that it will be at the heart of the IGAS report and, without wanting to go into angelism, we are confident of this recognition and of this statutory valorisation. This is necessary because, just as important as salary revalorisation, the consideration of professions at their fair value is essential to make them attractive to those occupations that are sorely understaffed. With a view to improving the care of patients in the territories and ensuring equal access to care, the Action Together group also supported the deletion of Article 7 which, in a uniform manner, required the establishment of a joint management through the merger of hospitals belonging to a territorial hospital group in the event of a vacancy of a director's post. The binding aspect of this measure was, for us, a red line that should not be crossed. Our group also welcomes the creation of a national platform for caregivers. Finally, the bill contains significant progress in favour of health professionals, which we would like to welcome. In particular, we welcome the expansion of the activities of midwives, massage therapists, occupational therapists, speech therapists and pharmacists; the fact that these provisions have been extended to other professions that only midwives are to be emphasized. These developments represent a further step in the right recognition and accountability of professionals, involving them more and making these professions more attractive. The supervision of the medical interim, to mention only this measure, is also one of the very positive signals of the text. Overall, the Action Together Group wishes to highlight the progress made in the proposed law, in particular with regard to the simplification of the organisation and the evolution of the scope of competence of certain carers. This text, which is part of the continuity of the Secur de la santé, should not, however, be regarded as an end in itself but rather as a first step, a stepping stone for launching the necessary process for a thorough reform of the health system. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, the road is still a long and complex one. But I am convinced that it is through this kind of text that we will build together, step by step, a fairer, more efficient health system that can meet the challenges of tomorrow. As you understand, we will vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u54	I would like to inform you that on the vote on the whole bill, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and Socialistes et affiliés of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u55	Before I come to the heart of the bill, I would like to highlight the measures taken by the Ségur de la santé, which have rightly improved the remuneration of health workers, but also to invest in a system of underfunded care for many years – we must recognize the positive points. Having said that, we remain surprised and sorry that, despite our numerous arrests, so many people remain forgotten by the Segur. We cannot but deplore the fact that the health workers, nurses, the care workers of the territorial public service (FPT) have been excluded from this policy – I have already asked you several times about this. In addition to having to pass regional competitions on securities which have nothing to do with their profession, to have a number of posts opened in total inapplicable to the number of vacant posts, thus impeding the tenure and retention of agents, the caregivers of the FPT are subject to severe wage discrimination. These inepties create a vicious cycle of degraded work that results in a real haemorrhage of personnel in territorial EHPADs. There is an urgent need to simplify access to health professions in the territorial public service in order to make it more attractive. With regard to the care and health professions, I welcome the announced increase in pay for home nursing services (DHS) personnel. Nevertheless, departments will have to participate in this increase, without compensation from the apriori State. Do you intend to take your decisions and accompany the departments? Moreover, and this remains a real disappointment, nothing has been done to strengthen the jobs of disability. Moreover, we look forward to a major law on autonomy in order to upgrade these professions and strengthen the support of people with disabilities. Can you tell us when the self-government bill will be ready? Turning back to the bill, we welcome the measures taken in favour of midwives, but consider that the upgrading of their responsibilities should be accompanied by the upgrading of their status. If, like you, we are committed to providing more flexibility to hospital governance, we believe that the Senate's drafting – which the majority has removed – was much more satisfactory! Like the many provisions confirmed in the Committee on Social Affairs, which were deleted by way of government amendments at the sitting. Unfortunately, once again, this is not a case of parliamentary work. Trust in the territories is not decreed, it is won. In the area of health, this must be done through a regionalisation of the budget. The purpose of my speech is not to shoot at the ambulance, because we are aware of the unprecedented and difficult situation. Nevertheless, the deconcentrated administration symbolized by regional health agencies (RHAs) has clearly shown its limitations. We propose that the relevant powers be transferred to the regions. In the Vosges, as in many territories, we are suffering from medical desertification and, unfortunately, once again, your text does not make any progress on this subject. One in ten French nationals does not have a treating physician and 40% of general practitioners no longer accept new patients. I'm not even talking about getting an appointment with a specialist, who may sometimes require a wait of several months or even a year! We therefore propose that, depending on the needs identified locally, medical students who have trained in the territory should remain there for three to five years. Note that the numerus apertus, supposed to increase the number of medical students, does not yield the expected results: on the contrary, it concentrates the increase in the Paris universities already provided. Finally, too many measures adopted by the Senate have been removed. We deeply regret it – I am thinking in particular of those concerning speech therapists and nurses in advanced practice. This text, which aims to improve the health system, is in addition to the legislation on the financing of social security and the previous reform, enacted just two years ago, whose effects we do not yet feel clearly. It therefore tends to fuel legislative inflation and to pile up ever more standards. In conclusion, we consider that the bill lacks vision, particularly regarding inequalities in access to care and medical desertification. It will not reap the fruits of the parliamentary shuttle, as the majority has worked hard to remove the provisions voted by our honourable senators. That is why the IDU and independent group will not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u56	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u57	Almost a year ago, while our health care system was facing the first wave of covid-19, the announcement of a Health Segur intended to solve years of disorganization and underinvestment had aroused much hope. A year later, we are about to pass a bill, which is supposed to reflect the non-budgetary measures of the Ségur de la Santé, even though the epidemic of covid-19 still weighs as much on health workers. After a year of fierce struggle, the latter are beyond exhaustion. From the beginning, they have been fighting with self-denial – but for what result, if not the feeling that history repeats itself? It is little to say that health workers expected much from the Ségur consultations, particularly concerning budgetary measures and salary adjustments. We adopted these in the latest bill on the financing of social security; They are important – we recognize it – but already they made forgotten ones. The Government tried to correct the shot – it was necessary. The latest advances thus concern home helpers and the upgrading of the salary scales of hospital care workers – we welcome them, but we must not stop there. There are still forgotten Ségur: private social and medico-social sectors, or specialized educators for adults with disabilities. Regularly, these professionals are mobilizing to finally think about them. Non-budgetary measures have also been forgotten, and cause frustration, all the more so as hope is immense. Of course, there are positive steps and progress; The Libertés et Territoires Group voted for them and welcomed them. Some have been adopted both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, proof that consensus has been reached on certain points – I think, for example, the extension of certain skills to health professionals, especially midwives, or the internal organisation of the hospital, which can better adapt to local specificities. Other provisions usefully complemented the original proposal: the designation of disability referents in health facilities, the designation of a reference midwife, or the prescription of technical aids by occupational therapists. However, it is acknowledged that these advances are still timid in the face of the challenges. Above all – and our group insists on this point – let us keep on constantly expanding the skills of certain health professions, without ever improving their training or their remuneration: it is counterproductive and unfair – I am thinking in particular of midwives. Finally, a regret remains with regard to advanced practice. Our group would have liked to go further – anesthetist nurses, in particular, should have benefited from the status of medical assistants practising in advanced practice. Other measures appear to be completely incongruous with the realities on the ground. How can we explain, if not, that since the examination of the text, we have been asked on all sides by many professions, who want to assert their claims? Although the bill is presented as the translation of the Ségur de la Santé, it has clearly given rise to insufficient consultation. Too many actors, directly concerned, point to a lack of consultation and the resulting gaps. Two flagship measures were removed, as they did not meet the needs of stakeholders. The same applies to the article on the attractiveness of the position of hospital practitioner: nothing is proposed, in concrete terms, to streamline and improve recruitment – our proposals in this area have unfortunately been rejected. Worse, by entrusting the decision to the supporting establishment of the hospital group of territory, one gives the impression of further distancing the governance, while all the actors expect more proximity. This bill has followed a sinuous path. Unfortunately, there is still a long way to go for our hospital and our health care system to be well; Today, they are more vulnerable than ever. The Senate's rejection of the text is understandable, and its criticism of its heteroclity and lack of vision of the text is legitimate. As a result, the Liberties and Territories Group will abstain. We are calling for an ambitious change in course for our entire health care system by the next Social Security Funding Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u58	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u59	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u60	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 142 Number of votes cast 137 Absolute majority 69 For adoption 95 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u61	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u62	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u63	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects (No. 3875, 3995).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u64	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with amendment No. 1466 to article 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u65	Identical amendments Nos 1466 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho, 1602 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 4914 by Mr Benoit Simian, aiming at the deletion of Article 47, are defended. Mr Lionel Causse, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters III to V of Title IV, spoke to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u66	I am pleased to begin consideration of these numerous amendments on Article 47 on soil artificialisation. First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues Julien Aubert and André Chassaigne for the comments they made last night. They have acknowledged the progress that has been made in the special committee, and I have no doubt that there will be others here, my objective being, of course, to take account of everyone's views. This article and the following are very important because our country consumes about 28,000 hectares each year, equivalent to three times the surface of the city of Paris. As the population does not grow so much, this shows that we have a problem with the planning of our spaces in our country. I have wished, with the administrators of the National Assembly that I thank, with the minister and her teams, that I also thank, and with my collaborators, to take into account the 1500 amendments that have been tabled. We have read and studied all these amendments, on which we will give opinions which will take account of two points which I believe are essential. First, we must ensure that our goal of reducing the consumption of natural agricultural and forestry areas is achieved within ten years and that our 2050 target – the famous zero net artificialisation – can also be achieved. Secondly, local elected officials, who are decision-makers and responsible for land-use planning and closer to land-use projects, must be able to carry out the necessary territorial planning for the success of these projects. This is the purpose of sections 49 et seq., which are intended to accompany them in order to ensure that everyone is at the forefront of this important issue. This is an important issue because we are going to get out of some paradigms. We are all aware that we can no longer continue to make urban sprawl as we do today, given our food sovereignty and the challenges we know about forests and natural areas, that is, biodiversity. Like many of you here, I have been mayor, and like many of you I have made urban sprawl, because that is often the easiest and cheapest thing to do. For many years, we have given way too much to this habit. These articles will allow us to see the future differently, to reshape our territories, to reinvigorate the existing one and to redo the city over the city. This goal is ambitious, but I know that many elected officials as well as many professionals – I am thinking of planners, architects, planners – are already in this state of mind and philosophy, and I have no doubt that we will all be at the meeting. [[Applause on the banks of the LaReGroup and on several banksof groupsDemetAgirens]] Of course, I am against these amendments to delete the article, because I deeply believe that the articles that we will continue to enrich in the sitting thanks to the work of the Minister and her collaborators, as well as the collaborators of the National Assembly, will make it possible to prepare the future of the development of our beautiful territory, France, by protecting what is most important for us, namely the agricultural and forestry areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u67	The Deputy Minister for Housing has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u68	We are starting this chapter on the fight against artificialisation and soil protection. This is a very important moment in the consideration of this bill, because it is the first time that we have fully recognized the value of soils in terms of ecology, the value of soils for carbon capture and their positive role in the carbon cycle, but also the value of soils for biodiversity, for water, for nature, for all of us in general. For the first time, we move from the notion of sobriety of land, which was already an important notion but which simply meant consuming less, to a notion of global balance. It is a matter of moving towards the goal of zero net artificialization, of not artificializing more than we can: we will continue to artificialize because we need it, while returning to nature as much as we artificialize. This is a goal we set ourselves for 2050. Section 47 is the cornerstone, the first very important point in this chapter that gives direction and vision. And because we work both in the long-term – 2050 – and in the medium-term – in the ten-year horizon, we put the first principle of a halving. This reduction of half, we put it on the consumption of natural and agricultural spaces because we need a transition between the current definition known, which allows us to move forward, and the definition of tomorrow, which will arrive a little later in this chapter and which will require both clarification and appropriation. This article is therefore both the Article of ambition and the Article of implementation. Finally, I would like to reply to President Chassaigne and Julien Aubert who spoke yesterday. There is no fatality to the objective defined by this article to increase rivalry and fighting between metropolises and rurality,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u69	You favor metropolises!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u70	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... there is no fatality that this increases a territorial geographical divide. On the contrary, all the following articles – Articles 48 and 49 – which operationally set out this objective, defend territorialisation and territorial balance. It is an opportunity for a new, more balanced development, for each of the scales of our territories, from the great ruralness to the periphery, from the medium-sized cities to the metropolises. This is, in fact, another way of designing spatial planning, of designing urban planning. This Article 47 is essential in its ambition, in its scope, in its declination. I am therefore very opposed to the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u71	I have before me three amendments, Nos 894, 1603 and 1604, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 894 and 1603 are identical. Amendments Nos 894 by Mr Pierre Vatin, 1603 and 1604 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u72	These amendments call for territorialisation through territorial coherence schemes (SCOTs) in order to achieve the objective of zero net artificialisation. Section 47 is a programming article whose territorial declination will take place in section 49. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u73	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u74	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u75	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 6843.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u76	It aims to accelerate the pace to reach the goal of zero net artificialization by 2025. The Government sets a target – 2050 – which is far too far away. He will certainly object to us that a goal by 2025 is far too close and unachievable, but we remind him that we had already argued in favour of this goal in 2018, when we examined the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agriculture and food sector, by introducing an amendment that had been rejected. So we have already lost two years, and it is now urgent to set this target at 2025. We need to know what's behind the word artificialization. We're not talking about the artificialization of soils to build hospitals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u77	There aren't many kinds of artificialization!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u78	... but to build mostly logistic warehouses, especially those of e-commerce, which will lead to an increase in road transport and will destroy jobs as is already the case today. There is an urgent need for a path consistent with the climate limits we are reaching today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u80	It is because we intend to achieve our objectives – the deadline seems to me to be in line with France's commitments and the demands of the Citizens' Convention – that we want to keep the 2050 date. The 2025 deadline you are proposing is far too premature, if only for the updating of town planning documents; It would be impossible to achieve this within such a time limit. In your summary, you say that "the equivalent of a French department is sunk in concrete every 7 years". So I invite you to review the data: 2800 hectares is, almost anything, the equivalent of an average department every twenty years. In other words, the objective suggested by your summary statement will be largely achieved with what we propose here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u82	It is not possible to increase from 280000 hectares every ten years, or 28000 per year according to the figures given by the rapporteur, to 0 in three years, if only because the law provides for a concerted decline, organised with local elected representatives in town planning documents. Good or bad artificialisation is an issue that we will have the opportunity to debate widely, but two thirds of the artificialisation in France comes from the spread of housing. We must therefore ask ourselves about the place of the individual house in relation to other forms of habitat. The warehouses of e-commerce account for only 1% of the artificialisation, so they are not the core of the subject. We need to think about how we live. We will not be able to transform it so abruptly in three years, at the risk of being in total contrast with the aspirations of the French. Very unfavourable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u83	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 109, 228, 290, 399, 806, 887, 1479, 1634, 2164, 2422, 2696, 2736, 3034, 4016, 4662 and 4748. Amendments Nos 109 by Mr Martial Saddier, 228 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 290 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, 399 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 806 by Mr Charles de Courson and 887 by Mr Pierre Vatin are being defended. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 1479.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u84	It is proposed to replace the concept of "absence of any net artificialization of the soil" with "land sobriety". This refers less to the decline; this avoids putting entire territories under bells without distinction; Above all, this prevents the inevitable litigation that such a vague and unrespectful term of the diversity of the territories will not fail to bring forth – it is blessed bread for lawyers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u85	The identical amendments No 1634 by Mrs Danielle Brulebois, 2164 by Mr Arnaud Viala, 2422 by Mr Gérard Menuel, 2696 by Mr Vincent Rolland and 2736 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet were defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3034.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u86	I'm hit, Madam Deputy Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u87	He's not the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u88	...by what you just said about how to live. You seem to believe that our fellow citizens who choose to live in a house are responsible for the artifice of the floors. You cannot caricature so those who make the choice of home. This choice can be dictated by the quality of life and the desire to offer his family space. In the context of the health crisis, living in a home is still significant. In France, this choice can be made without being accused of artificializing the soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u89	Identical amendments Nos 4016 by Mr Robin Reda, 4662 by Mr Hervé Saulignac and 4748 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u90	I do not agree with all the amendments which seek to replace the artificialisation of the soil with the sobriety of land. I am sensitive to the stakes of land sobriety. This is why the new article 49d gives the municipalities the opportunity to sign a contract of sobriety with the State. However, article 47 is programmatic in nature. Soil artificialization is a well-known concept, including by local decision-makers. In order to avoid the disputes mentioned, it is planned to set very concrete spatial consumption targets for the first ten-year period. Article 47 deals with programming, article 48 on definition and article 49 on concrete declination in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u92	Very unfavourable opinion on this series of amendments, first of all because sobriety of land is not a very legal concept. Secondly, it is a negative concept, while soil protection itself gives ground value not only in terms of constructability but also in terms of biodiversity. To continue the exchange with Mr. Bazin on the question of whether it was possible to set such a rapid and abrupt goal in 2025, I would reply no to Mr. Prud'homme, precisely because it is our model of housing that is at issue. We need to think about how we live in the territory. Everyone has the right and the opportunity to find the right way to live. Together, we will find the right way to live that meets the aspirations of families and is compatible with our ecological issues, but it will take time. That is why I support the 2050 horizon. I wanted to make sure that there was no misunderstanding between us, Mr Bazin, because perhaps we could even agree on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u93	Not with such a blurred definition and a source of litigation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u94	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 5881, 5137, 105, 200, 229, 390, 1207, 1478, 2165, 2424, 2704, 3035 and 4015, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 105, 200, 229, 390, 1207, 1478, 2165, 2424, 2704, 3035 and 4015 are identical. Amendment No 5881 by Mr Julien Aubert is being defended. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 5137.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u95	I agree with your analysis, Madam Deputy Minister, that there is a long-term reflection on how to live and on individual housing. It is also necessary to extract from a communication, now historical, towards the French on how to live. We must also reconsider the stakes of social housing, which is aimed at 70% of French people, especially in the area of habitability – we can agree on this point. The future of social housing must be placed on the agenda as a matter of priority if we are to respond to the problem of soil densification and artificialisation. Secondly, there is another problem: the devalorization of agricultural land, which is now potentially a vacuum cleaner for construction. Their value is more than fifty times lower than that of the building land. Nor, it seems to me, can it be denied that metropolitan "giga-constructions", intended for both tertiary and quaternary activities – the nature of these activities which may give rise to a difference of appreciation – also contribute to the artificialisation of the soil, since the metropolis is a centre of extraction of surplus value which encourages such a practice. In Article 47, we wish to clarify the national nature of the objective. You plan to make available tools that will allow it to decline on the ground. We must affirm the objective in political terms, as you yourself have indicated, but also in terms of responsibility – Jacobin's responsibility as opposed to that of girondism that you refuted earlier in the three rejected amendments. Artificialization is first and foremost appreciated throughout the national territory. That is the subject of the amendment. We will then come back to the local issues of the 50% reduction in artificialization target.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u96	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u97	On Amendment No 5881, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The identical amendments No. 105 by Mr Martial Saddier, 200 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 229 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 390 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 1207 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, 1478 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, 2165 by Mr Arnaud Viala, 2424 by Mr Gérard Menuel, 2704 by Mr Vincent Rolland, 3035 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 4015 by Mr Robin Reda were defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u98	They aim to clarify that the 50 % reduction target concerns the national territory. Of course, the law applies at the national level; Of course, this is a national objective, which is set out in three articles: Article 47 is a planning article; Article 48 defines artificialisation in order to integrate it into planning and planning documents; Article 49 declines programming at regional level by setting a target of halving the artificialisation of soil through regional planning, sustainable development and equality of territories (SRADDET). To reply to our colleague Wulfranc, there will be a territorialised declination, through the SCOTs and local intercommunal planning plans (PLUI).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u99	The SRADDET is not the right step!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u100	I am very committed to the logic of these articles: we define a national objective; we make tools available to local decision-makers to reach it; we decline the objective through all levels of planning and territorial reflection. We cannot do better in terms of the involvement of all our territories. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to all these amendments which I believe are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u102	Mr Wulfranc, I share the idea that social housing is an essential element in the equation, because it is affordable housing, rather located near city centres, often collective housing. The choice often arises in these terms: social housing or individual housing? housing in the city center or on the outskirts? Yes, social housing is of extremely good quality. As I recall, 70% of French people are eligible for social housing, which I defend and which will be supported in the so-called 4D law – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexation – which will soon be presented to the Council of Ministers. Returning to the amendment, I agree with the rapporteur that Article 47 applies to the national territory. It defines an ambition for the entire country, for the entire territory, which then takes place in each region, then in each SCOT or PLUI in a differentiated way. In view of the general and national ambition of the article I have just recalled, the amendments are, in my view, satisfied. I therefore ask for the withdrawal, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u103	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u104	Differentiation is not specified in Article 47, but appears later. If you agree that this is a national objective, the adoption of the amendment does not remove anything. I contest the argument that there is no need to clarify the national character. I think the more precise the law is, the clearer things are. You should have indicated that this is a national objective which can then be differentiated in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u105	I put to the vote Amendment No. 5881.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u106	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 109 Number of votes cast 97 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 19 Against 78
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u107	Amendments Nos 3036 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 5138 by Mr Stéphane Peu, which can be discussed jointly, are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u108	We have already had this discussion in committee. The fight against the artificialisation of soil, I agree, must not prevent some densification. That is a bit the meaning of these amendments. Article 47 has a programmatic vocation. We will provide answers to densification issues with sections 48 and 49, which will be addressed in the future. I call for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u110	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u111	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u112	A very quick question, Madam Deputy Minister. Let us take the very concrete case of a small house located on a large plot, in the middle of a city, in a metropolis. If a building of reasonable size is built at this site, will it be considered to be the artificialization of the soil?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u113	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u114	I'll answer you exactly, Mr. Bazin. As the text stands, the unit of measure being the parcel, the answer is no: it will not be considered as artificialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u115	Amendments Nos 1110 by Mrs Frédérique Lardet and 1274 by Mrs Carole Grandjean, which could be discussed jointly, were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u116	Amendment No 4642 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u117	Identical amendments Nos 118 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, 466 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 4018 by Mr Robin Reda, 5677 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup and 6386 by Mr Philippe Huppé, as well as Amendment No 1633 by Mrs Danielle Brulebois, which may be subject to a joint debate, are to be defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u118	They aim to reduce the rate of soil artificialisation by much less than half. I have indicated in my introductory statement that we would be against all the so-called amendments in relation to our original objectives. I am therefore against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u119	I have before me twelve amendments, Nos 26, 198, 618, 915, 3037, 3056, 3510, 3791, 4017, 5922, 1483 and 396, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 26, 198, 618, 915, 3037, 3056, 3510, 3791, 4017 and 5922 are identical. Amendments Nos 26 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 198 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 618 by Mrs Agnes Chill are being defended. I call Mr Vatin to support Amendment No. 915.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u120	Article 47 seeks to include in the law the programmatic objective of reducing the rate of artificialisation by two over the next ten years compared to the previous decade. Unfortunately, when reading the article, it appears that three concepts are used interchangeably, which do not have the same definition. In fact, only the term "artificialization" is defined by the text. The aim of the amendment is to clarify the reference point for the observation of artificialisation in relation to the last ten years, with a view to drawing up an objective diagnosis and satisfying the objective of dividing the rate of artificialisation by two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u121	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3037.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u122	[[Smile]] Defendant! Because Mr. Aubert forbids us to speak more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u123	At The Republicans, it's like in the Roman legions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u124	Amendments Nos 3056 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, 3510 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 3791 by Mr Jérôme Nury, 4017 by Mr Robin Reda, 5922 by Mr Jean Lassalle, 1483 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and 396 by Mr Marc Le Fur are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u125	The concept of space consumption is already included in the urban planning code. It is used by local elected officials and decision-makers, and has been taken over by the National Observatory for the Artificialization of Soils. We will keep it for the first decade, as long as the definition of artificialization, as set out in Article 48, is operational. I am therefore against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u126	On Article 47, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 6535 by Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux, identical amendments No 3204 by Mrs Patricia Lemoine, Mr Vincent Descoeur's 3886 and Mr Stéphane Baudu's 5460, and amendment No 1078 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, which may be subject to a joint debate, are to be defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u127	Their authors want our objective to be territorialized. However, we will discuss this when we consider articles 48 and 49; This should not be included in article 47. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u129	The same opinion as the rapporteur. First, the objective is national – that is the spirit of Article 47, as we recalled a few moments ago. Secondly, this objective will be set at different scales, regional and sub-regional, as provided for in Article 49. In my opinion, the amendments are satisfactory and I am against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u130	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u131	The Republican Group agrees with the strategy, as we have said, but wishes to introduce into the text the concept of territorial diversity and the principle of differentiation. Therefore, if you reject these amendments, we will vote against Rule 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u132	Identical amendments Nos 5747 by Mr François Pupponi and 6041 by Mrs Nadia Ramassamy are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u133	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u135	This is a very important issue: these amendments aim to define a specific trajectory for overseas departments and regions in terms of reducing soil artificialisation. We have not set a percentage for this purpose in the bill, considering that the case of these territories should be examined at a later stage, each of them being specific. I am against a uniform rate of 25%, because we must give ourselves time to define a tailor-made trajectory. That is the spirit of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u136	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 2855.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u137	In the logic of "avoid, reduce, compensate", we propose, by this amendment, that the law allow experiments to be carried out in the fight against artificialisation and to implement mechanisms of compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u139	Mr Herth, I share your concern to have compensation mechanisms in place. I know that your colleague Valérie Petit, the first signatory of this amendment, is very attached to it. However, as I recall, section 47 has a programmatic aim. We will address the issue of compensation, such as that of territorialization, when we consider article 49; We will then be able to move forward on this point, if necessary by retaining some of your amendments. I invite you to withdraw this amendment, otherwise I will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u140	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, rapporteur-general of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u141	I am making a final attempt with our colleague Julien Aubert: it would be a shame not to vote on Article 47. We certainly vote the law by amendments and articles, but the text is read globally. Overall, however, it indicates very clearly that the objective is national and that it will be territorialized at the level of each community through the SRADDET.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u142	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u143	Mr rapporteur-general, the best way to encourage the Republicans to vote on your text would be to accept some of their amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u144	I put rule 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u145	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 104 Number of votes cast 97 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 85 Against 12
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u146	We come to amendments on the additional article after Rule 47. Amendments Nos 4382 and 4383 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u147	They aim to link the issuance of building permits to the fight against artificialisation. However, we will decline the national strategy in planning documents, SRADDETs and SCOTs, and in urban planning documents, PLUs and PLUIs. The mayors will obviously have to take into account the issues of artificialisation when signing a building permit. Since the amendments are satisfied, I ask that they be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u149	In my opinion, the amendments are satisfactory: building permits will be granted according to the planning documents, depending on whether the areas in question are urban or not. It is this mechanism, provided for by law, which will allow, if necessary, to refuse a building permit; the objective of combating artificialisation cannot be invoked in itself as a ground for refusal. I too am asking for the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise I will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u150	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 2858.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u151	Under this amendment, SRADDET and SCOTs will need to detail the mechanisms to compensate for net artificialisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u153	My answer will be the same as before, my colleague: we will have this debate when we consider your amendment No 3811 to Article 49. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u155	The same opinion: compensation is dealt with in detail in Article 49. I too am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise I will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u156	Identical amendments Nos 4915 by Mr Benoit Simian and 6206 by Mr François Jolivet, which seek to delete Article 48, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u157	Amendments Nos 6844 by Mr Loïc Prud'homme, 5256 by Mrs Valérie Petit and 1607 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u158	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 4305 and 5106. Amendment No 4305 by Mr Christophe Jerretie is being defended. Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to support Amendment No. 5106.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u159	It is intended to clarify that Article 48 is intended to combat the artificialisation of soil. To this end, it tends to replace the words "protects to succeed" with the words "has as its objective".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u161	These precise amendments are in line with the article. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u162	Identical Amendments Nos 113 by Mr Martial Saddier, 292 by Mrs Émilie Bonnivard, 1487 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and 2700 by Mr Vincent Rolland are being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3040.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u163	Defended, because of the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u164	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u165	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u167	The amendments are intended to replace the concept of "combat against artificialisation" with that of "land sobriety", which is less complete. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u168	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u169	It seems to me that there is a danger: in a few years, we will be told that because of the densification, the "garden cities" are no longer considered as such. I am thinking in particular of the city of Amiens, which has as many roads as that of Lyon for only 130,000 inhabitants, but which consists mainly of houses with a garden. All garden owners could decide to merge them to create a new plot, on which one could densify the construction: this perspective is very worrying. In a few years, we will have to go back to this provision, because we will see that there are no more green spaces in the cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u170	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u171	It encourages speculation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u172	Amendment No 7148 by Mr Julien Aubert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u173	I have before me two amendments, Nos 5017 and 1609, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to support Amendment No. 5017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u174	As the upgrading of wastelands is one of the key elements in the fight against soil artificialisation, it should be made a fully-fledged objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u175	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, Amendment No 1609 is...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u176	Defended, because of the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u177	[[Smile]] You see, this time, I let you say it! What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u178	These two amendments are very interesting, but they are written in a slightly different way: since Mr Lagleize's amendment tends to include the renovation of wasteland just after the mention of urban renewal, it seems to me more appropriate. I would therefore ask Mrs Ménard to withdraw Amendment No 1609 in favour of Amendment No 5017, on which I have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u180	Same opinion. Talking about the upgrading of wastelands is important, as it is one of the essential elements in the fight against artificialisation. The interest of the concept of "net artificialization" is precisely to be able to really balance between artificialized soils and soils left to nature: if we put nature in the city, if we replant plants there, this must count positively in the balance. It is therefore a concept that will help us to develop policies of nature in the city.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u181	Mr Vatin's Amendment No 1019 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u182	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to support Amendment No. 5112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u183	I propose, in order to combat the artificialisation of the soil, that the elevation of existing buildings be systematically studied. The possibility of raising some buildings on one or two floors tends to be forgotten: one has to think about it, and to think about it, the best is to write it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u185	I would like to thank our colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize for all his amendments, which are in line with the optimisation of artificialised soils. The elevation of the existing buildings is entirely in line with the logic of the article and the one that we wish to promote, which I presented in the introduction. Therefore, favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u187	I also think that the rise is a good way to respond to the challenges of combating urban sprawl. Even if, from a strictly legal point of view, this possibility is already written in the law, I think it is an important signal and I will therefore give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u188	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u189	The renovation of wastelands is obviously a measure that must be enshrined in the law, the elevation of buildings must of course be prioritized, but perhaps one could write a more concise law – or else, support our amendments when they are of the same order... In fact, Madam Deputy Minister, if, during the shuttle with the Senate, you could replace the words "including" with "in particular" or "as a priority", the stated objective would be much more proactive: as it stands, it is rather legislative blablabla. I will vote in favour of the amendment, but I think we need to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u190	It's marketing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u191	[["Oh there! »onthebanksoftheDemgroup]] It's not us that this would happen... Unless we put on orange masks, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u192	I have before me two amendments, Nos 432 and 4087, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Vincent Descoeur's Amendment No 432 is being defended. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 4087.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u193	Madam Deputy Minister, you may not have the same doubts as President Chassaigne about the future of rural development, but the paralysis of rural development remains – and you are aware of it – a major fact and a concern of local elected representatives, especially those of our campaigns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u194	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u195	The fear of the future of the rural world is reinforced by the strict application of the provisions of the law for access to housing and renovated urban planning, known as ALUR, which prohibits – sometimes without discernment – any construction outside the urban envelope of town-centres and small towns. The aim of this amendment is therefore to create the conditions for small towns and rural towns to be attractive or to maintain their attractiveness, by officially allowing them to fill their hollow teeth in continuity with the existing structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u196	Very good proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u198	These amendments raise an important issue: the revitalization of all our territories, especially small municipalities that are losing people. Nevertheless, I do not think that urban sprawl leads to the return of the population to these communes. There are different ways to design our cities and organize the existing ones so as to optimize them. In addition, it is stated in section 49 that demographic issues are taken into account in the determination of efforts, which must be territorialized. I therefore believe that the provisions of Article 49 concerning the declination of anti-artificialisation objectives in our territories will respond to your request. Finally, I would like to remind you that since 2017, many tools have been put in place to help hard-to-reinvigorate territories, such as the Territorial Revitalization Operations (ORT) or the "Small Cities of Tomorrow" program, which aims to re-qualify and re-energize the territories. These programmes bring together local actors and government representatives, who provide both answers, solutions and financial support. I therefore consider the two amendments to be satisfactory, and I shall give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u200	To supplement the rapporteur's remarks, I would point out that Article 48 amends the general principles of the Urban Planning Code, which are contained in Article L. 101-2. However, it provides that "the action of public authorities in the field of urban planning is aimed at achieving the following objectives:... the balance between the populations living in urban and rural areas...". Today, therefore, the concern about the balance of populations throughout the territory is already included in the urban planning code – and it is happy. The purpose of your amendment is therefore satisfied by these general principles. It is also so in terms of operationality, because the objectives will be set in a differentiated way according to the territories – this is a subject on which we will return. I would remind you once again, because I think it is important, that the balance between the populations living in urban areas and those living in rural areas is the first of the general principles of the urban planning code. Since the amendments are satisfied, I request that they be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u201	I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 232, 1212, 1491, 2167, 2331, 3041 and 4021. Amendments Nos 232 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 1212 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet are defended. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 1491.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u202	I propose, as part of the fight against artificialisation, to support the decision to open an area to urbanization on the qualitative and structural dimensions of development – in other words, on quality, not on quantity. A question also concerning a subject that worries me: will the creation of a bike path enter into the calculation of the artificialization as you anticipate it? If so, it would be a paradox that would obviously be a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u203	Identical amendments Nos 2167 by Mr Arnaud Viala and 2331 by Mr Gérard Menuel are defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3041.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u204	Defended, because of the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u205	Amendment No 4021 by Mr Robin Reda is also being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u206	The amendments tend to make it clear that planning or construction operations must also be innovative and sustainable. These two concepts, which are essential vectors of urban quality, are important and participate fully in the fight against soil artificialisation. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u208	I also think that these are notions that deserve to be clarified. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u209	[[Smile]] You saw, Mr. Aubert: You don't even need to wear an orange mask! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u210	[[Smile]] I noticed: they want us to vote in favour of the article! Madam Deputy Minister, you have not answered my colleague Yves Hemedinger's question on bicycle paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u211	I have before me three identical amendments No 825 by Mr Charles de Courson, No 1498 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and No 4027 by Mr Robin Reda, which are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u212	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 207, 435, 468, 2533, 2679, 3045, 5702, 6387, 2591, 3919, 3916, 957, 986, 1329, 2257, 2634, 2754, 4064, 4901, 6996 and 7117, which may be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 207, 435, 468, 2533, 2679, 3045, 5702 and 6387 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 957, 986, 1329, 2257, 2634, 2754, 4064, 4901, 6996 and 7117. Identical amendments Nos 207 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 435 by Mrs Valérie Beauvais, 468 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 2533 by Mr Philippe Chalumeau and 2679 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz are defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3045.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u213	Defended, because of the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u214	Identical amendments Nos 5702 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup and 6387 by Mr Philippe Huppé are being defended. Mr Philippe Chalumeau's amendment No 2591 is being defended. Amendments Nos 3919 and 3916 by Mr François-Michel Lambert are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u215	It's important controlled labels of origin! This is the future of Alsace wine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u216	Identical amendments Nos 957 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 986 by Mr Martial Saddier, 1329 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, 2257 by Mrs Lise Magnier and 2634 by Mr Bernard Perrut are being defended. Mr Jacques Cattin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2754.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u217	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] It tends to reinforce the need for balance between the different spaces. As agricultural land has an economic purpose and its own characteristics, it should not be treated as a natural area without economic activity. Preserving agricultural space means preserving the climate by producing local.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u218	Amendments Nos 4064 by Mr Florent Boudié, 4901 by Mr Benoit Simian and 6996 by Mrs Sophie Mette are defended. Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 7117.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u219	Please excuse my haste: I ran to come from the Finance Committee; It's hard to be everywhere at once!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u220	We're not running the calendar!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u221	We need a hologram!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u222	The aim of this amendment is to distinguish between natural and forest areas and agricultural areas because, even if they are all to be preserved, they may have conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u224	These amendments raise two essential points. First of all, you want to replace "soils" with "spaces", which leads to not taking into account the impairment of soil functionality by artificialization. Then you want to deal with other agricultural lands, especially those that benefit from a controlled label of origin (AOC). By setting a general target of 50% reduction in artificialisation, we already have a very strong ambition to protect our agricultural, natural and forest areas. For us, there is no question of distinguishing them because we find them all very important, as I said in the preamble. We must remain on target.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u225	We need our AOCs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u226	That is why I will give an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u228	Should soil protection be differentiated from that of the protection of spaces, especially natural and forest areas? I will refer again to article L. 101-2 of the Urban Planning Code, which will be supplemented by this article 47. In my previous quote, I read to you the a) which asks public authorities to maintain the balance between "populations living in urban and rural areas". This time, I will read to you (c) where they are asked to aim for "a cost-effective use of natural spaces, the preservation of areas for agricultural and forestry activities and the protection of sites, environments and natural landscapes". The principle of preserving natural, agricultural and forestry areas is well reflected in this article of the Urban Planning Code. We do not change this part,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u229	But it's not about AOC!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u230	...but we're adding soil protection. Without removing anything from the protection of natural spaces, we enter into the fight against the artificialisation that requires the protection of the soil. That is why I am voting against all these amendments. As for the bike paths,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u231	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u232	...they do not create artificialization when they are in town or at the edge of a road. This is not the case when they are in a natural space or land, but the artificialized surfaces are then "epsilonesque" given the very small width of these tracks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u233	I have before me twelve identical amendments, Nos 115, 233, 889, 1214, 1494, 1643, 2168, 2334, 3042, 4022, 4669 and 4751. The identical amendments No. 115 by Mr Martial Saddier, 233 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 889 by Mr Pierre Vatin, 1214 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, 1494 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, 1643 by Mrs Danielle Brulebois, 2168 by Mr Arnaud Viala and 2334 by Mr Gérard Menuel were defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3042.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u234	Writer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u235	[[Smile]] You know it's gonna matter for a second! Amendment No 3042 is therefore drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u236	You're nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u237	Identical amendments Nos 4022 by Mr Robin Reda, 4669 by Mr Hervé Saulignac and 4751 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u238	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1051.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u239	It is intended to provide clearly that public authorities must limit the artificialisation of land in urban planning, taking into account the need to protect natural, agricultural and forest soils and the biodiversity that depends on them. This will make it possible to explicitly include natural-space-specific biodiversity in arbitrations concerning the artificialization or transformation of certain natural soils.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u241	Your amendment already seems to me to be satisfied with paragraph 7 of the article, which seeks, in order to achieve the absence of net artificialisation of the soil, a balance with "preservation and restoration of biodiversity". I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u242	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 4296.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u243	The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the fight against artificialisation also involves the restoration of artificialised soils. The aim is to encourage communities to carry out operations to dewater or re-naturalize public spaces such as school courses, car parks, etc. The interest of vegetation is to limit the rise of temperatures and improve the living environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u245	This amendment raises the issue of compensation, which is involved in the concept of net artificialisation. Considering that he is satisfied, I ask for his withdrawal. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u246	Amendment No 4372 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u247	I have before me 20 amendments, Nos 1505, 28, 201, 403, 611, 827, 917, 1259, 1299, 1844, 2172, 2687, 3043, 3046, 3520, 3789, 5310, 5696, 6020 and 6542, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 28, 201, 403, 611, 827, 917, 1259, 1299, 1844, 2172, 2687, 3043, 3046, 3520, 3789, 5310, 5696 and 6020 are identical. Amendment No 1505 by Mr Yves Hemedinger is being defended. The identical amendments No. 28 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 201 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 403 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 611 by Mrs Agnès Thill, 827 by Mrs Frédérique Meunier, 917 by Mr Pierre Vatin, 1259 by Mrs Nathalie Serre, 1299 by Mr Christophe Naegelen, 1844 by Mr Xavier Batut, 2172 by Mr Arnaud Viala, 2687 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz and 3043 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin were defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3046.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u248	It is not drafting, Mr President, but for the qualitative and quantitative needs of the sitting, I shall confine myself to saying that it is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u249	[[Smile]] Six seconds for Mr. Bazin! Identical amendments Nos 3520 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 3789 by Mr Jérôme Nury, 5310 by Mr David Habib, 5696 by Mr Bertrand Bouyx and 6020 by Mr Jean Lassalle were defended. Amendment No 6542 by Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u250	The purpose of this article is to list the urban principles of the extension of the city that must be reconciled in the search for the limitation of artificialisation: control of sprawl, urban renewal, urban quality. It focuses on the spatial organization of urban geography and the principles to be assimilated in order to reconcile trends. It should therefore not become a new enumeration in this code of socio-economic objectives that communities in general have set themselves, and which are already widely covered in all urban planning documents. That is why I shall express an opinion which is unfavourable to all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u252	I believe I have told you that article L. 101-2 of the Urban Planning Code, which we are seeking to complete, is already very well drafted. After quoting from (a) and (b), I will quote from 3°: "The diversity of urban and rural functions and the social mix in the habitat, by providing sufficient building and rehabilitation capacities to satisfy, without discrimination, the present and future needs of all modes of housing, economic, tourist, sporting, cultural and of general interest [...]. » It seems to me that the concerns of the authors of this series of amendments are fully satisfied by the current wording of this article. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u253	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u254	I'd like to have a clarification. There are 63,000 kilometres of bike paths in France. Can you tell us how they are divided between the two categories that you mentioned, namely those that are near the roads and those that are known to be artificialized surfaces? Knowing that the Netherlands, a country thirteen times smaller than ours, has 70000 kilometres of tracks, and that the bike area is expanding, can you give us an estimate of the area that would be so-called artificialized by the application of your text?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u255	I have before me five amendments, Nos 5421, 758, 5420, 6257 and 964, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 758, 5420 and 6257 are identical. Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor to support Amendment No. 5421.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u256	While seeking to limit the artificialization of land, account must be taken of all remaining urban needs, particularly for key economic sectors in some territories. Maintaining and developing activities that could be described as strategic, well-established in some areas, are essential to the employment and dynamism of these areas of life. These activities contribute to the cycle of sustainable development leading to circular planning. Sustainable development also requires the maintenance of people and their jobs in the territories. Like Amendment No 5420, this amendment proposes to take account of these strategic industries from the outset, which is in line with the priority projects defined by the Government to reindustrialize the country. Care must be taken not to compete with habitat areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u257	Identical Amendments Nos 758 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 5420 by Mrs Sandra Marsaud and 6257 by Mr Guillaume Kasbarian are being defended. Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to support Amendment No. 964.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u258	It should be made clear that the objective of limiting the artificialisation of soil must also be pursued by taking into account the maintenance of strategic local economic activities. The accuracy of these strategic economic activities will be devolved to the regulatory area, in line with this article. Many departments are based on one or two key economic sectors, very often dynamic and creating jobs and resources for those territories. The possibilities for economic growth in these territories should not be undermined by taking into account the necessary development of these sectors considered strategic at the departmental level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u259	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u260	In our work in the Special Committee, we have already raised these concerns from many territories which need coherence and harmonisation in order to respond to the various issues identified. But, as the Minister Delegate has said, article 48 is part of article L. 101-2 of the Urban Planning Code, which already provides for "the satisfaction, without discrimination, of present and future needs of all modes of housing, economic, tourist, sporting, cultural and general interest activities as well as public facilities and commercial equipment". As written, this article already meets your expectations. That is why I am asking for these amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u262	Your concern, we will find it in Article 49, when it comes to defining the possibilities of artificialisation of the soil. Indeed, the text does not foresee that they will never be artificialized again, but to a lesser extent, and that we will even find a way to de-artificialize certain soils in order to restore them to nature, or, if they are already de-artificialized, to implement activities there. I call for the withdrawal of this series of amendments in favour of those we are going to consider in Article 49 – I am thinking of the rapporteur's amendment No 3109, which will deal with major projects at regional level. As for the main principles, they are already amended by the preceding paragraphs of article 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u263	Are you withdrawing your amendments, Mrs Marsaud?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u264	Relying on the opinion just given, I withdraw them. We will therefore pay attention to the amendments to Article 49 so that, once again, the spaces to be defined are not put into competition with each other. Local authorities must be trusted in their definition of building spaces, not only for large projects but also for strategic sectors in wine-growing areas, for example, as in my home, where constructions outside the urban envelope are involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u265	Do you maintain your amendment, Mr. Ardouin?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u266	I withdraw it, for the same reasons as Mrs Marsaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u267	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1428.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u268	François-Michel Lambert proposes that we include, among the objectives of combating the artificialisation of the soil, the need to implement a local urbanisation. The aim of this amendment is to combat the phenomenon of functional specialisation of neighbourhoods and to recreate living areas, in order to prevent our fellow citizens from increasing travel times and deteriorating living conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u270	You are talking about an important subject, but I come back to article L. 101-2 of the Urban Planning Code, which explicitly mentions the "decrease in motorized travel obligations". Since your amendment is satisfied, I ask for it to be withdrawn, failing which I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u272	The same opinion, for the same reasons: the concern expressed by the authors of the amendment is satisfied by article L. 101-2 of the Urban Planning Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u273	Amendments Nos 4774 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin, 4090 by Mr André Chassaigne and 764 by Mr Dino Cinieri are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u274	Amendment No 4373 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is also being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u275	He is satisfied, so I ask for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u276	Identical amendments Nos 416 by Mrs Valérie Beauvais and 3113 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u277	Article L. 101-2 of the Urban Planning Code already provides for "the fight against climate change and adaptation to this change, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the economy of fossil resources, the control of energy and the production of energy from renewable sources". These two amendments are therefore satisfied: the request for withdrawal and, if not, the objection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u278	Amendment No 2236 by Mr Anthony Cellier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u279	I have before me twenty-four amendments, Nos 1738, 3232, 132, 4635, 5253, 3230, 1393, 305, 1027, 1502, 2705, 3047, 2646, 3231, 2745, 210, 2325, 4024, 5882, 1878, 2156, 3048, 4562 and 5142, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 132, 4635 and 5253 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 305, 1027, 1502, 2705 and 3047, Nos 210, 2325, 4024 and 5882 and Nos 1878, 2156, 3048, 4562 and 5142. Amendments Nos 1738 by Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous and 3232 by Mr François-Michel Lambert are defended, as are identical amendments Nos 132 by Mrs Delphine Batho, 4635 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire and 5253 by Mrs Valérie Petit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u280	Amendment No 5253 is withdrawn
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u281	Amendment No 3230 by Mr François-Michel Lambert is being defended. Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1393.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u282	It aims to enrich the debate on the definition of soil artificialisation. I propose to draft paragraph 9 as follows: "Artificialization is the result of a transformation, through human activities and urban development, of natural soils, resulting in a degradation of permeability or biodiversity. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u283	Identical amendments No. 305 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, No. 1027 by Mr Charles de Courson, No. 1502 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, No. 2705 by Mr Vincent Rolland and No. 3047 by Mr Thibault Bazin were defended, as were Amendments No. 2646 by Mr Bernard Perrut and No. 3231 by Mr François-Michel Lambert. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2745.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u284	The aim is to propose another definition of soil artificialisation. We propose that paragraph 9 read as follows: "A soil whose occupation or use reduces a natural, agricultural or forestry area and impermeabilizes it in a non-reversible manner. This definition is more restrictive than the one proposed in the text to preserve biodiversity, to combat concreteisation, while allowing for the evolution of urbanised and periurbanised spaces, in particular as a result of demographic changes. It is necessary to clarify this concept in order not to increase litigation or block urban planning projects which make a useful contribution to spatial planning. We have taken note of the Government's willingness to deepen the definition of soil artificialization in terms of their capacity to absorb and drain water – which involves combating its waterproofing – as well as their capacity to host biodiversity and store carbon. However, since no wording based on this vision has been proposed, there is a great risk of creating a high degree of uncertainty when using a definition based on the concept of soil function.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u285	On the identical amendments Nos 210, 2325, 4024 and 5882, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Identical amendments Nos 210 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 2325 by Mr Gérard Menuel, 4024 by Mr Robin Reda and 5882 by Mr Julien Aubert are defended, as are identical amendments Nos 1878 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, 2156 by Mr Arnaud Viala, 3048 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 4562 by Mr Hervé Saulignac and 5142 by Mr André Chassaigne. What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u286	The amendments tabled by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Sempastous and Lambert aim to completely redefine the artificialisation of soils based on a definition provided by the Observatory of Agricultural and Forest Natural Areas. It lists the types of states that may correspond to the concept of artificialization, including mines and quarries, as well as infrastructure. It expressly includes, among artificialized spaces, urban green spaces and vegetated spaces in the urban fabric. According to this definition, spaces that have undergone such artificialization are no longer available for natural function or agricultural or forestry use. Thus, an artificialisation that transforms a soil into an urban park and the one that transforms it into a landfill is also recorded. On the contrary, we wish to encourage urban greening, but this definition would prevent us from doing so. On the other hand, a definition by enumeration cannot be adapted because there will necessarily be oblivion. I therefore express an unfavourable opinion on Amendments Nos 1738 and 3232. Secondly, many of the amendments here under joint discussion propose, with small variations, to redefine an artificial soil such as the one whose allocation reduces a natural, agricultural or forestry area and results in either, according to certain amendments, "permanent or sustainable" or, according to others, "irreversible". However, the definition proposed in Article 48 seeks to understand artificialization as broadly as possible by referring to the violation of the occupation or use of the soil, and thus to its functionality. Waterproofing is only a possible damage that a soil can suffer. The phenomena of reducing natural, agricultural and forestry areas and the phenomena of waterproofing are included in the definition we propose, without excluding other possibilities of artificialisation which the amendments concerned do not take into account. So I'm unfavorable. I come to the amendments by Mrs Batho, Mrs Petit and Mr Lambert, which clarify the definition of artificial soil in order to take into account the capacity of natural soils to harbour biodiversity and to preserve its "biogeochemical qualities". I share this concern, however, which is addressed by Mrs Lasserre's amendment, which we shall soon be considering, which details what is meant by impairment of soil functionality. I therefore propose that these amendments be withdrawn in favour of Mrs Lasserre; Or I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u288	The aim of this series of amendments is to thoroughly review the very definition of soil artificialisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u289	You're right to say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u290	I agree with the rapporteur's statement, which I will add on two points. Firstly, some of the amendments propose going back to the old definition. However, a great deal of work has been done by France strategy, by a college of scientific expertise, and then by a partnership working group that I have created, including parliamentarians, representatives of elected associations and representatives of the world of urban planning. There is general agreement that the current definition is problematic, if only because it puts on the same plane the artificialisation of the soil which results from the creation of a tarred parking lot and the resulting creation of urban green spaces. It is clear, therefore, that if it is precisely a question of keeping a form of diversity and nature within our urban spaces, this definition is obsolete and needs to be reviewed. Another set of amendments tends to clarify the different functions of the ground. However, an amendment by the rapporteur and Amendment No 5018 by Mrs Lasserre will clarify the definition of the artificialisation of soil with regard to damage to ecological, biological, water and climatic functions. Therefore, for these two reasons – the current definition is no longer up to date and the necessary clarifications will be made by an amendment that we are going to consider shortly – I express an unfavorable opinion on this series of amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u291	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u292	We consider it necessary to be clear: we aim at nibbling agricultural natural areas. We do not put on the same plane what can happen in the city and what can happen on the urban periphery. Secondly, with regard to the functionality of the soil, it is indeed waterproofing that is involved – the examples of Nice, Vaison-la-Romane have shown that concreteisation hinders the water cycle. It is according to your consideration of this priority that we will vote on the article or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u293	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u294	You have indicated, Madam Deputy Minister, that you are conducting a consultation with parliamentarians. Have you associated members of parliament with minorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u295	Let's say: political minorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u296	That's it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u297	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 210, 2325, 4024 and 5882.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u298	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 118 Number of votes cast 110 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 21 Against 89
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u299	The identical amendments No 3114 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel and No 3229 by Mr François-Michel Lambert are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u300	I have before me two amendments, Nos 5018 and 3105, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Lasserre to support Amendment No. 5018.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u301	The bill defines artificialization with reference to the impairment of soil functionality, without specifying what functions are considered. With this amendment, I propose to focus the definition of artificialisation on the damage to the ecological functions of the soil. This concept covers biological, physico-chemical, water and climatic functions. It takes into account the role of water cycle regulation, pollutant degradation and retention, carbon storage, fertility and biomass production as well as natural habitat. Finally, it is specified that a soil is considered to be artificialized when its occupation or use undermines its agronomic potential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u302	Amendment No 3105 by Mrs Delphine Batho is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u303	We were talking about this very important amendment at the moment. I therefore have a favourable opinion on Amendment No 5018 by Mrs Lasserre and an unfavourable opinion on Amendment No 3105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u305	It is also in favour of Mrs Lasserre's amendment, which seems to me to address the concerns expressed in many of the amendments put forward in the previous joint discussions. It covers all the functions – biological, water, climate – whose assignment leads to considering the surface as artificialized, as well as the agronomic potential of the soil. I therefore call for Amendment No 3105 to be withdrawn for the benefit of point 5018.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u306	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u307	I share the desire to define more precisely the concept of soil artificialisation, so as not to create litigation and to avoid any negative consequences on current or future projects. We must take into account the fragility of the building sector, which we know is in need of visibility and stability. However, the Deputy Minister referred to the consultation she had launched on this issue. I would like to know the position of the local authorities and that of the urban planners on the wording proposed in the amendment: do they consider that it removes the doubts and questions they raised at the beginning of the discussion of the text? What do construction actors think? Several questions remain outstanding, and I would like answers on these points.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u308	Amendment No 6429 by Mrs Sandrine Le Feur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u309	Amendment No 2231 by Mr Anthony Cellier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u310	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u312	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u313	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u314	I am addressing this part of the text with a favorable apriori. In fact, I intervene with great parsimony. However, if I do not get answers to the specific and concrete questions that I ask, I may, regrettably, evolve towards less benevolent feelings. These issues are of interest to both local elected officials who, in peri-urban territories, are confronted with a strong demographic dynamism, and construction actors, who are currently experiencing difficult times. I would therefore like answers. If this is not the case, I shall, despite my good intentions, have some doubts which will prevent me from continuing the work in a positive state of mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u315	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u316	I will indeed clarify how the Department conducted its preparatory work. First of all, if the text is, as you know, partly a result of the work of the Citizen's Convention for Climate, Julien Denormandie, who was then Deputy Minister for Housing, and myself, as Secretary of State for Ecology, had previously wished to bring together various stakeholders in a working group devoted to the fight against artificialisation. The members of this working group were MPs Sandra Marsaud, Alain Perea and Jean-Luc Lagleize and Senator Anne-Catherine Loisier. The associations of elected representatives of the communal, intercommunal, departmental and regional blocs were also represented – as I would like to remind you, urban France – which, it seems to me, allowed the expression of various political sensitivities. This work was carried out prior to the drafting of the text and therefore stopped when the Citizen's Climate Convention took over and then when we translated the work into legislation. The observation that had then been made on the basis of the current definition emphasized the need to work on the degree of damage to the different functions of the soil rather than to maintain a binary approach – so, as we mentioned earlier, not to place parking lots and green spaces on the same plane. It also seemed essential to value the spaces of nature in the city as well as the non-waterproofed surfaces, for the reasons already mentioned: waterproofing has absolutely catastrophic consequences in times of floods or very heavy rainfall. Finally, it was important to combat the pitting of natural, agricultural and forest areas. It was therefore necessary to adopt a more precise definition, by more detailing the different functions of the soil, rather than to decide binaryly whether a surface is artificialized or not. It is on this basis that we have worked. Subsequently, in a special committee, parliamentarians from all walks of life asked the rapporteur and the Government to clarify the definition of artificialization contained in the text. That is what led us to reach a favourable opinion on Amendment No 5018 by Mrs Lasserre. This is the genesis of the work that has been carried out. At the time, it was not a question of formally setting up a group to prepare a bill, but rather of initiating a reflection with actors dealing with the issue of soil artificialisation. Identifying the problem posed by the current definition has allowed this reflection to mature. I did not answer the quiz question on the number of kilometres of bike paths currently counted in France, because I do not have the answer on hand: I will therefore come back to it later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u317	Thank you, but don't make a bike of it either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u318	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 4512 and 7149. Amendment No 4512 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 7149.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u319	It is a question of considering that certain reversible land uses may constitute artificialization. I refer to wind farms: 600 to 800 tonnes per wind turbine, nearly 4 million tonnes of concrete will have to be injected into the ground to install 6500 wind turbines. Why not consider this process an artificialisation of the soil, especially since you intend to double the number of wind turbines in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u320	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u321	Your request is met. Article 48 provides that a soil is considered to be artificial if its use affects its functions "sustainably": it is not necessary for them to be permanently affected. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u323	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u324	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u325	Since local authorities do not have a hand in the location of wind farms, pointing out that wind farms are considered to be artificialisations, you will explain that a municipality which will accept the installation of a wind farm could be totally amputated by its capacity for territorial development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u326	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 39, 1611, 2191, 2648, 2672, 3236, 5299, 5787, 208, 279, 2053, 3049, 3304, 5251, 5575, 5732, 6021, 6351 and 6367, which may be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 39, 1611, 2191, 2648, 2672, 3236, 5299 and 5787 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 208, 279, 2053, 3049, 3304, 5251, 5575, 5732, 6021, 6351 and 6367. Amendments Nos 39 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 1611 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, 2191 by Mr Arnaud Viala, 2648 by Mr Bernard Perrut, 2672 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, 3236 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 5299 by Mr David Habib and 5787 by Mr Pierre Morel -À- L'Huissier are defended, as are Amendments Nos 208 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 279 by Mr Julien Dive. I call Mr Travert to support Amendment No. 2053.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u327	It is proposed to add to the existing definition that unbuilt areas for agricultural, natural or forestry use are not considered to be artificialized. Excluded from the definition all open ground surfaces, regardless of their use, will avoid ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u328	Identical amendments Nos 3049 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 3304 by Mr Dominique Potier, 5251 by Mr Charles de Courson, 5575 by Mrs Florence Lasserre, 5732 by Mr Antoine Herth, 6021 by Mr Philippe Vigier, 6351 by Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau and 6367 by Mr Nicolas Forissier were defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u329	They aim to clarify that unbuilt natural, agricultural and forestry areas located either in an agricultural, natural or forestry area of a local planning plan, or in non-constructible areas of communal maps or outside the urbanised parts of the communes, are not artificialized. It seems pointless to me to increase paragraph 9 of the article, the following paragraph providing that a decree in the Council of State will specify the nomenclature of artificialized soils according to their use and degree of allocation. I would add that two amendments, Nos 3158 and 3234, which are intended to clarify that open ground surfaces are not considered to be artificialised at a later stage, will be considered. Opinion against all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u330	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u331	In essence, there is no debate: the areas mentioned in your amendments will remain considered unartificial. Simply put, this clarification will be included in the decree which will establish the nomenclature of artificialized surfaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u332	It's better to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u333	Furthermore, as the rapporteur pointed out, identical amendments Nos 3158 and 3234, which will be discussed later, explicitly aim to exclude open ground surfaces from the definition of artificialisation. Unfavorable opinion, or request for withdrawal in favour of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u334	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u335	In the light of that clarification, which was expected, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u336	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u337	I'm removing mine, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u338	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 199, 916, 1263, 1275, 1510, 1842, 2686, 3050, 3051, 3512, 4023, 5315, 5688, 5954 and 7307. Amendments Nos 199 by Véronique Louwagie, 916 by Pierre Vatin, 1263 by Nathalie Serre, 1275 by Carole Grandjean, 1510 by Yves Hemedinger, 1842 by Xavier Batut, 2686 by Marie-Christine Dalloz, 3050 by Thibault Bazin, 3051 by Anne-Laure Blin, 3512 by Stéphane Viry, 4023 by Robin Reda and 5315 by David Habib are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u339	Because of the scheduled legislative time, for Mr Bazin's time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u340	I call Mr Bouyx to support Amendment No. 5688.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u341	It is simply intended to ensure that natural surfaces and vegetated soils are considered unartificial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u342	Amendments Nos 5954 by Mr Jean Lassalle and 7307 by Mr Jérôme Nury are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u343	I fully understand the need for clarification expressed in these amendments. However, since they relate to "natural areas", it might be thought that they exclude agricultural and forestry areas. That's why...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u344	The previous amendments had to be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u345	... I propose that you withdraw them, in favour of Amendments Nos 3158 and 3234 by our colleagues Lise Magnier and Thibault Bazin, to which I have already referred and which seek to affirm the unartificial nature of open ground surfaces: they seem to me to be better suited to your expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u346	Excellent amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u347	In the absence of a withdrawal, I will issue an unfavorable opinion. I would also point out that Amendment No 5018 by Mr Lasserre, which we have just adopted, specifies the ecological functions of the soils which must be affected in order for the surface to be regarded as artificial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u349	It is the same as the rapporteur. The definition, already enriched by Mrs Lasserre's amendment – which aimed to clarify all the functions of the soil – could be supplemented by the two forthcoming amendments, Nos 3158 and 3234, relating to "open ground areas". This new, more comprehensive definition would fully address your totally legitimate concern, clearly indicating that natural surfaces and vegetated soils are not considered artificialized. That would be a certainty. Request for withdrawal in favour of the following two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u350	I should like to inform the House that, with regard to Amendment No 7147 to come, a request for a public vote has been submitted to me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Identical amendments Nos 3158 by Mrs Lise Magnier and 3234 by Mr Thibault Bazin, already mentioned, are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u351	As I have already said, I am in favour of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u352	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u353	It is in favour because we must be precise and not allow any ambiguity regarding the scope of the definition of artificialized soils. From this point of view, these amendments are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u354	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 7147.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u355	It provides for a list of the seven soil functions that could be affected by artificialisation, based on a definition formulated by the United Nations. Such an amendment should be the subject of consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u357	You want to clarify the functions of the soil: I would remind you that we have already voted for amendments in which the water and agronomic functions are detailed. If any clarifications are necessary, they will be included in the decree. Such a list is therefore not necessary here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u358	It's artificial!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u360	You are proposing an alternative wording to the one chosen following the adoption of Amendment No 5018, which already takes into account the different functions, quoting them more clearly. As your amendment is satisfied, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u361	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u362	I would point out that the list in my amendment includes "the supply of building materials" as well as "the supply of food, fibre and fuel", two functions that are not included in the wording, much less specific than mine, which you refer to. In these circumstances, I really do not see how my amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u363	I put to the vote Amendment No 7147.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u364	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 112 Number of votes cast 110 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 27 Against 83
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u365	Against the UN!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u366	They don't like the floors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u367	The identical amendments No 446 by Mr Marc Le Fur, No 1536 by Mr François-Michel Lambert, No 3161 by Mrs Lise Magnier, No 3235 by Mr Thibault Bazin and No 5143 by Mr Hubert Wulfranc were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u368	Thank you for number 3234, Madam Minister Delegate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u369	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u370	Identical amendments Nos 2476 by Mr François-Michel Lambert, 4374 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar and 4935 by Mr Cédric Villani are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u371	Article 49, paragraph 22, specifically provides that, in the urban planning document, any new openness to urbanization is based on evidence, which is a study in support, that it is not possible to carry out projects on already urbanized spaces. Since these amendments are satisfied, I ask for them to be withdrawn and, failing that, give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u372	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support Amendment No. 3305.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u373	The Socialist and related group has so far shown some sobriety. I would like to take this opportunity to express once again our support for the trajectory proposed in this article. However, when addressing the issue of artificialization and its damage to soil functions, only about 5% of agricultural soil issues in general are actually addressed. The effects of land grabbing on soil quality are much greater than those caused by artificialization. A large land law would be welcome soon. We follow the logic of this narrative, which began with the law of solidarity and urban renewal – SRU – and continued with the Grenelle de l'Environnement and the ALUR law, until the climate and resilience bill that we are discussing today. We must avoid a double pitfall. First of all, we reject artificialization, linked to a logic of demand that does not take into account real public costs and undermines solidarity within our society, but we also ignore an urban hubris that would lead some to believe that the rural environment could be just a desert occupied by a few Indians. If we defend these options, we will advocate for communities to have the means to implement them. The question of urban renewal and the means needed to rehabilitate wasteland, to re-densify areas that have been anthropized and to give them a second life is very important – we will come back to that. By this amendment, we simply call for the principle of land non-degradation to be included in the general code of local and regional authorities and for it to become a course of action, explicitly set out in the forthcoming articles. In order to save our time, which is limited, I will also mention a forthcoming amendment, No 3307, by which we defend the principle of an assessment of the respect by local and regional authorities for the path set – I would like to hear you on this point, Madam Deputy Minister. I have not been able to ask two important questions in committee: how do you intend to carry out an evaluation after ten years? And what happens in practice if the trajectory has not been respected? Are there limitations on the right to build and the right to land or financial sanctions imposed on the communities concerned? We are setting ambitious goals – this is not the first time, I have quoted several previously passed laws. I am convinced that you want to achieve them, but how can an evaluation be carried out, and if so, what sanctions can be imposed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u374	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u375	On the one hand, the preservation of the soil, which is an important issue, is already included among the general principles of the urban planning code, in article L. 101-2 that section 48 of the bill completes. On the other hand, the fight against artificialisation contributes strongly to this goal of preservation. That is the meaning of the amendments that we have just adopted. Net neutrality, i.e. the end of the loss of healthy land, is an objective that will be reinforced by the reduction of the consumption of new land. For these two reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u376	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u377	Your amendment is intended to add a reference in the article to the UN's objective of combating the continued loss of healthy land. Part of the answer to this problem is, of course, directly ecological, because it is linked to the quality of land and soil. But another part of the response is more comprehensive, since it affects food security and the mode of cultivation, issues that go beyond that of artificialization. I find it difficult to mention this objective in the definition of artificialization, because the issue of healthy land is much broader. It is also dealt with in the context of many public policies, particularly those concerning the agricultural transition, from the point of view of crops. The definition in Article 48 applies perfectly to healthy land if we limit ourselves to the ecological and climatic aspects of the problem raised by the United Nations, but it is broader and covers other dimensions. You also referred to the important issue of the operational implementation mechanisms that we have planned. This requires first checking that the urban planning documents will be well adapted, in accordance with the logic of distribution that characterizes our ambition to reduce artificialisation, first at the regional level, then at the SCOT level, and finally at the urban planning documents level. As we shall see in Article 49, deadlines for bringing urban planning documents into line will be set, with very clear consequences if they are not complied with. These documents are then required for all building permits. It is therefore through the management of urban planning documents that the provisions will become fully operational and demonstrate their usefulness. An expost evaluation, every ten years, will make it possible to know the actual distribution and effects of the measures submitted to the vote today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u378	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u379	For decades, it has been said that such a mechanism would be put in place. And we never did. The monitoring and verification mechanism, as you describe it, therefore seems to me remote, rather uncertain – due in part to its renegotiability – and not necessarily effective. We could think about more precise and direct measures in view of the urgency of the problem. I therefore maintain my amendment. Together with Jean-Bernard Sempastous and Anne-Laurence Petel, I have written an information report which shows that the issues of soil protection, sharing and management are intrinsically linked, particularly around the issues of agroecology but also of food sovereignty and safety. This shows once again that this law does not embrace subjects on the right scale. Symbolically and politically at least, the Socialist and Related Group maintains the idea that the damage to healthy land is, in part, a result of artificialization, but is mainly related to the problem of land grabbing and the question of agricultural models.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u380	Identical amendments Nos 1544 by Mr François-Michel Lambert, 3237 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 4631 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u381	I have before me two sets of amendments, on the one hand identical amendments Nos 122 and 122 and following, on the other hand identical amendments Nos 235 and following, which may be subject to joint discussion. We begin with the first set of identical amendments Nos 122, 302, 1496, 1644, 2335, 4025. Amendments Nos 122 by Mr Martial Saddier and 302 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard are being defended. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 1496.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u382	This is an amendment of drafting precision, aimed at ensuring that the monitoring is carried out by the communities responsible for urban planning. Let's trust the mayors. That is necessary, as we saw yesterday again in the discussion on the organisation of the next elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u383	Amendments Nos 1644 by Mrs Danielle Brulebois, 2335 by Mr Gérard Menuel and 4025 by Mr Robin Reda are defended. In the joint debate we come to the second set of identical amendments Nos 235, 428, 1219, 1662, 2169, 3238 and 4673. Amendments Nos 235 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 428 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 1219 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, 1662 by Mr Charles de Courson and 2169 by Mr Arnaud Viala are defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3238.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u384	I am content to say that he is defended to give Mr Cattin time to speak when he defends his own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u385	Amendment No 4673 by Mr Hervé Saulignac is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u386	As I said in my first speech, I would like to leave my hand to the local elected representatives in the area of soil artificialisation. This is, moreover, entirely the meaning, on the one hand, of Article 49, which provides that the artificialisation of the soil is managed by the local authorities, in particular the mayors, through the PLUs and the PLUs, and, on the other hand, of Article 50, which provides that the mayors shall bring up the data relating to the state of the artificialisation of the soil in their communes, thanks to a report made every year, or every two years for the communes of less than 3500 inhabitants. Your amendments therefore seem to me to be satisfactory. In addition, through the National Observatory for the Artificialisation of Soils, the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Planning – CEREMA – will make these data available directly to mayors. We therefore believe that the latter play a major role in the pursuit of our objectives. Request for withdrawal and failing unfavourable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u387	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u388	The second set of identical amendments deals with the question of the purpose of the decree. You are wondering how, from the definition in the Order, communities can track the progress of the work. These amendments seem to me to be satisfied by the very existence of the decree which, by establishing this definition, will answer your question. As for the first set of amendments, it is a real problem, since it is a question of deleting "the scale at which artificialisation should be assessed" when many of you had raised the issue of the parcel. But we need to clarify the initial mesh of artificialization. This lack of definition would be very detrimental to the scheme. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u389	[[Applause on various benches]] I would point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have fallen below the threshold of 2000 amendments; We only have 1995 left to examine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u390	It's worth Cape Horn!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u391	Amendment No 3307 by Mr Dominique Potier was defended at the same time as Amendment No 3305.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u392	Identical amendments Nos 1075 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 2644 by Mr Bernard Perrut are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u393	Identical amendments No. 237 by Mr Dino Cinieri, No. 1072 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, No. 1221 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, No. 2170 by Mr Arnaud Viala, No. 2339 by Mr Gérard Menuel, No. 3240 by Mr Thibault Bazin, No. 4674 by Mr Hervé Saulignac and No. 5144 by Mr Hubert Wulfranc were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u394	I should like to inform the House that, with regard to identical amendments Nos 931 and following, a request for a public vote has been submitted to the Group of the European People's Party. On Article 48, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 1080 by Mr Vincent Descoeur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u395	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor to support Amendment No. 1645.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u396	My colleague Danielle Brulebois' amendment is being defended, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u398	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u400	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u401	Mrs. Lebec? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u402	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u403	I have before me several amendments, Nos 931, 956, 1002, 1317, 1449, 2255, 2633, 2752, 4063, 4899, 6997, 7116, 439, 469, 2609, 2842, 4026, 5715 and 7150, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 931, 956, 1002, 1317, 1449, 2255, 2633, 2752, 4063, 4899, 6997 and 7116 of the one part, 439, 469, 2609, 2842, 4026 and 5715 are identical. Amendments Nos 931 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 956 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 1002 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, 1317 by Mrs Émilie Bonnivard, 1449 by Mrs Valérie Beauvais, 2255 by Mrs Lise Magnier and 2633 by Mr Bernard Perrut were defended. Mr Jacques Cattin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2752.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u404	[[Mr Jean-MarieSermierapplaudit]] The proposal for the creation of transitional zones between agricultural and urban areas aims to prevent conflicts of use, especially since a recent decision by the Constitutional Council invalidated environmental charters that governed the use of pesticides in the vicinity of dwellings, which allowed the reduction of safety distances according to the quality of spraying – the requirements of non-phytosanitary treatment, whether for an agricultural or wine-growing activity or for the garden of an individual with fruit trees, are necessary. The adoption of my amendment would make it possible, when drawing up or amending the local planning plan, to incorporate into it, on the one hand, the requirement of unartificial buffer zones in the creation of new urbanised areas, on the other hand, the question of the commonality of use and the environmental consideration of transitional areas, and, finally, to make the builder, not the farmer or the individual owner of a garden, concerned with the possible conflict of use and neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u405	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u406	Amendments Nos 4063 by Mr Florent Boudié, 4899 by Mr Benoit Simian and 6997 by Mrs Sophie Mette are defended. Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 7116.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u407	I was elected local for almost twenty years, long mayor, and I had to work, like many of us, on urban planning documents, local planning plans, SCOTs, and also on planning operations in my commune. These amendments are interesting because they would make it possible to find a compromise between existing urbanizations and farmers forced to step back in front of them by creating buffer zones between crop and habitat areas. It is useful to consider the future and to impose such buffer zones in future urbanizations in order to avoid further loss of agricultural areas that farmers wish to fully cultivate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u408	In the joint debate, we come to the second set of identical amendments. Amendments Nos 439 by Mrs Valérie Beauvais, 469 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 2609 by Mr Philippe Chalumeau, 2842 by Mr Philippe Huppé, 4026 by Mr Robin Reda, and 5715 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup are defended. Finally, Amendment No 7150 by Mr Julien Aubert is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u409	They raise an important point since they are vegetated transitions between urbanized plots and often agricultural ones. However, they are too policy-oriented to require mayors to predict them without taking into account local specificities and issues. One can very well envisage cases, I am thinking, for example, of plots devoted to organic farming, for which the vegetated transition would not be mandatory. That is why I propose that we discuss this once again, after Article 49, my amendment No 4416, which is the subject of a sub-amendment by Mr Perea: it will make it possible to rely on local elected representatives through their PLU and the planning and programming guidelines to identify cases where urban and rural fringes are necessary. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u411	This series of amendments under discussion concerns cohabitation between the inhabitants living in close proximity to agricultural areas and the farmers themselves. This is obviously an important and sensitive subject on which the Government has commissioned a recent study by ANSES – the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health – to propose protective measures. I would point out that the PLU can already contain sectoral planning and programming guidelines on this subject and that, as the rapporteur has said, Amendment No 4416 will propose to supplement the existing arrangements by providing for the actions and operations necessary to protect urban and rural fringes to be defined. These amendments tend, however, to tighten in a general and non-differentiated manner all the conditions of construction on the edge by requiring withdrawal for any future construction, without taking into account the actual use of pesticides or other substances, regardless of the nature of the crops and farms themselves. In addition, this article deals with the general principles of the urban planning code and not at all with operational declination in urban planning documents. I therefore believe that these amendments go too far and would penalise types of cultures that do not in fact pose any problem of life on the edge. For all these reasons, the opinion is really unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u412	Anything! It's really the living room ecology in all its splendor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u413	You don't like cities, Madam Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u414	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 931, 956, 1002, 1317, 1449, 2255, 2633, 2752, 4063, 4899, 6997 and 7116.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u415	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 106 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 31 Against 64
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u416	I put to the vote Rule 48, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u417	Under these conditions, we're against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u418	You have refused all our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u419	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 115 Number of votes cast 103 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 88 Against 15
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u420	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u421	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u422	I have before me amendments to the Additional Rule after Rule 48. Amendment No 3303 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u423	Amendment No 4645 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin is also being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u424	I have before me fifteen amendments, Nos 142, 183, 267, 602, 800, 1112, 1514, 2563, 3325, 3487, 4585, 4648, 4833, 6033 and 6845, which can be discussed jointly. Fourteen amendments, No 183 et seq., are identical. Mr Girardin's amendment No 142 is being defended. Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 183, the first in the series of identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u425	The aim of this amendment is to include in the forest code the priority of land use already artificialized in the context of the issuance of clearance permits. The aim is to combat the artificialisation of soils and to maintain forested areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u426	Identical amendments Nos 267 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 602 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet, 800 by Mr Pierre Cordier, 1112 by Mr Pierre Vatin, 1514 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and 2563 by Mrs Typhanie Degois are defended. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 3325.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u427	We propose to set a limit on clearances, when it is possible to use an already artificialized land.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u428	Identical amendments Nos 3487 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 4585 by Mr Éric Diard, 4648 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin, 4833 by Mr Bertrand Bouyx, 6033 by Mrs Marie Silin and 6845 by Mr Loïc Prud'homme were defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u429	I fully share the objective of these amendments, which reflect particular attention to forest soils and their allocation. However, the forestry code already contains a provision to this effect: Article L. 341-3 states that "no one may use the right to clear his timber and forests without having previously obtained a permit". The same code states that "any voluntary operation leading to the destruction of the wooded state of a land and the termination of its forest destination" is considered as clearing. In addition, as part of the environmental assessment procedure, I would like to point out that an environmental impact assessment of any clearing project greater than 0.5 hectares may be required, and that it may be required for any project greater than 25 hectares. The link between this authorisation regime and the regime of opening up to urbanization – which we create in articles 48 and 49 of the bill – will enable any new envisaged use of unartificial soil to be legally regulated. This will strengthen the protection of forest areas; It is also the object of the above-mentioned articles. Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u430	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 3328.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u431	I will also defend Amendments Nos 3327 and 3306.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u432	Your amendments Nos 3328, 3327 and 3306 may be the subject of a joint presentation. You have the floor, Mr. Potier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u433	I regret to have missed the opportunity – only a few seconds after the resumption of the sitting – to personally defend Amendment No 3303 which was intended to recognise soil as part of the nation's common heritage by including it in the first paragraph of Article L. 110-1 of the Environmental Code. More pragmatically, Amendments Nos 3328 and 3327 and 3306 concern protected agricultural areas (PAZs), a tool that is very little used – I believe there are only a few dozen in all departments – while they are a very powerful weapon. Indeed, the classification in ZAP allows to guarantee the protection of agricultural soils, except for major reasons and passage before a court that would have authority to reverse this urban planning decision. We propose, in a rather radical way, an extension of this logic to all agricultural areas, so that what was the exception becomes, in a way, a general rule. Amendment No 3306 proposes, in particular, that the procedures for classification in ZAP should be brought up at inter-municipal level, rather than being kept at communal level. On the other hand, we want to make SCOTs the blueprints for the use of natural and agricultural soils, but I will come back to that in a few moments when we come to Amendment No 3326. For now, I'd like to know if you're ready to make the ZAPs a radical weapon against the artificialization of the soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u434	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u435	Mr Potier, the protection of agricultural areas is indeed an important issue. Nevertheless, as you yourself have pointed out, your amendments impose very strong protection. I have already said that I am very committed to planning, but also to the independence and autonomy of local and regional authorities. The elected representatives must be able to define their planning and strategy, as permitted by the clauses of the bill we are considering. Against the artificialisation of the soil, they have the possibility to set up ZAPs: it is up to them to define how they want to develop their territory with objectives that are set for them. In my view, your amendments are far too restrictive – and I would say almost dangerous – for the development of the territories. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u436	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u437	Your amendments would lead to the sanctification of all agricultural land through the establishment of ZAPs in general and uniformly throughout the territory. This would be tantamount to severely restricting the room for manoeuvre of communities in the planning process. In addition, you propose that any change in the allocation of land use should be subject to the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture and the Departmental Agricultural Guidance Committee. In the event of an unfavourable opinion, the decision would be taken by the Prefect, which would constitute a strong recentralisation of urban planning law. Your amendments go too far; That's an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u438	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u439	These amendments, consistent with the listing of land as the nation's common property, aim to raise legal requirements to protect them in a radical way. Of course, this is an obstacle to the free deliberation of the communes, but it is the protection of a common good that is at stake. Edgard Pisani said we will need all the peasants in the world to feed the world. Similarly, in order to feed 10 billion people in 2050, I think we will need all the land in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u440	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u441	Our goal is to protect agricultural spaces, to ensure that a strong agriculture is maintained and to protect our agricultural sovereignty. I would not want our refusal to impose too restrictive a classification of agricultural areas to cast doubt on our willingness to protect our agriculture and our farmers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u442	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u443	It's just the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u444	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 3326.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u445	It proposes a real paradigm shift: it is a question of making SCOTs the guiding diagrams of the use of natural and agricultural soils, in order to ensure the preservation and enhancement of these soils as tools of resilience to climate change and – I could have added it in the explanatory statement – of food security. It's a real innovation. Many of us have built ambitious SCOTs. The one of Meurthe-et-Moselle, a Grenelle SCOT, is one of the largest in France. It was voted unanimously. This work has made it clear to us that it is not enough to distract the soils from urbanization, but it is necessary to ensure that they become. As we recovered a few thousand hectares for agriculture, we saw the same agriculture lose its natural meadows, its ecological infrastructure, its environmental, economic and social added value. We propose that the SCOTs, as soon as they cover the entire national territory, be entrusted with the task of setting out the terms of reference for an agricultural policy in the field of ecological infrastructure – the maintenance of natural grasslands, the orientation of the sectors – which is currently the responsibility of the Departmental Agricultural Guidance Committees, the CDOAs. You will admit, Madam Deputy Minister, that this idea is perfectly consistent with our previous amendments, which were intended to think of the health of the soil as a whole, not only to protect it, but to share it and to use it well. Tomorrow, SCOT must become a tool for the overall governance of land, which is not limited to the partition between urban and agricultural land but which plans the use of the entire land, in connection with the agricultural profession and all stakeholders. We see it as a way forward, a paradigm shift and perhaps the governance of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u446	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u448	I share your vision of the role that SCOTs must play in territorial planning and confirm that a SCOT Grenelle – I have built one – is intended to include agricultural issues. Our goal is to develop SCOTs to make them as effective as possible, and to see them capture these issues. Moreover, it is already possible and I am not convinced that it should be included in the law. The idea deserves reflection, but I will be sending an unfavorable opinion this evening, while hoping that we will be able to deepen the matter in the coming weeks, for example in the debate with the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u449	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u450	To complement the rapporteur's remarks, I would like to point out that among the three pillars on which the SCOTs are based are the ecological and energetic transition and economic activities – including agriculture. So they can already contain the planning you're talking about. The rapporteur is right: this is probably a subject on which we can continue to make progress in the context of the shuttle. At this stage, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u451	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u452	This idea arose from the joint information mission on agricultural land. Today, citizens and local elected representatives are powerless in the face of the liberalisation of the land market, which is not being fought by the State, which has almost renounced its power of regulation, nor by the agricultural profession, which has often left the matter behind. We're trying to protect the soil, but they're out of the commons, away from the agricultural model we want to defend. We are witnessing a real organization of public impotence. Putting the territory at the centre of the soil orientation would be the only revolution that meets the challenges we address, the only way to obtain more resilient public and private territories that combine economic and ecological perspectives. While SCOTs are currently being developed, 90 per cent of the territories that appear to be governed are completely exempt from their requirements. Both citizens and elected representatives are powerless in the face of this dissonance which affects the public management of soil categories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u453	Amendments Nos 4746 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 4720 by Mr Pierre Venteau are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u454	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2912 and 4046. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 2912.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u455	It recalls that the aim is not only "to combat the artificialisation of the soil", but also "to optimize the use of available building spaces". It is common sense: eco-neighbourhoods can be managed in a much more efficient way than at present. Development must aim at these two objectives, not just one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u456	Amendment No 4046 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u457	The amendments propose to clarify that planning projects aim to optimise the use of available building spaces. This is an objective that can only be shared; This is why Article 48 amends the general principles of urban planning, which apply to all development projects within the meaning of Article L. 300-1 of the Urban Planning Code. We have clarified these principles by adding the framework for artificialization and defining the role of densification of available spaces. Article 51a also stipulates that development operations must be subject to a compulsory pre-densification study, which must cover the "optimisation of the density of constructions in the area concerned, taking into account urban quality and the preservation and recovery of biodiversity and nature in the city". The amendments are therefore satisfied and I propose that they be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u458	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u459	Indeed, article 51 bis, which we will examine a little later, provides that any development project subject to environmental authorization must "obligatorily be the subject of a study on the optimisation of the density of constructions in the area concerned" in order to optimize the use of available spaces. Your amendments are fully satisfied with articles 48, 49 and 51a. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u460	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u461	I do not understand, Madam Minister Delegate, the rapporteur: if you agree with my amendment, why do you want me to withdraw it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u462	Because he's satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u463	It would be better to say it, and this clarification would be better placed at the beginning of article L. 300-1 of the urban code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u464	I have before me a series of identical amendments, Nos 238, 1226, 1518, 2171, 2340, 3241 and 4675. Amendments Nos 238 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 1226 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, 1518 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, 2171 by Mr Arnaud Viala and 2340 by Mr Gérard Menuel are defended. Is Amendment No 3241 by Mr Thibault Bazin also so?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u465	It is defended because of the scheduled legislative time, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u466	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 4675.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u467	The amendment by my colleague Hervé Saulignac, working with the National Federation of SCOTs, meets the ambition to strengthen the quality of the development and to make operations for the development of tools of sobriety land and the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u468	Amendment No 7151 by Mr Julien Aubert is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u469	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u470	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u471	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u472	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u473	The amendment would have deserved an answer: the territory hosting an INO, an operation of national interest, should not be penalized by the application of the rules of artificialisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u474	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor on Rule 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u475	Article 49 gives concrete effect to the fight against the artificialisation of soils – a subject that has already been extensively addressed since Article 47 – through planning. The SRADDETs are the entry point for the strategy to reduce space consumption, but all urban planning documents at the level of the intercommunities will have to find the right path. During our discussions in the special committee, we discussed very much the relationship between the decisions of the SRADDET and those to be taken in the urban planning documents of SCOT, PLUI and PLU. We are many to think that if the state is to play its full part in this struggle to reduce the consumption of spaces – its role is enshrined in the text – then we must not forget the territorial responsibility. The territories must also participate: it is a question of "territorializing" the fight – we will hear this word a lot, including in the mouth of the rapporteur-general. The subject has already given rise to a great deal of ink in the amendments and has given rise to heated debate in the special committee. We want to get everyone on board: the communities, but also the operators and planners, all of whom must accompany the movement. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Several amendments I have tabled, like my colleagues like Alain Perea – but we have also raised the subject with Mr Julien Aubert – seek to take account of the existing trajectories of urban planning documents, some of which are already very virtuous. I stress: Article 49 is important, but it must incorporate planning which is already present in urban planning documents, since the law on urban solidarity and renewal, known as SRU. The proposed method is therefore not a discovery, but we must go further, all together. I hope, moreover, that the amendments which will be defended by each other will be listened to carefully.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u476	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u477	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 2273, 3135, 4916, 6230, 7153, to delete Rule 49. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 2273.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u478	I am speaking under the authority of my colleague Sébastien Jumel, the first signatory of the amendment. As you know, we are particularly committed to the skills of the local block. To entrust the fight against the artificialisation of the soil to the region is to ignore the major competence of the mayors and presidents of EPCI in urban planning, which they exercise at the level of proximity. Article 49 seems to us to be an attack on the free administration of territorial authorities and based on a vertical vision of governance – the decision would be taken at the level of the regions, often far from local problems, and imposed by the top. For all these reasons, which have been the subject of so many comments by the National Standards Assessment Council and the Council of State, which pointed out the normative implications of the article, we ask that it be definitively removed from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u479	Amendments Nos 3135 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 4916 by Mr Benoit Simian are being defended. Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No. 6230.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u480	It's an appeal amendment. Article 49 is important in so far as it entails an obligation of result. In its original wording, did its paragraph 27 not emphasize "the goal of reducing the artificialisation of soils"? I have three questions, and I would like the Government to respond. Firstly, like the previous speaker, I remain dubious about the application of a regional scheme, which is far from the ground. By whom will it be established, with what means, with what control? Since it will be binding, elected officials will likely often have to go into litigation, as when it comes to issuing a building permit to a company that will provide employment to 500 employees – 10,000 square meters on which one cannot raise floor. I imagine that there will be derogations; How will they be granted? Secondly, Madam Deputy Minister, I, like you, have an important ambition in terms of the number of houses built: 250,000 in two years, that is the wish of many Members. But how can we reconcile the non-artificialisation of the soil with the construction of 250,000 housing units? I would like to alert MEPs in rural areas: a regional scheme is very far away, and we will probably find ways to artificialise in metropolitan areas by saying that rural areas are the guardians of biodiversity, even though they are the subject of a certain appreciation by metropolitans. [[Ms. SereineMauborgneetM. Charlesde Coursonapplaud]] Madam Deputy Minister, I would finally like to hear you on one point. Reducing the artificialization of soil in a country with a growing population means that constructions are higher, housing is smaller, and density increases. Even if I defend your fight, I do not feel that the lessons learned from the health crisis have been learned, because density remains the first ally of the virus, as the ministers remind us every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u481	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 7153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u482	We believe that the municipalities that have made efforts will not be rewarded by the very globalised way in which you intend to set up this pace of artificialisation. Hence this proposal to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u483	What is the Committee's opinion on the deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u484	We begin a review of a very operational article for local elected officials, which declines the updating of planning or urban planning documents, with deadlines. It would be a matter of concern to me because that is precisely where the legislator trusts the territories. Mr Aubert, if I were against your previous amendment, it is because in Article 49 we are going to talk about national projects. We have talked about it in committee and will include it in this article, as the subject you have just mentioned. As far as regional planning is concerned, six out of eleven SRADDETs already set targets, albeit less ambitious than those we put in the law but which go in the same direction. You mustn't let it seem like it's not happening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u485	These goals are not being met!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u486	Local elected representatives are used to discussions for SRADDET and SCOTs where rural areas are often very powerful, since there are far more rural mayors than mayors of large cities around the table – counts are not necessarily based on population figures but rather on the number of communes. The shortcut that rural areas are abandoned is therefore not true, in any case, in the territories I know. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u487	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u488	This article is essential because it is the article that makes the declarations of principle adopted in articles 47 and 48 effective and operational. Article 47 lays down the general principle, Article 48 lays down it in the general principles of urban planning and Article 49 territorialise. If the deletion amendments were adopted, there would no longer be territorialisation at all and the principles would apply without possible differentiation at the level of the territories and the various urban planning documents. Section 49 ensures that these principles will be applied differently across each territory, first at the regional level and then at the SCOT and then at the PLU or PLUI. I take Mr Jolivet's amendment as an appeal amendment because I do not imagine that he really wants this article to be deleted. It is therefore a request for withdrawal, as with all these amendments. We still have work ahead of us and amendments will be proposed. The special commission worked. It first declined the operationality of the first ten-year period: it voted for the use of the concept of space consumption for the first period. Similarly, territorialisation has been strengthened and will continue to be strengthened as it needs to be strengthened at the level of SCOTs, PLIUs, PLUs and communal maps. Finally, in the case of large-scale projects whose interest exceeds the communal scale or that of the life pool, we will propose amendments that will allow them to be taken into account. Mr Aubert, you wanted, before we came to Article 49, to exclude INOs from the rules on artificialisation. My answer is negative: our logic is to reduce the possibility of artificialization, and it is within this possibility that we must take into account the needs of large operations such as INOs, but also those of large-scale projects outside the framework of national interest. Finally, Mr Jolivet referred to the density and low quality of housing. I believe that we must do exactly the opposite: I asked the builder Laurent Girometti and the architect François Leclercq to rework on the standard of quality of use of individual and collective dwellings. Yes, we lost square meters, or 15 square meters in 25 years for a three-room apartment, and from the ceiling height, it decreased by about 25 centimetres in the apartments of the collective buildings during the same period as the French grew up. We therefore need to review our construction standards, which will be designed to apply to social housing as well as to housing in general. Above all, we will need to continue to build to meet the needs, in already artificialized areas or by optimizing the artificialization when we need to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u489	It's battery chicken rearing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u490	As the rapporteur has pointed out, it is already under discussion in many SRADDET and will be in the development of SCOTs and PLIUs. We relaxed the timetable very strongly in committee: the government version was probably very ambitious, with very rapid cascading adaptations, this calendar has been loosened.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u491	It's untenable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u492	It is democratic debates that must take place at each territorial level. They'll take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u493	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u494	Mr Jumel's amendment, defended by Mr Wulfranc, aims to give back the hand to local elected representatives because it is the right step in regions that are often very large. In wind energy projects, some time ago we had tools of proximity such as the ZDEs, the wind energy development zones; We've moved on to regional patterns and it doesn't work, conflicts rising because decisions are made at a level that's not the right one. Decisions should be encouraged as close as possible to the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u495	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u496	The braking of artificialisation should not be seen as the desire to freeze rural life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u497	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u498	This braking is part of the overall context of our policy, which is to promote urban densification within the framework of the recovery plan, the reconquest of wasteland, the rehabilitation and revitalization of the city centres – a lot of money is devoted to it – with the actions Heart of Town and Small Cities of tomorrow, the greening of urban space, the reduction of urban sprawl... We're not putting our local elected officials in a corner. We need to reconcile two objectives: the national objective, Mr.Aubert, of a 50% reduction, and the fact that urban planning is an area of competence of local authorities. It would be paradoxical to vote at national level for a 50% reduction in artificialisation for the next ten years without looking at how this will be articulated at local level. Article 49 aims at the best possible articulation, as in Article 22 and the declination of multiannual energy programming at regional level. This is not done against local authorities, because they are already very involved in this sobriety of land and, above all, because, in the framework of the SRADDET consultation, there are local elected representatives. It is a constant of this text, its DNA: we trust local and regional authorities. This will not be easy, however, but there are already discussions in SCOTs: sometimes they last and finally people agree. I believe that communities will agree on an objective of national interest, because we trust them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u499	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2963.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u500	This amendment proposes to include in the medium- and long-term objectives set by the SRADDET the objective of reducing the vacancy of commercial accommodation, offices and premises. Together with the Green Economy Committee, Senator Anne-Catherine Loisier and I have noted that housing and business vacancies are increasing. The number of vacant dwellings increased by 80000 per year between 2006 and 2015, equivalent to 20 per cent of the number of new buildings; Idem for commercial holiday, which particularly affects medium-sized cities. Incorporating the goal of reducing the availability of accommodation, offices and commercial premises would also allow communities to know the available stock so as to optimize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u502	I agree with you that we must fight the vacancy. It is a key lever for reducing the artificialization and optimisation of our territories. For this reason, article 48, paragraph 6, refers to "optimization of density". In addition, articles 51 and 51 bis will discuss the issues of urban densification. Perhaps we can go further by examining the amendments to these articles to clarify how densification can be optimised in our territories. Since your amendment is satisfied, I request that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u504	It is also a request for withdrawal because the objective is already contained in the principles. In addition, we are at the regional level of the SRADDET, and the fight against vacant housing and the mobilization of vacant housing is a competence of the communal and intercommunal bloc. I have asked interested communities for a plan to mobilize against vacant housing: they are communes or communities of communes and the answer must really be street by street, mesh by mesh, in very close proximity. I believe that SRADDET is not the place to include the tool to combat the vacancy. In addition, the objectives are already included in other articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u505	Amendment No 900 by Mr Gérard Cherpion is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u506	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 3333.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u507	A question arises with regard to spatial planning as we organize the hierarchy of law and the articulation between SRADDET, SCOT and the future PLUI. When, for example, a region decides to implement a public or private infrastructure with a significant footprint on the ground, in order to ensure an equitable distribution of effort between EPCI and SCOTs in reducing land consumption, it is essential that the SRADDET deduce from the objectives set these artificialised surfaces. In other words, when a region decides to block 100 hectares for a public interest project, it must not be at the disadvantage of other territories. The region must not be judged and a party to the detriment of territorial equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u508	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u509	I don't think you defended the right amendment, Mr. Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u510	[[Smile]] Indeed, I have defended Amendment No 6006, which will be called later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u511	I am left with Amendment No 3333, which is intended to include in the SRADDET the creation of an information document on green and blue frames. The law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as NOTRE, has organized the integration of the green and blue frames that were formerly part of the SRCE, the regional scheme of ecological coherence, into the SRADDET. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. I would add that, on this subject, Mr Pacôme Rupin's amendment No 7227, which we will examine after Article 49, goes further than yours, since it declines what is envisaged at regional level by making mandatory, in the PLU – that is, at the most operational level, that of urban planning documents – the definition of a planning and programming orientation (OAP) which incorporates the provisions of the green and blue frames. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u512	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u513	I have nothing to add to the rapporteur's very comprehensive reply. Let us remember, however, that the green and blue frames are networks formed of ecological continuitys for the biodiversity reservoirs and for the flow of water respectively. They are therefore somewhat less suitable for soil protection, which works less in the form of wefts. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u514	I have before me eight amendments which may be submitted to a joint debate. The seven identical amendments No 211 by Mr Dino Cinieri, No 1133 by Mr Charles de Courson, No 1880 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, No 2352 by Mr Gérard Menuel, No 3243 by Mr Thibault Bazin, No 4033 by Mr Robin Reda, No 4771 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, and No 1526 by Mr Yves Hemedinger are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these eight amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u515	These amendments are intended to clarify the respective roles of SRADDET and SCOT. We discussed this issue at length in a special committee and adopted the amendment by our colleague Alain Perea, which declines the issues of territorialisation covered by the SRADDETs. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u516	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u517	It is also unfavorable because these amendments would not produce the expected results. The objective of the fight against artificialisation is weakened by placing it in the section of the text devoted to the objectives of the SRADDET. Article 49 sets out the objective of artificialisation in the specification of the general rules of the regional scheme, the scope of which is more important. I am therefore opposed in substance to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u518	I have before me a number of amendments, No 895 corrected, No 3129 corrected, No 212, No 1534, No 1890, No 2355, No 3242, No 4034, No 4643, No 1141 and No 5019, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 895 corrected and 3129 corrected are identical. The same applies to Amendments Nos 212, 1534, 1890, 2355, 3242, 4034 and 4643. Amendments Nos 895 corrected by Mr Pierre Vatin, 3129 corrected by Mr Marc Le Fur, 212 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 1534 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, 1890 by Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, 2355 by Mr Gérard Menuel, 3242 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 4034 by Mr Robin Reda are defended. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 4643.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u519	The translation in the booklet of the rules of the SRADDET territorializes the objective of reducing the consumption of land at the sub-regional level at the spatial level, so as not to penalise the virtuous territories – there are – which have already reduced their land consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u520	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 1141.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u521	I have nothing to add to the arguments put forward at the moment by my colleague Michèle Victory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u522	I call Mrs Lasserre to support Amendment No. 5019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u523	It provides for the territorialization of the "zero net artificialization" objective set out in the specification of the general rules of the SRADDET at the SCOT level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u524	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u525	Section 49, paragraph 31, states that in the process of regional cooperation, community land use over the past 10 years must be taken into account in order not to penalize those communities that have already made efforts to reduce land use. This paragraph therefore responds to the legitimate request of the authors of the amendments that account be taken of the efforts made by the territories to reduce their consumption of natural, agricultural and forestry areas. I therefore call on them to withdraw their amendments. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u526	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u527	The summary statements of identical amendments No 895 corrected and 3129 corrected criticise the inclusion of quantified anti-artificialisation objectives in the SRADDET, but the operative part of the amendments deals with territorialisation. These first two amendments are therefore problematic. As for the following, as the rapporteur has just explained, the territorialisation they are proposing is already provided for in the bill. They are therefore satisfied. Therefore, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u528	Amendment No 4310 by Mr Christophe Jerretie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u529	I have before me several amendments, Nos 4028, 299, 1523, 1942, 3245, 1086, 1089, 1093, 4772, 125, 239, 890, 1096, 1231, 1640, 2173, 2359 and 4676, which may be subject to joint discussion, including three sets of identical amendments, first Amendments Nos 299, 1523, 1942 and 3245, then Amendments Nos 1093 and 4772, finally Amendments Nos 125, 239, 890, 1096, 1231, 1640, 2173, 2359 and 4676. Amendments Nos 4028 by Robin Reda, 299 by Émilie Bonnivard, 1523 by Yves Hemedinger, 1942 by Martial Saddier, 3245 by Thibault Bazin, 1086, 1089 and 1093 by Vincent Descoeur, 4772 by Emmanuelle Ménard, 125 by Martial Saddier, 239 by Dino Cinieri, 890 by Pierre Vatin, 1096 by Vincent Descoeur, 1231 by Jean-Claude Bouchet, 1640 by Danielle Brulebois, 2173 by Arnaud Viala and 2359 by Gérard Menuel are defended. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 4676.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u530	In the absence of a definition of the "zero net artificialization" objective in the bill, this amendment, on which we have worked with the National Federation of SCOTs, replaces a legally and technically unclear transcript with a much more meaningful "sobricity" objective. The aim is to strike a balance between the necessary development of rural areas and the control of the artificialisation of the soil, which should be limited as much as possible while taking into account the realities and specificities of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u531	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u532	He's unfavorable. I have already spoken on this subject when we examined Article 48 and discussed the advisability of replacing the concept of artificialisation of land with that of sobriety in the urban code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u533	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u534	Same opinion. This debate was decided by the retention in the text of the definition of artificialisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u535	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1028, 1907, 2272, 2797, 3233, 3244, 3468, 3564, 4683, 4795, 5276, 5937, 1084, 1700, 1734 and 2645, which may be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1907, 2272, 2797, 3233, 3244, 3468, 3564, 4683, 4795, 5276 and 5937 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 1084, 1700, 1734 and 2645. Amendments Nos 1028 by Mr Martial Saddier, 1907 by Ms Jennifer De Temmerman, 2272 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 2797 by Mr David Lorion, 3233 by Mrs Nathalie Porte, 3244 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 3468 by Mr Dino Cinieri are defended. Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor to support Amendment No. 3564.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u536	Like previous amendments, it calls for account to be taken of the reduction in the consumption of natural, agricultural and forestry areas already carried out by certain local and regional authorities. In my region, Brittany, and especially in the country of Brest, we have a long tradition of urban planning. We have long owned a SRADDET and we are one of the first territories to have a SCOT. Our elected representatives have the will to work together. As Mrs Marsaud said in her speech on the article, it is important to take into account the work already done by the elected representatives in order not to penalise the most virtuous territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u537	Amendments Nos 4683 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 4795 by Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, 5276 by Mrs Claire Bouchet, 5937 by Mrs Liliana Tanguy, 1084 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 1700 by Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux, 1734 by Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier and 2645 by Mr Bernard Perrut are defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u538	This series of amendments deals with two subjects. The first is to take into account the efforts already made by local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u539	You mustn't penalize the right students!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u540	As I have already indicated, paragraph 31 of section 49 satisfies this request since it is intended to take into account "the reduction in the consumption of these spaces already carried out in the different parts of the regional territory". I would therefore ask you to withdraw the amendments on this first subject. Demographic issues are the second issue addressed by this series of amendments. These important issues are indeed intended to be taken into account in territorialisation, but I invite you to withdraw your amendments in favour of Amendment No 4733 by Mrs Valérie Petit, which will meet your expectations in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u541	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u542	I agree with the rapporteur. Territorialization and taking into account the efforts already made by the territories are important issues. This aspect of the text was reinforced by the work of the special commission: on the one hand, with the obligation to territorialise the objectives in the SRADDET; On the other hand, with the mention, in paragraph 31, of a decree in the Council of State in which the criteria of territorialisation which are necessary for the regions will take account of the reduction of the consumption of natural, agricultural and forestry areas already carried out in the various parts of the regional territory. This legitimate concern is therefore fully integrated into the bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u543	Amendment No 4242 by Mr Christophe Jerretie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u544	The rapporteur's amendment No 2660 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u545	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 6006.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u546	You will have understood, Mr President, that I defended it earlier, by speaking on Amendment No 3333. It relates to the hierarchy of the large equipment of the SRADDET, which cannot be included in the accounting of the SCOTs, therefore in the equitable distribution of the effort to be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u547	I understood, Mr. Potier, but thank you for reminding me... What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u548	This one's the one! He's even very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u549	This subject had already been discussed during the examination of the text in committee. According to the Government, national projects now account for about 2 per cent of artificialization. This does not mean that it should not be dealt with, but this aspect can be integrated and identified at the level of the objectives we set. In view of our work, I would ask for this amendment to be withdrawn in favour of my amendment No. 3109, which deals with paragraph 31 and is the subject of a sub-amendment by Mr Perea: I referred to it earlier. Otherwise, the opinion of the opposing committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u550	Identical amendments Nos 4080 by Mrs Danielle Brulebois and 5133 by Mrs Pascale Boyer are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u551	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 5257.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u552	This amendment due to my colleague Valérie Petit aims to take into account the vacancy of the premises and the already artificialised areas. These parameters are absent from the text, while the fight against the vacancy of premises is a major tool for limiting construction and artificialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u553	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u554	I invite you to withdraw this amendment for the benefit of point 4733, also tabled by Mrs Valérie Petit: it is more precise and better written. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u555	Amendments Nos 3246 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 695 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, which can be discussed jointly, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u556	Amendment No 4647 by Mr Hervé Saulignac is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u557	Amendment No 240 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u558	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-14-O1248.u559	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The meeting is adjourned.
