ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u1	The next item is the swearing-in before the National Assembly of two alternate judges to the Court of Justice of the Republic. According to article 2 of the Organic Law on the Court of Justice of the Republic, parliamentary judges "swear and promise well and faithfully to perform their duties, to keep the secret of deliberations and votes and to conduct themselves in all ways as worthy and loyal judges". I ask the judges to rise to the call of their name and, raising their right hand, to reply with the words: "I swear. » [[Nicole Dubré-Chiratse rose and said, "I swear. »]] I'm calling Mrs. Nicole Dubré-Chirat. [[Xavier Bretonse rose and said, "I swear. »]] I'll call Mr. Xavier Breton. [[Applause on many benches]] Act is therefore given by the National Assembly oaths that have just been taken before it. We congratulate you and express our gratitude for what you will do in this important function.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u2	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate after the accelerated procedure, relating to libraries and the development of public reading (No. 4240, 4484).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u3	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u4	Libraries are the first public cultural equipment of locality in France, both in number – 16500 institutions – and in terms of the size and diversity of the audiences they host – they have about 12 million users. Nearly 13,000 local and regional authorities, municipalities, intercommunal authorities or departments, provide these places of culture and education throughout the country, devoting nearly 1.7 billion euros each year to this public service. As a result, more than 85 per cent of French citizens have access to a library in their communes. The State is taking part in this effort in favour of libraries and public reading. In addition to university libraries, it manages two national libraries, the Bibliothèque nationale de France (BNF) and the Bibliothèque publique d'information (BPI). It also accompanies local and regional authorities to help them modernize their libraries and maintain the vitality of public reading. The partnership between local authorities and the state around libraries is remarkable from my point of view. While reading has been declared a "great national cause", the present quinquennium will remain a particularly strong moment in this relationship. Based on the diagnosis made by Erik Orsenna in 2018, the local authorities and the state have strengthened their collaboration to extend the opening hours of libraries, diversify their missions and accompany the training of professionals. As a result of the resulting library plan, the Government has increased the resources allocated to communities through the general allocation of decentralization (DGD), the stimulus plan and a strengthened contracting policy. A real dynamic has emerged and the results are there: between 2016 and today, more than 710 municipalities have seen their media libraries extend their opening hours by eight thirty hours a week. Nearly 11.5 million French people can benefit from increased service, especially in the most fragile territories. This "library moment" is now being implemented legislatively through the initiative of a bill that will finally allow us to enshrine the essential role of our libraries in the heritage code. Although the library sector does not escape – of course – the law, it is surprising to note the weakness of its presence in our body of legislation. Where the Heritage Code grants more than sixty articles of law to archives and thirty to museums, only five are to libraries. The relative poverty of this legislative framework has led to many debates among professionals – but not just among them – over whether or not to legislate on libraries for decades. Several attempts have been made, but they have not been successful. I believe that the time has come to bring libraries fully into the law, thanks to a text that presents several advances. First, it makes it possible to recall that the cultural, educational, social and playful missions of libraries are in keeping with the principles of pluralism of the currents of ideas and opinion and neutrality of the public service. More than ever, libraries must remain spaces of freedom and places of democratic respiration; their professionals must be protected from censorship as well as from political, religious or social pressure. Their collections must reflect the diversity of opinions. Secondly, libraries must remain accessible to all, freely and free of charge. It is important that the law endorse a principle of consensus that constitutes one of the cardinal conditions for the success of libraries and their mission. Thirdly, the law accompanies the rise of collaborations between local and regional authorities, while respecting their free administration and reaffirming the vital role of departmental libraries in support of small libraries, particularly rural ones. The examination of the text in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has made it possible to enrich it, in particular by supplementing the mission of libraries in the field of cultural mediation and respect for the principle of mutability, and by allowing State and territorial libraries to sell books for which they no longer have use and belong to the private domain, in particular to foundations, philanthropic associations or social and solidarity economy enterprises. Such contributions are welcome. These advances take the form of an expected text, which is likely to be the subject of a broad consensus, in the same way as that which exists with regard to the role of libraries, which are so dear to our fellow citizens. For all these reasons, the Government fully supports the spirit and letter of Sylvie Robert's bill – which I welcome in the fora – on libraries and the development of public reading. I committed myself to the Senate last June for a speedy continuation of the legislative process to review the text; I am pleased that this afternoon it is being discussed in your House and I hope that, as in committee a few days ago, there will be broad support on all of its benches. (Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens., UDI-I and FI groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u5	Mrs Florence Provendier, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u6	Yesterday morning, the President of the Republic said on France Inter: "I think we all have to look at the situation in the face, the situation is terrible for Afghan women today. [...] There are many who, in recent years, have been able to access education, [...] art, and who, suddenly, have seen all the windows and doors closed. This statement by Emmanuel Macron, which combines dramatic news, reminds us of the extent to which access to culture, books and libraries is a fundamental right, the deprivation of which makes us enslaved. This is what Delphine Minoui tells us about Daraya's book smugglers. The opening of an underground library, gathering all the books exhumed from the rubble of the city, is an act of strong resistance on the part of this Syrian rebel suburb to the oppression and tyranny of the Damascus regime. Out of the rubble, books become "a weapon of mass instruction", a door to freedom. We all have images of self-deafs, books destroyed on stakes, libraries vandalized by fanatics. I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, whatever our origins, our paths and our political families, that we are fully aware of this: libraries are much more than places filled with books placed on shelves. They're real cultural smugglers. But let's go back to the genesis of the text that we are looking at at at the initiative of Senator Sylvie Robert, whom I salute. The bill on libraries and the development of public reading follows on from her report on "adaptation and extension of the opening hours of public libraries" and the report she wrote with Senator Colette Mélot on "extension of the opening hours of public libraries". The text is also in line with the rapporteur's report. Érik Orsenna and Noël Corbin, entitled "Travel to the Country of Libraries: Read Today, Read Tomorrow," which is a reference in our committee. It also echoes the flash mission on the follow-up to the Orsenna-Corbin report, of which our colleagues Aurore Bergé and Sylvie Tolmont were rapporteur. While libraries are the first cultural equipment in France, so far they are not the subject of any law, unlike museums and archives, apart from five small articles in the heritage code. The purpose of this bill, adopted unanimously by the Senate in June 2021, is to reaffirm the missions of the territorial libraries, as well as the main principles that guide their action, in particular the free and equal access, the free and plurality of the collections, as well as the equality, neutrality and mutability of the public service. It was also adopted unanimously by the Committee on Cultural Affairs, which enriched it; I'll be back in a minute. The 16,500 libraries that make up our territory are the first facilities that give us access to knowledge. The text also recalls that they constitute, preserve, communicate and transmit collections, documents and objects, as well as a heritage. It is a plural, graphic, photographic, linguistic, historical and scientific heritage. Libraries are these vessels that open the doors of self-knowledge, of others and of the world. These spaces of freedom are motors of individual emancipation that allow everyone to better understand each other, forge their identity and find their place in the city. They also enable people to live together by reducing social and territorial inequalities, contributing to citizenship and the full exercise of democracy. For example, I wanted the text to contain a measure whereby libraries guarantee equal access for all to culture, information, education, research, knowledge and leisure, and promote the development of public reading. During the hearings in which I participated and the visits I made, I was able to see the remarkable work done by librarians who, professional or volunteer, are fully engaged to ensure everyone's access to culture. I am thinking in particular of the teams of the media library Valentin Haüy, who carry out exceptional work to offer collections adapted to the needs of audiences with disabilities or prevented from reading. The establishment thus makes available 20,000 books in Braille and more than 50,000 audio books. This association expands partnerships with local and international libraries, in order to allow all those who are prevented from having effective access to reading. In this respect, while France plans to catch up with the implementation of the European Accessibility Directive, we still have a lot of progress to make in terms of inclusion, including in libraries. Indeed, 96% of content remains inaccessible to persons with disabilities. Similarly, illiteracy affects 7% of the population aged 18 to 65, while almost 17% of French people are affected by illiteracy. These two realities deprive our fellow citizens of access to reading and widen the gap of digital exclusion. This bill must take into account these challenges that we have already been made aware of through the determined commitment of our colleagues Béatrice Descamps – as far as disability is concerned –, Béatrice Piron and Stephanie Atger – in the fight against illiteracy and illiteracy – and Pierre-Alain Raphan, who constantly alerts us to the risks of illiteracy. It also seemed to me to be necessary to clarify that the cooperation of libraries with other cultural, educational and social organizations, as well as with prisons, is at the heart of their missions and gives rise to a rich and virtuous emulation. In this capacity, I salute the work of the associations Reading is living and reading to get out of it, which intervene in prison. They contribute to one of the prison's major tasks, namely the reintegration of prisoners, through reading. Moreover, through their mediation efforts, libraries are true actors of cultural democracy. Librarians are stepping up their initiative and involvement to direct users to content that suits them and does not hesitate to deploy outside the walls. Some associations go even further, as do Libraries without Borders with its ideas box or ATD Quart Monde with its street libraries, which go to meet audiences far from reading. Libraries must also adapt to changing usages and technologies, particularly digital ones, as reflected in the reference to the principle of mutability of public service, which I wanted to add to the fundamental principles underlying their missions. Libraries are also plastic places, "third places", "places of life" and not just "places of the book", in the words of the Orsenna-Corbin report. A clear example of this is the Aimé Césaire de La Courneuve media library, installed in an old metallurgy plant, which it shares with an administrative centre. It has created playful spaces – one dedicated to the plastic arts, the other to video games – or an auditorium, in order to encourage the inhabitants of the neighbourhood to design the media library as a living place, a "community lounge", as defined in the guiding principles of the International Federation of Library Associations (IFLA) and UNESCO. In addition to being cultural spaces, libraries are spaces of life, exchanges, human encounters and link different activities. Librarians play a key role here: they promote the link between the various services offered, adapt and anticipate the needs of their audiences. For example, in La Courneuve, the media library offers support to users in their administrative processes, weekly French courses or books in the native language of readers. Within this ecosystem, departmental libraries play a structuring role in networking libraries in their territories, both in the allocation of documents and objects, and in the advice and training of librarians. Departments should have an obligation to maintain, maintain and operate them. Finally, just as there is not only one life in life, books can have several lives. In order to promote the development of public reading and to facilitate the "weeding" carried out by libraries, i.e. the removal of collections from books for which they no longer have use, I have wished, together with my colleagues, that they have the legal right to give books to associations, foundations or organizations of the social and solidarity economy, who can sell them themselves. This already widespread practice allows them to avoid throwing millions of pounds into the pile and participates in the circular economy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] I thank the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education for the trust it has given me and those who make libraries all over France live. I dedicate to them the phrase of Julien Green: "a library is the crossroads of all the dreams of humanity".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u7	In the general debate, Mr Michel Larive spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u8	On September 12, the eighth edition of the National Days of Action against Illiteracy was completed, organized by the National Agency for Combating Illiteracy (ANLCI). This scourge affects about 2.5 million of our citizens, who face significant difficulties in finding or working, in their administrative procedures or in their daily actions. I would therefore like to begin by welcoming this parliamentary initiative on libraries and the development of reading. These two key issues are rarely highlighted and have received too little support from successive governments. I am therefore pleased that today we are debating public policy for the development of libraries and reading. The reforms carried out by the current majority in this sector have been carried out at the expense of staff. This was the case, in particular, when the opening hours of libraries were extended on Sundays decided by the Government following the Orsenna-Corbin report. Employees observed in several cities that this extension of opening hours had not led to any additional recruitment. In some places, other user reception beaches have even been removed, including those reserved for school audiences. In Paris, for example, the downsizing has led to a reduction in opening hours in the morning or during school holidays. This is a symptom of the Government's method, which never provides the means to implement the reforms it adopts. Of course, the appropriations of the Library Plan have increased from €80.4 million to €88.4 million in 2018, but they are not sustainable since this funding cannot exceed five years. This raises the question of how communities will be able to maintain the jobs created after the deadline has expired. The only solution put on the table by Mr Orsenna is to hire young people in civic service or to use precarious contracts, as if the job of librarian was not a full, specific and demanding specific skills and qualifications. A bifurcation of public policy in favour of libraries and the development of reading is therefore absolutely necessary. This text has the merit of incorporating some main principles in the law: free access to local libraries, pluralism of collections, or the donation of books that have become useless. However, it does not address the tensions in the sector: it does not safeguard the rights of staff in the face of the extension of opening times, does not ensure equal access to libraries throughout the national territory, does not develop actions outside the walls in favour of reading, does not improve the participation of users in the operation of libraries and does not protect the profession of full librarian, at a time when the number of contractors is increasing sharply. Moreover, article 2, which provides for the inclusion in the Heritage Code of the principle of free access to municipal and inter-municipal libraries, does not mention the health pass. The latter is mandatory to access libraries, but not to enter bookstores or shopping centres, which is a first inconsistency. The second inconsistency is that university libraries, the Bibliothèque publique d'information, the Bibliothèque nationale de France and specialized libraries are not subject to the obligation to present the health pass. I therefore take this opportunity to support the petition initiated by the librarians who have been on strike for several weeks in many cities in France. Their request indicates their incomprehension with the Government's position, which persists in refusing to exempt health pass libraries. I quote them: "The sudden classification [...] of municipal and inter-municipal libraries in the list of places subject to the health pass system creates unequal access to institutions that define themselves by their unconditional accessibility to all citizens, and which had been able to adapt perfectly to the health crisis by remaining open continuously since May 2020, thanks to strict health protocols". Beyond this obstacle to reading, they point out that "part of the most precarious population uses libraries for Internet access or for administrative or social assistance". This use is no longer permitted for weeks and will be made even more complicated in ten days, when PCR tests will no longer be free. I therefore regret that the opportunity to denounce this obstacle to freedom of access to libraries and reading has not been seized. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] In short, and in conclusion, this text seems relatively consensual, but lacks ambition for a true public policy in favour of libraries and the development of reading. That is why we will accompany this bill, but we will use the analysis of the amendments to make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u9	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u10	While libraries often represent the first public cultural equipment and constitute an issue of very important cultural and social dynamism in our territories, we only talk about it very rarely. I therefore take this opportunity to welcome, on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, all the local actors – elected, agents but also many volunteers – who work in libraries and provide a public service of proximity and quality, appreciated and generally recognized by all. In recent years, we recognize that libraries have regained a place in our reflections and debates, thanks in particular to the mission entrusted to Erik Orsenna and to Noël Corbin. I welcome our colleague Senator Sylvie Robert, who initiated this bill, which has the merit of proposing a more comprehensive legal framework than currently exists. The definition of missions is broad, and underlines the protein and multi-service nature of libraries, in line with the will expressed in the Orsenna-Corbin report. The text reflects in particular the central role of libraries in access to culture, understood in a broad sense. Some of the provisions contained therein are almost part of the symbol. This is the case with article 8 on the qualifications of agents, or articles 2 and 3 on the principles of freedom and free access to libraries. We understand and support the objective. Beyond symbols, it is the efforts, particularly financial ones, made in recent years on the ground – mainly by local authorities – and accelerated since the Orsenna-Corbin report, that must be maintained. They are in the direction of better access to libraries, notably through the extension of opening hours. It is imperative that these efforts continue and even increase. However, there are territorial inequalities in access to libraries. Some areas are even without establishments, both in rural areas and in priority areas of city policy. In the area of librarianship, which is constantly evolving, a deep reflection on training is needed, as users no longer go to the library only to borrow a book. The bill also enshrines the diversity and variety of the missions of libraries. Care must therefore be taken to accompany the development of the profession. You are aware that the National Assembly finally adopted, on 8 April, the law on the heritage protection and promotion of regional languages, which I had the honour to defend. The first two articles, which refer in particular to the Heritage Code, have made it possible to classify the French language and regional languages as national treasures and to affirm that the State and local authorities contribute to the teaching, dissemination and promotion of these languages. It is therefore consistent that our group will propose, during the discussion of this text in session, amendments aimed at integrating the dissemination and promotion of linguistic heritage into the missions of libraries. Some may think that culture is only expressed in French. Well, no! It is expressed in many other languages, including regional languages spoken in France. I will be able to defend this position here. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore support this bill, but insists on the means necessary to ensure its practical application on the ground, in order to meet the expectations of both users and agents and to strengthen the role and tasks of libraries and public reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u11	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u12	I am pleased that today we are debating a bill on libraries and the development of public reading, two essential levers of emancipation. Of course, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the staff of the libraries, the agents who work daily in favour of reading and culture for all. I know and share their fears about the generalisation of the health pass, which children must now present from the age of 12. Access to libraries has been subject to mandatory control since July, even though, at the time of the last confinement, they had been treated like other public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u13	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u14	While vaccination of the greatest number of people is an objective that we wish to achieve, this is a challenge to the missions of libraries and to the principle of unconditional public access. Like officers, I am also concerned about the impact that this could have on their mediation work with a variety of audiences, particularly the most remote ones, those that need to be sought. I can testify to their work of "going to" in my constituency, in schools, in parks or in homes so that all audiences have access to reading, want books and culture. It is essential to allow them to continue. The purpose of this bill is to provide a framework for the public reading sector, the only cultural sector that – despite the nearly 16500 libraries and media libraries in our territory – has not yet been included in the law. It had to be addressed, it was an imperative necessity. I thank the one who took the initiative. More than just places where books are deposited, libraries play a major role in local life. As places of culture and commonality, they ensure a genuine policy of mediation towards very different audiences, especially the youngest and furthest from culture. The articles of the bill fill a gap by using words and expressions that are broad enough, in my view, to take account of recent and future developments. They affirm great principles such as freedom and free access to libraries or the pluralism of collections and address an important issue, the gift of books. These great principles enshrine the primary mission of libraries: to be a formidable tool in the service of human emancipation. The bill also legitimizes the daily and hard work of library agents. This welcome text must of course be accompanied by means towards libraries. We know that, in many cases, the decline in government allocations has had the effect of sacrificing budgets for community cultural policies, including public reading, thereby strengthening territorial inequalities. The closure of libraries in working-class neighbourhoods is a consequence. Yet the stakes are high. According to the Observatory of Inequalities, 43% of the population over 15 years of age did not read any books in 2012. The gap between social circles continues to widen: in the same year, the share of non-readers of books was nearly 3.5 times higher among workers than among executives, according to INSEE. We also know how much social and cultural inequalities are correlated, and more so in our country than in others. Libraries also operate with fewer and fewer staff. The question of extending working hours is obviously legitimate; We must invest in human and financial resources because we do not open a library like we open a shop. In addition, I prefer to open up better than open up more – an adage with which librarians, I believe, will agree. This obviously begins with the annual organization of territorial librarian competitions. The needs are crying out. Librarians cannot be replaced by volunteers, civic volunteers or students because they are librarians, it is a real profession. For example, it is urgent to increase the point of index to catch up with the 15% loss of purchasing power experienced by these professionals in 15 years. As you will have understood, our group welcomes this proposal for a law, with a blessing, however, concerning the a priori control referred to in Article 7. We will support this text, a step towards full recognition of the work of the agents and the public service mission of the libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u16	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u17	It is fortunate that we are sometimes discussing in the Chamber subjects that bring us together, regardless of the benches we occupy or our political origins, and which also bring together the National Assembly and the Senate. I, of course, welcome the one who initiated this bill and thank Senator Sylvie Robert for being here with us. I would like to share with you some convictions on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move. The first concerns the visibility of libraries. So far, when we talked about cultural policy, libraries were not often highlighted, they were not necessarily the first cultural tool or object mentioned in the public or political debate. The fact that the President of the Republic chose to remedy this and to entrust a mission to Erik Orsenna and to Noël Corbin – authors of the report "Travel to the country of libraries, read today, read tomorrow" – allowed the obvious to give an expected and necessary visibility to the first cultural equipment close to the French: our libraries. The means have also been strengthened, not only to extend the opening times of our libraries but also to allow the creation of libraries in our communes, including the most rural ones. I have again very recently inaugurated two of these establishments in rural communes with 800 inhabitants that offer cultural mediation of proximity – because a library is indeed a living place. The second conviction concerns the issue of access, which has already been raised by several speakers. This law guarantees it by recalling the main principles: pluralism, freedom or free. But to allow access, we must also go to the public, open the doors of cultural institutions that we sometimes hesitate to cross – or even break the walls internalized by some of us who dare not enter these places. In their report, Erik Orsenna and Noël Corbin refer to this situation by referring to "It's not for me". Libraries must, of course, belong to each of the French. This is the objective of this bill, which increases the visibility of these places and reaffirms the main principles that govern them. We have adopted an amendment from the debate in committee which aims to strengthen the issues of cultural mediation and the exercise of the cultural rights of the French. Once again, the library exists only by the public who make it up and by the professionals who allow it to be accessed. I would like to give you the example of Bib in Dunkirk, an exceptional place. I was able to see that a neighbourhood had been redesigned and revitalized from the cultural equipment of the library. It is thanks to the integration of this establishment within the city, its openness and even its architecture, that this district was completely reinvested by its inhabitants, that the social mix was able to settle there and that the library became a place of life. Open forty-two hours a week, Bib is frequented by both the students and the most affluent people as well as those who are said to be far away but who, of course, since we know how to address them, find the right path. I would also like to pay tribute to all the municipal and associative libraries in our territory. In this regard, I would like to express a concern that we have already raised in committee – this issue may be raised in the next debate on decentralization. When local authorities seize the opportunities available to them, decentralization is a formidable tool, but when they withdraw and give up their efforts to promote cultural policies, it is unfortunately very difficult to go back. We suffered from this type of situation in the Yvelines when, overnight, the departmental council decided to abolish the departmental library, resulting in a decrease in the number of training courses and a decrease in the resources, including for rural communes that have no money to acquire books or train the necessary staff. Access to culture is thus sacrificed. Finally, I would like to recall what libraries offer to all of us as citizens. I am of course thinking of the essential stake they represent for emancipation, for the fight against social and territorial inequalities or for the full exercise of our cultural rights and democracy – as we have seen during the great national debate, as some meetings have been held in these places. I would like to give you another example, Charlevil'reading, a public reading project conducted in Charleville-Mézières – which inspired an amendment on the fight against illiteracy, which Béatrice Piron and I defend on behalf of our group. I will quote from a person who has benefited from this programme to combat illiteracy: "I have progressed in the language, I have passed my driver's license, I dare, I have found a job, I watch over my child's education, I have fewer nightmares. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] By fighting illiteracy, we simply promote entry into citizenship. That is also the objective of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u18	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u19	Libraries are temples of knowledge and sensitive experience of the world. We are committed to it. They contain treasures accessible to all thanks to the principles of freedom and free access that have just been usefully enshrined in the text we are studying today. So far, our right to libraries has been weak, despite the place these 15,000 institutions occupy in our local cultural life. This bill therefore enshrines these places of culture in the heritage code. It gives a welcome legislative definition – it did not exist so far, which is incomprehensible. It is also fair to have highlighted the role of animation, beyond conservation, among the missions assigned to libraries. It is indeed by creating an effervescence around the works that their appeal is strengthened. This bill thus has the merit of linking libraries and developing public reading, as they go hand in hand. In this regard, it is very relevant to structure policies in favour of public reading at the departmental level. It is the departments that best embody the balance of each territory. We therefore approve of entrusting the territorial network to the departmental libraries. The consequence of this measure is the development of a department-wide plan for the development of public reading, validated by the departmental assembly. Local elected representatives should indeed be involved in this public policy in a sense of proximity. In the Drôme, together with the departmental council, we have put in place a departmental plan for public reading. It offers an accompaniment to the 118 communal libraries, structured by five departmental media libraries spread over the territory. Local libraries are affiliated with the various territorial media libraries. With this successful local experience, I can only support the development of departmental planning for public reading. Moreover, the development and implementation of a public reading development scheme at the level of inter-communities naturally prolongs this ambition at the lower level. However, the development of public reading requires resources. The extension of the special assistance of libraries within the general allocation of decentralisation to all groups of local and regional authorities, as well as to public cultural cooperation institutions and public interest groups managing libraries, should therefore be welcomed. Let us also mention the notions of pluralism, diversity and renewal of collections, equal access and neutrality of the public service. All these principles, which will now be anchored in our law, ensure the quality of library activity. In the end, the balance and scope of this text are particularly valuable. This bill, passed unanimously by the Senate, can only receive our concurrence. The Republican Group will vote in favour of it, hoping that it will also receive unanimity in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Béatrice Descamps and Mr Benoit Potterie also applaud]] To conclude, I have in mind this quote from Victor Hugo who told us that "the light is in the book". Let us always keep this light accessible to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u20	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u21	On 17 June, the President of the Republic declared the reading of the great national cause for the years 2021 and 2022; Emmanuel Macron then intended to give his full place to the development of the book industry, reminding us at the same time that a society cannot exist without reading. That is why I am pleased that this bill is being considered on the same day as the proposed law to improve the book economy, a text that will, I am convinced, ensure greater support for this sector, which is still facing major difficulties today. But if we want to reach all citizens, without distinction of any kind, through the achievement of the presidential objective, libraries anchored as close as possible to our territories must also be at the heart of our strategy. The bill we are discussing is part of this movement because it aims to define a precise and ambitious legislative framework for libraries, which will be based on three principles: freedom of access, free access and pluralism of collections. Before proceeding further, I would like to return for a moment to the legislative work that led to this bill. Indeed, it has been a few years now that a political reflection has been initiated on both the legal status of libraries and the changes envisaged in their missions. In this context, I would like to welcome the parliamentary work carried out in our two chambers, which led to the publication of Erik Orsenna's and Noël Corbin's report on the one hand, and the information report by Sylvie Robert and Colette Mélot on the other, the conclusions of which drew the contours of the text we are considering. From this work has emerged a balanced proposal for a law which, through the revision of their status and missions, reflects the movement of openness made by libraries in recent years. The discussions we had in committee thus reflected the consensus that unites us with regard to the objectives pursued and the mechanism presented, which allowed us to incorporate provisions that are in the right direction. Thus, Article 1 focuses on work to define libraries within the Heritage Code. This provision appears to be essential as it contributes to the recognition of the central role of libraries, taking into account, in particular, their less visible but very real missions. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group fully subscribes to the amendments voted in committee, which recall that the missions of mediation, cooperation and development of public reading are inherent in libraries. On this article, as well as on Article 5, our group will defend amendments aimed at adding the dissemination and promotion of linguistic heritage to the fundamental principles applicable to libraries. Indeed, while since 2008, the Constitution recognizes regional languages as an integral part of France's heritage, it is essential that libraries should also be committed to promoting its richness and diversity. We also support the inclusion, at the initiative of the rapporteur, of the principle of mutability among those which libraries must respect because, at a very digital time, it is important that they be able to adapt their services to technological developments and users. With regard to Article 5, the amendment we have adopted in committee to remind us that library collections must be free from any form of ideological, political, religious or commercial censorship, seems more necessary than ever at the time when this House has just adopted a text that aims to ban conversion therapies. In section 8, an amendment by our colleague Blandine Brocard will provide an opportunity for you, Madam Minister, to clarify the qualifications expected of library officers. In fact, in the small communes, they only rotate thanks to the action of volunteers. Can you assure us that they can continue to work in this framework? Finally, our group particularly supports the possibility for libraries to transfer to associations or foundations the works for which they would no longer be used. This measure will enable them to combat the nonsense of wasting books as well as participating in the circular economy. The possibility for philanthropic associations and companies in the social and solidarity economy – such as Emmaus – to resell the books and CDs received in this context seems essential to us and we are pleased that such a provision has been adopted in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr Benoit Potterie also applauds]] For all these reasons, the happy Member whom I am to have, in his constituency, among other cities, Laxou, which has two media libraries, one municipal, the other departmental, confirms that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the adoption of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u22	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u23	While they contribute to making sense and serve as a benchmark for objective knowledge in an information society that is increasingly being debated, libraries remain the only cultural sector that has not been the subject of a specific law and remains in a form of legal insecurity that needs to be addressed. That is the whole meaning of this bill, adopted, and it is notable, unanimously in the Senate and by our Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. We therefore owe the debate we are addressing to Socialist Senator Sylvie Robert, whose presence in the gallery I welcome. I pay tribute to the permanence of her convictions and her commitment to the libraries of which she is the ardent defender. As the first public cultural equipment, libraries, a common property to which the French are particularly attached, sometimes even constitute, for rural territories like mine, the bulk of cultural property. Their territorial network provides a public service open to all who contribute to the well-being and quality of life in a territory as well as to its attractiveness. Maintaining the density of this network in the most fragile areas is an imperative need, as we stressed, my colleague Aurore Bergé and myself, during our flash mission on the follow-up to the Orsenna-Corbin report. Indeed, in view of the acceleration of the dematerialisation of public services envisaged among the objectives of the Public Action Plan 2022 – objectives which unfortunately only reinforce the inequalities of access to rights and the risks of exclusion of a number of users – libraries, thanks to their social mediation mission, allow the care of audiences in situations of digital exclusion. But they have so far suffered, I recalled, from a certain lack of legislative framework, notwithstanding a first step with the 2017 Ordinance under the 2016 Freedom of Creation, Architecture and Heritage Act. With the desire to act on the changes in libraries and the evolution of their missions, which now far exceed only access to books and reading, Senators have therefore wished to include nine articles in the Heritage Code, designed to strengthen the role and missions of the libraries of local and regional authorities and their groups in accordance with the freedom of administration of the communities. Thus, three major principles are enshrined for the first time in the law: freedom of access to libraries, free access, which ensures equal accessibility for all, and the pluralism of collections. As these principles become the creators of rights, in particular the latter, libraries will have the necessary tools to cope with the ideological and societal pressures they sometimes face. A small reservation, however, was that while senators had ensured that section 12 allowed libraries to divest, free of charge – in order to preserve copyright – their funds that had become unemployed to certain non-profit organizations, this balanced provision was abandoned during the committee review, at the risk of disrupting the used book industry. Moreover, in order to ensure that the momentum for a proactive policy towards libraries did not fall back, Aurore Bergé and I recommended maintaining the level of appropriations in the next financial laws and sustaining the support of the State beyond the five years of funding allowed by the DGD's share of libraries. We therefore hope that the PLF for 2022 will be up to date in this area. Finally, I would like to take advantage of this debate to raise a point of stress which is currently mobilising, Madam Minister, the librarians in particular, whom I would like to welcome, of course, here: this is the health pass. Indeed, applied in a differentiated manner to libraries, it undermines the principle of free access to a free public service, open to all, without discrimination and without the need to justify its use. The health pass affects the attendance of institutions, particularly in the case of precarious and isolated audiences, and its application raises questions about the Government's recognition of the social role and access to information technology in libraries. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] But, in addition to these remarks, the Socialist and Allied Group, which I have the honour to represent, will confirm its favourable vote in favour of a text that highlights all the actors involved in the book professions and in public reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u24	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u25	My first words will be for Senator Sylvie Robert and her colleague Colette Mélot: I thank them for their commitment to libraries, books, culture and knowledge. Then a word for you, Madam Minister, because the Government is already acting. For example, the Libraries Plan provides for more than €8 million to extend opening hours, and the Recovery Plan devotes an additional €15 million to their construction and renovation. Thank you for being at the meeting of culture, at the meeting of our libraries and for our knowledge. The report by Erik Orsenna and Noël Corbin gave us prospects for the future. Erik Orsenna writes that these are essential places that our libraries, "book places but also, and so much, places of living", places of sharing, places of culture. My colleague Anne-Christine Lang and I have emphasized in Paris the importance of the topic since 2018 by asking for the extension of the schedules of municipal libraries, a major issue. Many citizens hope to see them open on Sundays and evenings, so that everyone can enjoy these places of culture. The flash mission of our colleagues Tolmont and Bergé has also advocated a greater openness of our libraries. Thanks to the proposal for a law and thanks to the work of the rapporteur Florence Provenier, we are moving forward in consolidating access to culture, knowledge. The text seeks to guarantee freedom and free access to libraries, as well as the pluralism of collections, an essential issue in a world where pressure may be placed on librarians. The text will also allow for greater consideration of new practices, notably through the development of digital technologies, which make collections more accessible. It will also foster collaboration between libraries and communities: I am thinking in particular of departmental libraries that can play an important role, particularly in rural areas, in supporting and assisting small structures that need them. The aim is to promote the presence of the book throughout the country. In essence, we are working towards equality of opportunity by enabling every citizen, regardless of age, social condition, origin or neighbourhood, to have access to libraries, places of culture and knowledge which must also be places of sharing. I also take advantage of this debate to defend before you an idea that I have been carrying for several years: libraries must be opened up to new actors, such as associations supporting the learning of the French language. This language is our homeland, an extraordinary heritage that must be transmitted. I am thinking in particular of refugees, migrants; To bring them to our libraries is to show them our culture, it is to make them known. Thanks to this text which will also allow the extension of their opening hours, we can think differently of our libraries. These are places of life and welcome that allow the French Republic to make live, more and more strongly and with the greatest number, its principles and the values that it recalls in its motto: freedom, equality, fraternity. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am very pleased that we can find each other unanimously and that we are once again committed to further progress through culture, libraries and books.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u26	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u27	"The essential function of a library is to promote the discovery of books that were not suspected of existence and that are of vital importance to the reader. With this very correct phrase, Umberto Eco once summarized the importance of libraries in our society and the essential role that reading plays in the development of everyone. I am pleased that we can devote time to this essential theme of the book and, more broadly, to access to culture. The more than 16,000 municipal libraries in our territory are an incredible chance of emancipation for our fellow citizens who, on average, live only twenty minutes from one of them. I would like to take this opportunity to greet the professionals – but also the many volunteers, especially in small municipalities – who are animating and making our libraries work. These have become, over time, places of work, exchange and encounter. I want proof that 50% of users don't borrow books. Thus, the library as a place of life can make it possible to find a link in an open environment, surrounded by a thousand riches. I therefore welcome the initiative of our colleague Senator Sylvie Robert, who, through this bill, allows us to remedy a breach. Indeed, our libraries suffered from the absence of such a comprehensive legislative framework as that accorded to archives or museums in the Heritage Code. The text has been usefully amended in committee and I would like to congratulate you, Madam rapporteur, on your work. More than 16,000 libraries are many works that circulate and many bearings in the collections. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to integrate a more extensive circular economy approach that will give a second life to the books. Although it is imperative to discourage speculation on public goods, we cannot resolve to put thousands of pounds in the trash instead of giving them the chance to make another person happy. I was very pleased that the rapporteur tabled and adopted a scheme equivalent to the one I had proposed by way of an amendment, which made it possible to integrate into the system the solidary and sustainable enterprises responsible for the recycling, rehabilitation and resale of books intended for the dumpster. Finally, I would like to return to the issue of access to libraries for persons with disabilities. First of all, as institutions receiving from the public, libraries must naturally allow for the accessibility of buildings, and they must be encouraged and accompanied in this process. But equally important is the issue of accessibility of collections. The principle of equal access to the public service, referred to in Article 1, makes it necessary to adapt the collections – by making audiobooks, transcripts or any other form of document available – to the various situations encountered. Of course, we are thinking of people with sensory or cognitive disorders that prevent reading, such as blind or visually impaired audiences, but also – I want to talk about it – those – especially children – who experience specific cognitive disorders or learning disorders, such as what is commonly referred to as "dys": dysarthography, dyslexia, attention or memory disorders. Culture is our greatest wealth, it is a universal good that must be made available to all. I would therefore like to thank you, the rapporteur, for proposing that my amendment be reworked together on the subject which, in committee, has caught your attention. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] The work we are doing here must be approached in a constructive and intelligent manner. I am pleased, Madam rapporteur, that we have been able to work together in this spirit. By inserting such a measure in the text, we would send an important signal in favour of equality. The IDU and independent group is very much in favour of this bill, which I hope will be the subject of a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u28	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u29	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u30	The rapporteur's amendment No 48 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u31	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u32	The goal is to ensure that digital does not replace physical documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u33	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u34	Rest assured, Madame Ménard: Article 5 clearly mentions the book, which is not intended to be replaced by digital. Since your amendment is satisfied, I propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u35	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u36	The proposed wording is even ambiguous: it suggests that any acquisition of a book in physical form should be supplemented by its purchase in digital form. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u37	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 31, 35 and 50, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 54. Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u38	This amendment by the La République en marche group, to which I particularly associate my colleagues Stéphanie Atger and Pierre-Alain Raphan, aims to explicitly incorporate the issues of disability, illiteracy and illiteracy into the bill. First, it states that the services, activities and tools offered by libraries must be accessible to all, including persons with disabilities. This is a major issue in promoting the accessibility of collections. The fight against illiteracy must also be included in the missions of libraries. Chair of the Study Group on Illiteracy and Illiteracy, I would like to recall that libraries have always contributed to the reduction of illiteracy by conveying the taste of reading, creating "Easy to read" spaces, or organizing reading and writing workshops, including for those who have misunderstood. It is therefore a question of recognizing their role and I hope that this will encourage partnerships with other actors involved in cultural and social mediation. Finally, with this amendment, we would also like to mention for the first time illectronism in the law. Indeed, 13 million of our citizens do not yet have mastery of digital tools or are uncomfortable with them. I am convinced that librarians can have a role to play in this area. They too have been confronted with the problem of exclusion since they developed digital content, and many have seized this issue. These local actions to support the public gain to be better known and shared to involve all libraries more in a digital inclusion approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u39	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u40	I would like to welcome the will that has been expressed in a collegial manner in order to include in the text the issues related to disability and the fight against illiteracy and illiteracy. I would like to thank the colleagues who are involved in these matters, who have defended them in committee and who have agreed to withdraw the amendments they have tabled in order to arrive at a common writing with a view to carrying out together these struggles which are dear to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u41	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u42	Similar to the other two, it aims, like the one I had defended in committee, to integrate the notion of accessibility for all. I will take this opportunity once again to talk about people with disabilities, both in terms of physical accessibility and accessibility of written content. I say it again: I am thinking of people with visual and visual impairments, but also of people with cognitive or learning disabilities such as "dys". They have the right, like everyone else, to take advantage of the cultural offer offered by libraries. Madam Minister, I would also like to ask you if accessibility will be accompanied, and if libraries will be able to benefit from a fund dedicated to the adaptation of literary and documentary content, because the tools exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u43	The Minister has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u44	The Government can only endorse the objectives set by these identical amendments. Of course, it is important that the article dealing with the missions of libraries clarify their contribution to the access of persons with disabilities to collections and services, as well as to the fight against illiteracy and illiteracy. Nevertheless, the provision by libraries of adapted versions of protected documents should continue to be covered by articles L. 122-5 et seq. of the Intellectual Property Code, which determine the exceptions to copyright related to accessibility to persons with disabilities. This has just been mentioned by Mrs Descamps: not all libraries necessarily meet the criteria required by these provisions to carry out such an adaptation activity. It seems fairer to use the verb "facilitate" rather than "ensure", in order to encourage libraries to offer suitable documents. Subject to this amendment, I shall deliver an opinion in favour of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u45	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u46	I am very much in favour of the sub-amendment as it allows for compliance with copyright rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u47	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u48	For our part, we prefer to stick to the original wording of the amendments, including your sub-amendment, the minister, completely alters the meaning, because "ensuring" implies a certain obligation, not "facilitating". This last word refers to the goodwill of libraries – and even to their "good power", especially from a financial point of view. Will the local and regional authorities on which they depend be able to "facilitate" this access? But if the law provides that they must "ensure it", the State will have an obligation to accompany them in this direction. We will vote in favour of the identical amendments, but against the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u49	I call Mr Bouyx to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u50	Cultural action represents an important part of the activities of libraries and is presented in various forms – organization of screenings, oral events, exhibitions or participatory animations. This cultural action has an educational and prescriptive function: it allows to discover new authors and new works. It also has a social function – meetings, debates, multicultural exchanges – and a leisure function. Finally, it brings an essential critical dimension with the perspective and questioning of knowledge. For all these reasons, the purpose of this amendment is to include cultural action among the missions of libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u52	Cultural actions are provided for in paragraph 4, which provides that libraries "design and implement services and activities associated with their missions or collections. The concept of cultural rights is also mentioned. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory, and I propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u54	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u55	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u56	Like everyone in this House, we are in favour of this bill, which reaffirms the importance of libraries, an essential link in the culture of proximity in our country. However, we believe that it is possible to improve this text. We would like to make it clear that libraries use the tools of popular education. Popular education is recognized by the institutions, to the extent that there is a Directorate for Youth, People's Education and Associative Life within the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. It is also mentioned in the Charter of the Fundamental Right of Citizens to Access Information and Knowledge by Libraries. To use the tools of popular education is to consider that "no one educates others, no one educates himself alone, men educate themselves together through the world", as Paulo Freire wrote. It is to adopt an accompaniment posture from where people are, and not from where people would like them to arrive, inviting questioning and building on people's experiences. It therefore seems essential to us to devote the fact that libraries are essential tools of popular education and to include these terms in the article, not just general references.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u58	I have noted that you have repositioned this amendment, tabled in committee by Mr Larive, but I will give you the same answer. Article 1, paragraph 2, provides that libraries shall be responsible for ensuring "the access of all to culture, information, education, research, knowledge and leisure". This wording is in line with our desire to use, in the field of education, culture and heritage, terminology that is broad enough to cover the whole field, including, therefore, the idea of popular education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u59	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u60	It aims to clarify the concept of "cultural rights", which are set out in a reference text, the Convention of 20 October 2005 on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. In so doing, it tends to recall the joint responsibility of the State and the territorial authorities in this matter, pursuant to Article 103 of the Law of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic, which expressly refers to this Convention. By the way, it is worth recalling that linguistic diversity is one of the constituent elements of cultural rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u61	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u62	An amendment adopted in committee at the initiative of Aurore Bergé made it possible to mention cultural rights, defined as the right of everyone to participate in cultural life. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. Request for withdrawal, failing which adverse notice is given.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u63	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u64	This request is met, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u65	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u66	You tell me that my request is satisfied because the precision was brought by Aurore Bergé. I'll believe you, but I'll check it out, because I'm a little surprised...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u67	[[Smile]] Mr Molac, we have enough experience to know that everything that is said in this chamber is true... On the same amendments Nos 8 and 43, and on Amendment No 42, I have a request for a public vote before the Libertés et Territoires Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u68	Words make sense, participating in cultural action does not mean guaranteeing diversity. Mr Molac's amendment has its full meaning and deserves to be included in this text, I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u69	I have before me four amendments, Nos 13, 7, 8 and 43, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 8 and 43 are identical. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u70	I propose to include the dissemination and promotion of linguistic heritage among the missions of libraries. Since the 2008 revision, the Constitution states: "Regional languages belong to the heritage of France. However, they have really existed in our legislation only since the passage of the law, known as Molac, on the heritage protection and promotion of regional languages. Article 1(2) states that the linguistic heritage shall consist of "the French language and the regional languages". This development should be taken into account and our work to promote regional languages should continue. The amendment therefore seeks to supplement the text proposed for Article L. 310-1 A of the Heritage Code, which sets out the fundamental principles of libraries and details some of their tasks, making explicit reference to the concept of linguistic heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u71	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor to support Amendments Nos 7 and 8, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u72	This bill concerns France's first cultural equipment, libraries, and enshrines the fundamental right to access it. In this regard, I would like to welcome Senator Sylvie Robert's initiative. I suggest that you link this proposal to the legislation that we passed on April 8 at the initiative of our colleague Paul Molac. Article 1 of this Act enshrines the fact that the French language and the regional languages are part of our linguistic heritage, and are therefore included in the Heritage Code. The Act also recalls that the State and local and regional authorities contribute to the teaching, dissemination and promotion of these languages. The number of speakers exposes regional languages to the danger of extinction. It is therefore quite natural that I propose to write that libraries have an essential role in their dissemination and promotion in the territories concerned, by making available to readers, speakers and learners works and sound resources related to regional languages. I know your commitment to regional languages, Minister, you demonstrated this this summer when we had the pleasure of meeting together with the president of the Diwan teaching association at a festival. I am presenting these amendments following extensive discussions with the former president of this association. I thank you in advance for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u73	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u74	The Act of 21 May 2021 on the protection and promotion of the heritage of regional languages made it possible to recognize in Article L. 1 of the Heritage Code the existence of a "linguistic heritage, consisting of the French language and the regional languages", whose "State and local authorities contribute to the teaching, dissemination and promotion". It is therefore necessary to incorporate into the provisions of this bill the tasks assigned to the public authorities in this field by means of libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u75	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u76	These amendments led me to go back into the law of 21 May 2021 in order to have its content in mind. In the proposal we are considering, the concept of heritage, in a broad sense, is well reflected in Article 1. It is intended that the libraries of the local authorities will participate in its dissemination – including, therefore, that of the linguistic heritage, which includes the French language and the regional languages. In my view, therefore, it is really not useful to repeat all this. Nevertheless, I express a wisdom opinion on Amendment No 13 by Mr Balanant, which provides that libraries "participate in the dissemination and promotion of linguistic heritage".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u78	Yannick Kerlogot recalled my commitment to the defence of the regional languages and the languages of France. I also intend to visit the General States of Multilingualism to be held in La Réunion at the end of this month. I welcome the commitment of Members, many on these benches, to promote regional languages: it has enabled recent legislative developments, as well as the presentation to the Prime Minister last July of the report by Members Christophe Euzet and Yannick Kerlogot. The promotion of regional languages is one of the missions of libraries. Some, like archives, may retain important testimonies of their region's linguistic and cultural heritage: regional language texts, oral archive collections, and old photographs. Libraries offer their users recent documents and cultural animations in different languages. The proposed addition is therefore not legally useful, since the promotion of regional languages is already included in the text of Mrs Robert's bill. However, I understand the desire to mention it and, in a spirit of openness, I rely on the wisdom of the House with regard to Amendment No 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u79	[[Smile]] There are inevitably multiple requests to speak on this subject from elected deputies in the territories concerned. I hope a Bearnais will speak out! Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u80	You know my commitment to the French language and regional languages. But after hearing the minister and the authors of the amendments, I wonder, because the proposed arrangements do not exactly correspond to the summary statements. The authors of the amendments have spoken about the territories concerned, the minister has just spoken about the linguistic heritage of their regions. However, the proposed wording does not provide that clarification. If the Assembly, in its wisdom, were to adopt these amendments, it would be interesting to make it clear that the missions of libraries must be well adapted to the territories, because assuming such a mission in a language of another region, with which there are no links, may seem cumbersome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u81	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u82	No matter what amendment is adopted, Mr Balanant's amendment suits me very well. If I really want this provision to be included in the law, it is primarily because there is an urgent need. UNESCO classifies all the regional languages of France in great danger of extinction. It is therefore urgent to focus on these languages, some of which will unfortunately disappear. Then I am too used to hearing: "Under Article 2 of the Constitution, French is the language of the Republic; So we can't buy a book in Breton from our own funds. This is a totally misleading interpretation of Article 2, but it is very often found. The only solution is to include in the law the authorization to purchase books in the regional language. I reassure Mr Bazin: this mission will respond to a request, nothing will be imposed. From this point of view, Mr Balanant's amendment is very well drafted, since he proposes to write that libraries "participate" in the dissemination and promotion of linguistic heritage. So we don't force anyone. But if one day, in a large Parisian library, one can buy a book in Occitan or Breton, French cultural diversity will only be better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u83	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u84	I am very flattered that the new President of the Breton Language Office, Mr Paul Molac, finds my amendment well drafted! I agree with him. Indeed, the amendment refers to Paul Molac's text without going into detail. To talk about linguistic heritage and to talk about participation in its dissemination and promotion delimits a broad field, hence the opinion of wisdom. However, this addition is far from annoyance, for I believe that leaving aside the notion of linguistic heritage, not speaking languages in speaking libraries, is a lack. The amendment is therefore timely and meets the demands that come to us on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u85	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u86	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the minister for their wisdom on Mr Balanant's amendment, which stresses that libraries "participate" in the dissemination and promotion of linguistic heritage. This is a source of reassurance to colleagues who have pointed out that not all regions are concerned. I therefore withdraw my two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u87	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u88	That is a good amendment. Regional languages are part of our intangible heritage and ensuring its dissemination is a duty. Words and phrases are printed on a medium, the book, whatever the language. Books in regional languages do not only concern the regions where these languages are spoken: there are surely more people from the Ariège department in the Paris region than in Ariège itself. Limiting the promotion of a language to its region is not such as to make it live! The basis of culture is exchange. If our culture is great, it is because we are at the crossroads of the continent and many languages have come to express themselves. It is this diversity that will make libraries a place of awakening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u89	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u90	Without going back to my wisdom opinion, I would like to recall that, as I indicated in the presentation of the text, the heritage can be scientific, historical, graphic, photographic... The overall concept of heritage encompasses all these aspects. Article 7 provides for collections to be set up in association with local and regional authorities. I was referring to the media library of the Courneuve which I visited; I also knew Guingamp's. The approach within these two structures is not identical. But while it seems important to you to underline the participation of libraries in the promotion of linguistic heritage – a participation that does exist – I would like to give a wise opinion on your amendment. These elements should ease Mr Bazin's concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u91	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u92	It is probably not unnecessary, at this stage of our discussion, to stress that, alongside the large regional blocs, there are a multitude of regional languages – I am thinking in particular of the overseas languages. Even within large regional blocks, there are differences. Thus – I am a blunder from the centre of Brittany – the Breton spoken in the Argotat is not at all the same as the one spoken in the Armor. The same applies to the Corsican language: it would be more appropriate to speak Corsican languages, which are at least seven. It is therefore necessary to give very great freedom of appreciation to the libraries which defend plurilingualism and our regional languages. That is why I support Amendment No 13 by Mr Balanant, while maintaining my wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u93	Positive wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u94	Benevolent wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u95	Wisdom determined!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u96	[[Smile]] Yes, we understand that you are full of hope for our assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u97	Amendments Nos 42 by Mr Paul Molac and 6 by Mr Yannick Kerlogot, which may be subject to a joint debate, are defended. I would remind you that Amendment No 42 must be voted on in public. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u98	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u100	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u101	I put to the vote Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u102	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 51 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 17 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u103	Mr Paul Molac's amendment No 44 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u104	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u106	I suggest withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u107	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u108	We propose to include in the law that the association of users is essential for libraries to carry out their missions. Public participation in the activities of libraries is essential to integrate libraries into neighbourhoods, in particular the working-class neighbourhoods where they sometimes represent the last public service still open with primary school. Only 16% of the French population is registered in a library. In order to guarantee everyone's access to culture, information, education – especially popular education – research and knowledge, it is essential to encourage the involvement of users while developing actions outside the walls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u110	I will give you the same answer as in committee, even if the amendment is placed in another place this time. Users are, in fact, involved and consulted by librarians, whose profession requires special skills and qualifications, as referred to in Article 8. In order to ensure that the choices of librarians, in particular with regard to acquisition, are part of local democracy, article 7 provides that libraries present their documentary policy before the municipal council or the deliberative body of intercommunality. Finally, in all the libraries I have visited, I can assure you that librarians are committed to taking into account the expectations of users to build up their funds and consult them systematically. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u112	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u113	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u114	Madam rapporteur, the boards of directors of libraries that present their proposals to intercommunal and municipal councils refer to participatory democracy. I am talking to you about a direct democracy that would involve users in the choice of collections. The amendment proposes to write: "Libraries of local and regional authorities or their groups shall encourage the participation of users in the performance of their tasks. It is not a question of establishing an obligation, but of broadening participation to take account of the taste and meaning of the users' reading. Of course, librarians and the board of directors will have every opportunity to expand their collection beyond the choices of users, but it is a way of involving the public and bringing it to libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u115	I call Mr Bouyx to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u116	This article lays down the principle of freedom of access to municipal and inter-municipal libraries. This provision seems obscure. Indeed, it suggests that access to libraries will not be controlled, or that there is no need for younger people to be accompanied. However, some internal regulations, specific to each library, provide for, for example, the support of children by an adult. This is why libraries should continue to be given the freedom to decide, depending on the spaces at their disposal, on their rules of operation. This amendment specifies that libraries may provide in their rules of procedure special rules for access to their spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u118	In this article, it is a matter of reaffirming the free access of all to libraries. However, your amendment suggests that communities could limit or condition such access by means of internal rules of procedure. This seems dangerous to me as initiatives to exclude certain categories of population may arise. Your approach is inclusive, but the risk is exclusion. I am therefore not in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u120	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Of course, the freedom of access to libraries is a consensus, but there is nothing to prevent specific arrangements and access arrangements from being made in the rules of procedure. I think the proposal is super-fetish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u121	Mr Bouyx, would you like to withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u122	[[Smile]] Because of its subversive and explosive character, I remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u123	I saw that Mr. First Quaestor tried to convince you, so he did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u124	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 20, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u125	By this amendment, we want libraries in local and regional authorities to be excluded from the obligation to present a health pass, a request which was recently made on 1 October by several libraries on strike. This mobilization finds its source in the very nature of the work of libraries, public reading, which is based on unconditional access. The control of the pass at the entrance runs counter to the sense of public service at the heart of this conception, in particular the reception of the most vulnerable and remote publics, who are also the most affected by the vaccine fracture. The obligation to pass will therefore increase the relegation of these audiences, even though reading was declared a major national cause for the year 2022. Mediatheques are a local cultural network, a place to fight cultural and social divides. The health pass obligation, which is in fact a disguised vaccination obligation, had already been identified as a problem by the Defender of Rights in July: it warned that the right to culture and leisure is a right proclaimed by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and that the imposition of a health pass restricts the exercise of the essential rights of young people. Civil servants in the public service of culture and libraries were mobilized during the crisis, adapted, ensured that these places remained accessible with maximum health protection. They are essential places, just like culture itself, all the more so in difficult times. It is incomprehensible that other libraries, the BNF, the BPI, university libraries (BU), as well as businesses, libraries remain accessible without a sanitary pass, while these public service libraries have this barrier to entry. That's why...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u126	[[Ms. Danièle Obono exclaimed]] Mrs Obono, thank you, you have had ample time to speak. I've let you talk for two minutes, forty minutes, you have to know how to conclude. The rule applies to you as to others. You do it every time. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u127	Mrs Obono, you mentioned the BUs, the BNF and the BPI, which respond to a desire for consistency of the system chosen for teaching and research activities, to which the health pass does not apply. BUs are an integral part of the system applicable to higher education, hence the pass exemption. The public of BNF and BPI are mostly made up of students, teachers and researchers; Similarly, there is a derogation in territorial libraries for students, teachers and researchers. The health pass has proved its worth, and the evolution of the health crisis offers hope for further relief for all cultural institutions. As it stands, I cannot give you a favourable answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u129	The pass is obviously part of a mechanism that responds to the health crisis that we are going through and that is far from over. Although the figures are encouraging, it is known that the fall recovery is not conducive to slowing down the pandemic. We must therefore be very careful about all the enlargements that could be proposed, and which could be the subject of counterclaims from different actors in cultural and social life. I am convinced that, if we remain in the current configuration, we will be able to return very soon to normal functioning, but it is still too early to, at the turn of a text whose purpose is not, change the modalities of a health policy. It is, if I may say so, a health cavalier: it is really not the object of this text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u130	We know your health skills!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u131	I've got a few!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u132	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u133	Tell me, Mr. President, when I get to the end of my two minutes and I'll stop. Madam rapporteur, you do not explain, however, why other places of culture, such as bookstores, or shops are not subject to the pass. Our amendment is not a horseman since it has been deemed admissible. Libraries are celebrated here in terms of social and cultural ties, at a time when these links are all the more important. This is defended by the agents, who remain mobilized on these issues and are not in an anti-vaccine or anti-health policy per se, but indicate that this obligation calls into question their work. The pass also has an impact on the organization of services, it has an hourly cost without the expected profit being equal to its cost in terms of decreasing attendance. One exception would therefore make sense – there are already others. It would help to combat an element present in the health crisis, namely the dissemination of false information. Libraries are places of culture and knowledge that must enable popular education on health issues, for the farthest audiences. From both a health and a cultural point of view, it is a mistake to keep these sanitary passes in these places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u134	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u135	Madam Minister, you know that I support the health pass, whose usefulness I fully understand. I would just like to alert you to the demand for a health pass for minors, children and adolescents between the ages of 12 and 17. Last week I visited the beautiful media library-ludotheque in Sucy-en-Brie in my constituency and I was told about the concerns of the media libraries, Ludotheques and libraries about asking these young people to present the pass. Even if I understand the health logic, I speak for myself because we can consider that young people should not be dependent on the decisions of their parents, and that they should be denied access to a media library or a ludo library because they would not be vaccinated because of their refusal. Can you, on this particular point, repeat recommendations, clarify why this is still necessary? I repeat, there is concern for these children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u136	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u137	This is a very broad debate on health policy in a proven pandemic state. The latest variations at work are attacking younger populations and the health authorities have concluded that the vaccination of the younger ones, from the age of twelve, is appropriate. I do not think it is the purpose, in a discussion on the opening of libraries, to repeat the very numerous and very extensive debates that took place in this House on the health pass, in addition to the fact that the Minister of Culture wishes to remain in her corridor. You will be able to ask for Mr.Véran and his services, who are entitled to explain this policy in detail, even if I am not completely without expertise in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u138	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. The health policy followed has set standards and that is why I am against this amendment, but I hear your argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u140	On Amendment No 45, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u141	We propose that the loan of documents be free of charge in municipal and inter-municipal libraries. It is simply a matter of implementing the principles set out in article 1 of this bill, which states that libraries have the task of "guaranteeing everyone's access to culture, information, education, research, knowledge and leisure". A few paragraphs later, the principle of "equal access to public service" is enshrined, and that is very good. However, Article 3 provides only for free consultation of collections, but not for the borrowing of documents. It is impossible to guarantee everyone's access to books by limiting their on-site consultation to the opening hours of libraries. We also recall that only 12.5% of the population with access to a library made at least one loan in the year, according to the national synthesis of activity data 2018 of municipal and inter-municipal libraries published by the Ministry of Culture. Finally, we propose with this amendment to apply the UNESCO Manifesto on the 1994 Public Library, which states that "the services of the public library are in principle free of charge": all services. We therefore propose, I repeat, that the principle of free access also applies to the lending of library collections, in accordance with the principles set out in section 1 of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u143	We have already talked about this, my colleague, and my answer will be the same as I gave you two weeks ago in committee. Although, as you pointed out, section 3 guarantees free access to territorial libraries, it is up to the communities to choose whether or not to charge for the loan of documents. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u145	Unfavorable opinion. Many territorial community libraries already practice the loan free of charge. It is at their disposal, it is the free administration of the communities. This amendment would result in the perverse effect that the local authorities that so far provide this service free of charge would charge it and the State would be forced to compensate for it, which is a bit strange. Communities must be allowed to administer freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u146	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u147	Minister, I do not understand the end of your explanation. You say someone has to make up for something: how do you want to make up for a free fee, pay back zero euro?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u148	The taste of free is inimitable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u149	What you are saying is not in the spirit of your own bill, Madam rapporteur. If libraries are already free on loan, the idea is to extend it by law, quite simply. I don't see what economic calculations are involved in this. Since you're telling me that libraries already practice this free, well, let's extend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u150	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u151	The aim of this amendment is to extend the list which will govern the collections of the libraries of local and regional authorities and their groups. By including the word "supports" in the article, the list will indeed have to draw up the different types of support that will feed the library collections. The aim of the amendment is to ensure a place for particular books, audio books and printed books with a writing policy adapted to certain persons with disabilities in library collections. These books must be made accessible to all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u153	Audio media and other types of editions adapted to physical or digital media are included in "books, documents and objects" and in "audio and audiovisual documents", which are deliberately very broad terms. With regard to accessibility, it is also mentioned in article 5: "The collections are made accessible on-site or remotely", which means that they must be made accessible to persons with disabilities or prevented. The amendment is satisfactory, so I would ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u155	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u156	Mr Paul Molac has the floor to support Amendment No 45, which I would remind you will be the subject of a public vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u157	[[Smile]] Mr President, I requested this at the very beginning of the sitting, but I will certainly not do so at this stage of the debate. Since a public vote is planned, however, I maintain my amendment. Let's vote and let's not talk about it anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u158	What an enthusiasm, Mr Molac! What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u159	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u160	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u161	In fact, the amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u162	Mr Molac, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u163	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u164	[[Smile]] We shall therefore vote. I have no judgment on the Britons, but let me point out that the Minister has declared the amendment to be satisfactory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u165	[[Applause on various benches]] Either, I'll take it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u166	[[Smile]] Molac is becoming reasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u167	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 39 and 38, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u168	Amendment No 39, which I tabled in committee two weeks ago and which I would like to resubmit to this House, aims to ensure parity in the works available in libraries. Today, there is no obligation to offer as many works as works by authors. While specific efforts can be observed at the local level and deserve to be welcomed – I am thinking in particular of some libraries in my constituency – women remain a minority in library collections. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in no way a lubricating matter. I just came out of the meeting of the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women at which Gaël Le Bohec and Karine Lebon presented their excellent information report on gender stereotypes. In order to combat the latter, our colleagues are calling for better representation of women in library collections. Amendment No 39 is a back-up amendment, based on incitement rather than coercion. The aim is to encourage libraries and local communities to commit to gender equality and increased visibility for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u169	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u170	It is the same as I mentioned in committee, dear colleague. As you know, I defend parity as you and even beyond, but I do not think that forcing their representation in the collections of past centuries is the right way forward. Article 5 states that the collections of the libraries of the local authorities or their groups must be " pluralistic and diverse", a less limited and broader formulation, which even allows women to be represented in excess of strict parity. The writing of the article goes further than you propose. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u172	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u173	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u174	The subject matter is important and is not limited to the number of women or men represented in library collections. As we now know, the story told by men and the literary works written by men are biased and guide our way of thinking about history, of making politics and our relationship to culture. I therefore stress the usefulness of these amendments, especially since the second, which is a fallback amendment, does not impose any obligation on libraries and local authorities, but merely encourages them to promote parity in their collection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u175	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u176	As I said during the committee's work, I agree with Albane Gaillot's position and I particularly support his withdrawal amendment. While it is difficult to be coercive on this issue, it is important to encourage libraries to reflect on how to better represent women in their collections at the time of their creation. I shall therefore vote, as a matter of principle, in favour of Amendment No 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u177	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u178	The rapporteur's argument that Article 5 on the diversity of collections would offer a more advantageous wording for the representation of women than that of Albane Gaillot's amendments goes, in my view, against the battle for equality between men and women. When we talk about diversity, we don't talk about gender equality and we usually forget about women. All the struggles for equality bear witness to this: a clear distinction is indispensable between what is a matter of diversity and what is a matter of parity or equality between men and women. I add, in the continuation of Albane Gaillot and Michèle Victory, that the narratives, books and stereotypes they convey haunt and work our imaginations, hence the need to reflect on the composition of the collections. It is unacceptable that this approach should be refused on the grounds that the ancient collections consist mainly of works by male authors. For a long time, historians have claimed that only men have marked history. Fortunately, in recent decades, historians and historians have honoured the women who have marked feminist history and struggles. The arguments put forward by the rapporteur run counter to the battle we are fighting for equality between men and women and which we must also lead in libraries with regard to access to works written by women. See how women are present in contemporary literature! Their books are almost more numerous than those of men on the shelves of bookstores. This is proof that diversity and parity are no longer vain words today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u179	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u180	I am concerned about your way of rejecting the opposition's amendments for the sole reason that they do not use sufficiently general words. Earlier, you said that it was not necessary to specify "popular education"; Now you claim that plurality and diversity include parity. Why, under these conditions, propose specific texts on libraries and books? It was enough to put forward a proposal for a law on culture! Your argument, you see, is somewhat problematic... Why, moreover, reject an amendment of withdrawal which is not coercive and which simply encourages people to think about parity? It has long been a major national cause. I will support Mrs Gaillot's amendments for my part!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u181	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u182	This is an amendment of consistency with Amendment No 13 which we adopted earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u183	Nice try, Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u185	The clarification provided by the amendment is not part of an article on pluralism of opinion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u187	[[Smile]] The amendment is satisfied with Amendment No 13, which has just been adopted triumphantly! So I'm asking for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u188	Did you hear the minister, Mr. Balanant?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u189	Yeah, so I'm taking it off. But I thought it was consistent with the other one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u190	[[Smile]] The minister did not say the other way around. You remove it: that's what's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u191	Amendment No 46 by Mr Paul Molac is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u192	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u193	In the same spirit as the previous one, the aim is to clarify that access to library collections for all audiences is made possible by the nature of the materials made available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u195	This clarification restricts the definition of accessibility, which is made possible not only by the nature of the media, but also by computer catalogues or even by mediation. I invite you to withdraw the amendment, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u197	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u198	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u199	This appeal amendment concerns the visibility of libraries in public space. They have long been asking for a clean signal that would allow them to be identified immediately. Such a measure is certainly not within the scope of the law, but I call on you, Madam Minister, to act so that the legitimate request of libraries can finally be met. They must exist not only in political discourse and public policies, but also in public space, thanks to unified signage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u201	The creation of a common signage is one of the recommendations you made, dear colleague, as part of the flash mission on the follow-up to Erik Orsenna's and Noël Corbin's report on libraries. It is indeed necessary, but it is more a matter of regulation than of law. Subject to the Minister's response, I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u203	Dear Aurore Bergé, I fully subscribe to the idea of a common library signage and strongly encourage the creation of a sign in the image of the one used by pharmacies. However, this initiative must come from field libraries and elected representatives, not from the Ministry of Culture. However, I am prepared to raise this issue at the next National Council of Territories for Culture and to encourage local actors to address this issue. Once they have decided on a signpost, we will provide them with the necessary help to create the library sign. I repeat that I am very much in favour, in principle, of a common library signage, but I hope that this initiative will come from the field. That is why I invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u204	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u205	In line with Amendment No 39, this amendment, which is also coercive, aims to impose parity of works in library collections. There is no doubt that he will receive an unfavorable opinion from the Commission and the Government. However, allow me a suggestion, Madam Minister: why not debate this issue at the National Council of Territories for Culture? It would be interesting if women's parity and fair visibility in the collections were the subject of wide-ranging debate in the cultural world throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u207	I am against this amendment, which nevertheless inspires me to reflect on the following. You are talking about parity, a term that I prefer – although I am aware that it is this concept that has advanced the status of women – the notion of diversity, broader and less binary. However, the majority of librarians are women. So I hope they know how to fight for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u208	I call Mr Henriet to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u209	As was recalled during the examination of Article 1 of this text, libraries are anchored in our territories and constitute a fundamental link to the promotion of heritage, in particular in relation to departmental archives. This is true not only for regional languages but also, more generally, for local history, the knowledge and know-how specific to each of the regions of France. Far from enclosing libraries in a mission, this amendment aims to support individual cultural mediation initiatives while translating into law a practice already widespread on the ground in order to enhance local heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u211	Libraries already contribute to valuing local heritage, but also many other elements of our culture. I would find it a pity to confine them to this when they are a window on the world for the people who frequent them and have a universalist vocation. It is therefore a request for withdrawal or an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u212	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u213	The aim of this amendment is to clarify the scope of the partners who are those of the libraries, which obviously includes the social partners, the prison centres but also – and I insist on it – the early childhood institutions. I refer here to the work led by Sophie Marinopoulos on cultural health issues, which concluded that it was necessary to ensure that the book entered children's lives as soon as possible. However, social reproduction means that if there are families in which the book enters in an obvious and natural way, there are others for which it is much less obvious. It is by strengthening partnerships between libraries and early childhood centres that we can strengthen the presence of the book within families and ensure that it is the first cultural object to enter, without being a lever of social reproduction but, on the contrary, a tool of emancipation for all children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u215	I find it very interesting to reposition to Rule 7 the amendment we adopted in committee to Rule 1 on cooperation with social, cultural, educational and penal bodies. For my part, I fully support what you have just said about the issues of the book in early childhood, since we know that in terms of reading and access to culture, everything is played from an early age. However, since Article 1e r does not explicitly refer to early childhood care centres, since it has been understood that they are included in social, educational and cultural bodies, I will give a wisdom opinion on editorial and homogeneity issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u217	This amendment is excellent, but I will stick to the wise opinion of the rapporteur for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u218	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u219	The public service of culture and libraries are a wealth, a common good, a tool for emancipation. The diversity of their missions forms a foundation whose originality and strength are based essentially on the agents and employees of this public service. But, as the librarians have reminded us, who have mobilized a great deal in recent years, the profession is currently in great difficulty. There are too many wage disparities among staff, there are no decent career advancements for incumbents, when some employees are in a very precarious situation. Note that category A represents 34% of jobs, compared to 26% for category B, and 40% for category C. In addition, the rapporteur pointed out that it was a highly female population: almost seven out of ten agents were women, many of whom were in the most precarious categories and among contract workers. I therefore wanted to take advantage of Article 8 to recall the demands of these professionals: the organisation of an annual competition to ensure the recruitment necessary for the opening and appointment of posts; the end of the post freeze; integration of non-owners; a salary increase based on an increase in the index point to catch up with the 15% loss of purchasing power in 15 years; more linear career paths, as well as the repeal of the Protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration (PPCR) or compensatory schemes for the benefit of more equitable scales. That, I hope, will be an echo to the minister, because it is through the involvement of these staff that we can celebrate this library service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u220	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u221	I feel that too much legislation and regulation can lead to results that are exactly contrary to what we would like. That library staff should be trained as best as possible and paid for on the basis of this training is, of course, a good thing. The problem is that, in very small communes, libraries are often run by volunteers or even municipal elected officials. Making training compulsory could thus discourage municipalities from maintaining their cultural offer. That is why we believe that this article should concern only the most important municipalities, those that have the financial means to pay their staff better and to rely on wider recruitment to support their cultural offerings and libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u222	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u223	This article has only a symbolic scope, since no list of specific qualifications is given. However, allow me to put myself in the place of the mayor of a small rural commune, who wishes to open a library with the few human and financial resources at his disposal and who will have to assess whether the staff he has the qualifications required to carry out the tasks mentioned in section 1: won't the reading of the law make him give up his project? Similarly, can libraries that only run through volunteers continue to operate? My colleague Blandine Brocard has tabled two amendments on this subject that call for clarification, and we want the minister to respond to these concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u224	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u225	In response to certain concerns, I would like to point out that the words "professional qualifications" are sufficiently, and voluntarily, broad, since the purpose of this article is precisely to encourage libraries to benefit all those who work there, not only from initial university training, but also from continuing training. Such training is most often provided by library associations and will, of course, benefit volunteers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u226	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u227	This amendment is consistent with the Minister's intervention, since we are proposing to extend the qualification requirement to non-public service officers. Among the claims is the resorption, as quickly as possible, of the precariousness of these contractual personnel and their tenure. However, we believe that it is necessary that these contractors whose purpose is to integrate the public service offer guarantees of qualification. The extension of the opening hours of libraries without sufficient resources has led to an increased use of contract workers, sometimes low-skilled, and 40% of jobs created through State funding through the Libraries Plan are not full jobs. While we welcome the fact that recruitment has mainly focused on long-term jobs, while the Orsenna report recommended the hiring of young people in civic service and precarious contracts, we hope that these staff will be given a higher level of qualification, which, in order to ensure a very valuable job, must be able to evolve professionally. The aim of this amendment is therefore to consolidate and sustain their status.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u229	The word "agent" encompasses all staff, and there is no distinction to make. All officers, whether or not they are incumbents, will be able to access the training offered within the framework of the territorial community. Thus, departmental libraries will have the task of training agents, all agents. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u230	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u231	Same opinion. The policy of extending opening hours and extending the weekly range has benefited from appropriations under the first library plan covering the financial years 2018 to 2020. This budgetary effort continued thanks to the appropriations I have obtained under the recovery plan. So you cannot say that the policy of extending the timetables and widening the weekly range has been without financial support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u232	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u233	Of course, this support is not enough, as the agents repeat. And I stress once again the need to titularize the contractors recruited on this occasion, but whose precarious status weighs on all the teams. It's your responsibility. We will probably come back to this in the budget debate, but we cannot applaud a text whose symbolic significance is strong because it enshrines in the law a form of recognition if, at the same time, it maintains in a precarious status, without any wage evolution, the personnel who, on a daily basis, foster a culture of indispensable proximity. It is not enough to pay for words: the means must be put up to the ambitions and extraordinary work provided by the agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u234	Tell that to the mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u235	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u236	It is unnecessary to recall here the importance of the tasks carried out by the departmental libraries: this amendment is therefore intended to prevent the departments which have benefited from the transfer by the State of a central lending library, pursuant to the Act of 22 July 1983, from abolishing their departmental library. This provision, which does not create additional burdens for the departments, was formulated several months ago by the author and rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Sylvie Robert, as well as by your rapporteur, in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u238	He is very supportive, as is the case with my colleague Senator Sylvie Robert. I had tabled a similar amendment in committee, but it was declared inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution; Mrs Aurore Bergé also spoke about this during the general discussion. Departmental libraries play a role of general interest in the animation of municipal libraries and in the training of librarians, among others. It is thus very regrettable that the Yvelines department has removed its own: according to the returns that have reached me, this closure has had disastrous consequences, especially during the pandemic. To prevent this happening again and to support libraries, let us all vote for this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u239	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u240	This amendment raises the question of our report to the local authorities, as we discuss with the departmental councils, which carry out their tasks in accordance with the principle of the free administration of local authorities. Under the amendment, departments will not be able to "delete [departmental libraries], cease maintaining or making them work". The summary statement states that they will receive, as compensation, the special "Libraries" competition. So, Madam Minister, are you committed to offering them compensation, to enable them to maintain the functioning of these libraries and to pursue all the goals that you set on behalf of the state? These go very far, we must ensure fair compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u241	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u242	Let's not mix the debates. Budgetary matters will be dealt with later; It is rather a question of asserting principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u243	But it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u244	Do you want to make me criticize the management of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques department?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u245	Free to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u246	I would like to avoid hitting some people. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u247	Let us be clear: the amendment refers to plans to abolish existing departmental libraries, which follow, in particular, the creation of a new library. Such projects would exempt departments from an obligation to which they have already complied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u248	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u249	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] The amendment will therefore not create any new expenditure for the departments, which would have to be compensated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u250	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u251	Following the withdrawal by my colleague Erwan Balanant of Amendment No 14, I withdraw mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u252	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 37 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u253	The question is a little technical; I'll try to be as clear as possible. The amendment is intended to delete paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 10, which aim to extend the list of direct beneficiaries of the special assistance created within the general allocation of decentralization in respect of the financing of municipal, inter-municipal and departmental libraries, known as DGD Libraries, to public cultural cooperation institutions – EPCC – and public interest groups – IPG – in order to better take into account the diversity of the ways in which this competence is exercised. Indeed, respect for the legal basis of the particular competition, intended for the communal bloc and the department, leads to a preference for a regulatory response. This will allow municipalities, intercommunal communities or departments to benefit from DGD Libraries to fund IPTFs and ECDCs that contribute to the exercise of their library skills. I hope I've been clear enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u255	[[Smile]] On the basis of the explanations given by the Minister, the opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u256	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u257	This appeal amendment was blown to me by the director of the very beautiful media library of Béziers, in which we have just inaugurated the library Daniel-Cordier, which gathers the books of the famous companion of the Resistance. DVDs, as audiovisual documents, are subject to special legislation: they cannot be given or sold, so that some are destroyed. When the DVD is scratched, it's understandable; When it is in excellent condition, it is regrettable. The amendment is therefore intended to place DVDs under Article L. 3212-4 of the General Code of Ownership of Public Persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u259	Thank you for this interesting amendment. However, as you indicate, library DVDs cannot be given or sold, as they are not subject to the same copyright regulations as books. I do not see how we can act on this in the context of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u261	Request for withdrawal; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable. Indeed, I felt, Madam rapporteur, that the term "document" already included DVDs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u262	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u263	No, the term "document" does not include DVDs, which are regulated differently. As I pointed out, this is an appeal amendment: DVDs should also be subject to the regime provided for in the general code of ownership of public persons. Madam rapporteur, I understand that it is impossible to take such a step in this text. This common sense clarification, however, should be deepened when reviewing another piece of legislation, or when considering the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u264	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u265	The representative of the excellent DGMIC – Directorate General for Media and Cultural Industries – who helps me in this debate confirms to me that the term "document" covers DVDs well. We will be able to give you all the necessary details.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u266	The rapporteur's amendment No 49 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u267	Mr Bachelier keeps reminding me: on the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u268	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No 25, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u269	There is little data on the increasing use of contract workers in libraries. We therefore propose the preparation of an inventory of the number of contractors working in the libraries of local and regional authorities and their groupings, as well as the reasons why they do not have the status of official. The report will estimate the cost of their tenure and training activities, which are essential for the practice of librarianship. Finally, this report will give an overview of the consequences of this phenomenon for both the organisation of libraries, the quality of service to users and the living conditions of these precarious staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u271	In committee, I have already indicated to you that I am against your request for a report; However, it would be interesting to have such data not only on contract workers but also on volunteers, who are very numerous – around 80000 – in libraries and contribute to their survival.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u273	We are already doing this work within the Ministry of Culture. The statistics collected by my services on the activity of territorial libraries each year provide a precise photograph of the people who work in the library, whether they are public servants, contractors or volunteers. In addition, on 30 November, my services will organize the foundation of training in the territorial library, to launch a major training renovation project. Several obstacles that complicate the organization of public service recruitment competitions have already been identified: we will try to lift them. You propose to go further, to understand the motivations of the communities when recruiting. If this work can be interesting, it seems to me, for the moment, too vast.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u274	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u275	Minister, you have just confirmed the need for a report. If your services already have the data that, unfortunately, we have not been able to obtain, this should be done quickly, at least for some parts. We mentioned earlier the closure of departmental libraries and funding problems. Thus, the Library Plan, because it is not sustainable, contributes to the creation of jobs for many contractors, but does not allow them to continue. As all professionals will tell you, there is an urgent need to sustain this funding, rather than to stay on seeding measures, all the more so as you extend the missions of agents and communities and increase your demands on them, as our colleagues have pointed out. Here we give you the opportunity to go beyond the principled positions and to respond to the demands of professionals, agents and communities, by asking you about the rooting of agents, the sustainability of positions and the end of insecurity, which is very important in this sector. You cannot claim the importance of culture, while continuing to rely on very precarious agents, nor applaud our country's cultural reputation, when it is built on the backs of these workers! Take the opportunity to adopt this request for a more urgent report than ever before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u276	I call Mrs Stéphanie Atger to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u277	The discussions showed that consensus prevails over the importance of everyone's access to culture in all territories. While actions to improve the territorial coverage and networking of libraries of local authorities or their groups are therefore essential, they must be followed by targeted actions to help those who are furthest away from mastering the French language. It is not a question of asking the departmental libraries to replace the school of the Republic, but of making them play a complementary role, in order to contribute to the progress of the publics who request it. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to submit a report on the desirability of entrusting departmental libraries with a mission to reduce illiteracy within their departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u279	I thank you both for this request for a report and for your fight against illiteracy, a real scourge in the overseas countries – it concerns some 60% of the population in Mayotte. All means will be good to fight this calamity. We have anchored in the law the role of libraries, at all levels – departmental and territorial – in integrating disability and combating illiteracy and illiteracy. As you have understood, we do not have the will to include a report in the law. Thank you very much for this fight and for your address.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u281	There are two objects in the amendment: you first recall that departmental libraries have the task of combating illiteracy and illiteracy. It is not useful to remind him at this stage of the debate and at this point in the text. You then stress – you are right – the situation in the overseas departments, which of course requires special attention and requires better training of library staff. A reflection on the overseas is being specifically initiated in my ministry's work on the training of territorial librarians. Rather than producing a report, there is a need for concrete action on the training of territorial librarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u282	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u283	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for these additional elements and I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u284	[[Bruno Studer frowns the eyebrows]] [[Smile]] Before voting, groups have the opportunity to speak. Mr President Studer, you should have thought about it when you redrafted the Rules of Procedure! You deleted things that were useful...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u285	You're lending me a power I don't have!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u286	You have more than me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u287	Now you're the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u288	[[Laugh. – Mr Florian Bachelier acquiesce]] Mr. Florian Bachelier is also present, he is co-responsible! In explanation of vote, Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u289	The text has the merit of incorporating some key principles into the law, including free access to libraries in local and regional authorities. We regret that it does not provide for the principle of free lending. With regard to the pluralism of collections, we regret that parity is not included, of course. We also mention the gift of books that have become useless. By voluntarily remaining very consensual, the bill does not respond to the current tensions: how can the opening hours of libraries be extended while preserving the rights of staff? How can equal access to libraries be guaranteed throughout the country? How can we support the public service that is sluggish in working-class neighbourhoods and rural communities for lack of resources? How to amplify actions outside the walls, in order to develop reading? How can users be encouraged to participate in the operation of libraries? How can the profession of full librarian be preserved, while the number of contract workers, often unskilled, is increasing? [[Mrs Roselyne Bachelot protested]] While culture was considered non-essential by the Government during confinement and access to libraries is currently restricted by a health pass – when access to bookstores and shops in general is not – the bill misses the opportunity to make real progress in public policy for library development and reading. It certainly includes great progress: that is why the La France group will vote for it, but, I repeat, we miss many things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u290	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u291	It is a very book-like afternoon that we live and it is a pleasure, because the importance of one of the pillars of culture, reading and, in particular, public reading, is thus consecrated. We know that the opening of libraries and the extension of their schedules are important elements, if we are to develop more widely the cultural rights of each individual, to create and grow the desire for reading and to work as a territorial network to combat illiteracy. Of course, communities do not all have the same means, and we need the necessary budgetary support for the communities in order to achieve results that meet our expectations. The rapporteur, Florence Provendier, stressed that it would be necessary to work again and again to facilitate access to excluded audiences, because the power of books in terms of imagination, meeting, exchanges and debates was essential. Various amendments have been adopted; several of us agree. There are still some discussions about the donation of books and how it could fit into the circular economy. Many communities take advantage of the optional "cultural facilities" competence, which feeds into a very interesting debate on community councils. As for the recognition of free libraries in intercommunities, it is a strong act, but it will have to be accompanied by the public authorities. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, I would like to say a few words for the librarians of our country, who have problems with health measures. We need their presence and expertise, so we need to think about it. Nevertheless, as my colleague Sylvie Tolmont explained during the general discussion, the Socialist and Related Group obviously supports the text and is very pleased to thank her author, our colleague Senator Sylvie Robert, for her work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u292	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u293	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 82 Number of votes cast 82 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 82 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u294	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u295	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u296	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to strengthen the book economy and to strengthen equity and trust between its actors (No 4229, 4499).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u297	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u298	The book is not a good like any other, it is an object apart that occupies in our society a singular place: vector of transmission, knowledge and escape. It is around this essential conviction that State support for the book industry has been structured since the 1980s. By introducing a single book price, by constantly supporting the various links in the chain through the help of the Centre national du livre, France has been able, over the last forty years, to protect this sector while accompanying its changes. The book industry, like the rest of the economy, has been hit by the crisis that we have just been through. But the State has supported it by very exceptional cross-cutting and sectoral measures. While there was no doubt that the French were attached to books and reading, the health crisis was also an opportunity to recall it and highlight our first cultural industry. Beyond this necessary short-term support, support for the book sector must be constant. That is why I wanted to devote a great deal of money to it as part of the recovery plan. In 2021 and 2022, EUR 53 million will finance the modernisation of bookstores and libraries, the generalisation of the Youth in Bookstore scheme and the strengthening of public purchases of books. While the financial support of the state is essential to enable the sector to cope with the structural changes it has been experiencing for the past ten years, it is also necessary to adapt our legislation: it is the purpose of Senator Laure Darcos' bill, which joined us in the House of Commons – I commend her commitment and her work. The Government fully endorses the objectives of the text, which is why it has requested that the bill be expedited and has chosen to include it in the agenda of the National Assembly today. In the continuation of the wish expressed by the President of the Republic on 21 April in Nevers, it is a matter of finding a single price of the book, equalizing the price of the shipment and objectivating its cost for books ordered on the internet and delivered at home. Thus, this welcome text completes and modernises the regulation of the book sector, with three challenges: supporting our bookstores and restoring fair competition in the book market; improve the contractual relationship between authors and publishers; adapt the collection of digital works. Some measures aim to modernise and adapt the fixed price law. The Lang Act of 10 August 1981, which we celebrated on the fortieth anniversary, demonstrated its essential role in maintaining the diversity of book distribution networks and editorial diversity. However, certain practices weaken the balance that legislation must preserve: they must be framed as they develop and settle in the landscape of book trade. The text contains provisions to regulate the selling price of the book more firmly. The aim is to complement and improve the framework for distance selling practices. The legislator introduced it in 2014, with consequences that were far from null. However, it now appears to be insufficient, as unfair conditions of competition persist in the market. One operator systematically suggests that books be delivered almost free of charge, regardless of the quantity and amount of purchase: no other actor can offer such a bargain to the reader. Moreover, the said operator proposes this extraordinary pricing policy – strange generosity – only for books. This commercial practice, which the text seeks to prohibit, undoubtedly constitutes a new form of price competition, which no longer allows the 1981 law to produce its full effect. These provisions are therefore useful and even necessary. It also seems essential to better inform the consumer, clarifying the distinction between new and used books in online sales. In line with the recommendations of the Book Ombudsman, it is a matter of avoiding confusion in the consumer's mind, which tends to blur the perception of the principle of the single price of the new book. The Book Ombudsman also recommended that we ensure that the practice of book balances is tightened in the context of direct sales by publishers, so as not to weaken the bookstore economy. The principle of fairness, which underpins the bill, must guide the search for solutions in the field of relations between the author and his publisher. Last March, I presented a programme of measures to improve the conditions under which authors were created. One of these aims is to accompany professional negotiations on the balance of contractual relations, particularly in the book sector. As a follow-up to the long process of interprofessional consultation leading to the fundamental reform of the economy of contractual relations in 2014, I entrusted Professor Pierre Sirinelli with a new mission of mediation. It aims to support professional organisations representing authors and publishers in the work of evaluating and revising the agreement of 1 December 2014 on the publishing contract in the book sector, concluded between the Permanent Council of Writers and the National Publishing Union. This revision exercise must resolve the difficulties arising from the application of the Agreement and allow for the evolution of professional practices and the changes induced by digital technologies to be taken into account. At this new stage of the inter-professional dialogue, we must allow time to prosper and reach consensus solutions, which the various actors can appropriate. However, some consensual issues do not fall within the scope of the 2014 agreement, such as the difficulties specifically related to the cessation of publishing businesses. They require that the law be adapted without delay. The text allows, in the event of the termination of the publisher's activity, on the one hand, to improve the information of the authors on the exploitation of the published works, on the other hand, to facilitate the resumption of his rights by the author, by simplifying the conditions for the termination of his contract. The bill also provides a legislative basis for the interprofessional agreement on the supervision of the practices of provision for returns of unsold copies and intertitle compensation, signed by the Permanent Council of Writers and the National Publishing Union in 2017. All these measures will improve the balance of relations between authors and publishers and their transparency. Finally, the bill provides a much-anticipated complement to the legislative framework for the legal deposit of works in the digital age. Since the royal order of 28 December 1537, legal deposit has been an essential mechanism for building the documentary memory of France. It ensures the entry into the national collections of the editorial production broadcast on the territory, and its preservation for future generations. The Law of 1 August 2006 on Copyright and Related Rights in the Information Society introduced a mechanism for the automatic collection of online public communication services, i.e. websites, as well as their digital content. However, it no longer guarantees the effectiveness of legal deposit for works that are not freely accessible. Because they are protected by passwords or on-line purchasing systems, many digital works are no longer automatically collected by the robots of the depositary bodies known as the Bibliothèque nationale de France – BNF –, the Institut national de l'audiovisuel – INA – and the Centre national du cinéma et de l'image animée – CNC. In order to overcome this difficulty and to allow for the completion of legal deposit, it is therefore necessary to amend the legislative framework now. The aim is to allow publishers and producers of digital content which is not freely accessible to deposit the content themselves with the said depositaries, as is the case with physical documents. In this way, France would join the countries that are already collecting digital documents in full. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Changes in the book sector over the past several years made it necessary to adapt the existing legislative framework. That is the whole meaning of this bill, to which I fully support on behalf of the Government. I am pleased that, after the Senate in June, the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education adopted it unanimously last week. This shows that beyond the usual divisions, the Government, the majority and the opposition can and do come together to support culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u299	[[At 18:05, Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. David Habib in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u300	Mrs Geraldine Bannier, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u301	In 1981, the price of the single book was adopted: successive governments have since continued to boast the virtuous principles of the law, especially in 2011 and 2014, when it was necessary to adapt regulation to the digital age. In the face of "a commercial transformation whose consequences [were] far from being culturally neutral," as they generated "very strong competition," Lang seized the subject of prices broken by hypermarkets and major brands, to allow a rich network of retailers to maintain themselves in the territory, thus preserving editorial diversity. Other times, other manners? It's not so sure. The pages turn but the situation is not far from similar, as the mastodonts have only changed their name and mode of action. In fact, independent bookstores are excluded from online sales; The shipping costs they charge are sometimes several hundred times higher than those of retailers who offer a one-cent rate, which respects all ric-rac the 2014 free shipping ban. A new pocket book, Candide for example, is currently sold, with delivery ranging from 3.06 to 10.95 euros, at the discretion of retailers: manifest sprain at the single price of the book. The explanation is simple. Small bookstores are subject to much higher costs than large companies: the charges charged by carriers vary at least from double to double and the preparation costs are much higher, due to a smaller volume. They only have the choice to fully pass on the real cost to the customer, at the risk of losing it, or taking it on their own, but to sacrifice their margin – corneal dilemma and mortiferous. Laure Darcos's bill, which I thank for its investment and presence, therefore intends to allow the ministers responsible for culture and the economy, in conjunction with the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and the Distribution of the Press (ARCEP), to determine a minimum price applicable to the shipping costs for the delivery of a book. Thus, the financial situation of online bookstores will be improved mechanically. We can imagine that medium-sized bookstores, by internalising some of the costs, will be able to align themselves with this floor price and will become competitive with Amazon, FNAC, Leclerc or Gibert, by offering their customers an identical price. Even better, such a measure could encourage some readers to move to the physical point of sale, to avoid the extra cost. For those who, close to a bookshop, should avoid sending to home, this would represent an undeniable improvement in the social and environmental fields. The objective is fully in line with the healthy return to the local trade, which it is essential to support, as the circumstances have shown. It is to be hoped that the measure really influences practices, in favour of clicking and withdrawing, and above all that it encourages the public to see that its way of consuming has effects on local activity and the environment. An awareness of this has developed in the context of containment: we can encourage it. We are facing an opportunity to seize, a kairos – if I may. Nevertheless, the adoption of this measure is a real bet. It is not easy to anticipate the effects on the real economy. Further postponements are possible, to the e-book, the used book, other cultural or leisure property, which will not fund authors or publishers at an equivalent level: they will have to be closely observed. The effectiveness of the measure could also be undermined by circumvention, but, as is well known, the imagination of the GAFAMs far exceeds the tax field. Everything will also depend on the tariff that the regulatory power will define: too weak, it would not help bookstores and cannot change the market; It would favour a postponement to the physical market but at the price, no doubt, of a dry loss for the whole industry. However, as Jack Lang pointed out, the reader is looking for "[first], a uniform price. Second, the reader is looking for a moderate price, as moderate as possible. Third, the reader seeks to have a known price. And finally the reader seeks to find books everywhere, according to a sampling as varied as possible." That is why our committee has adopted an amendment which provides that the Government will provide Parliament with an assessment, two years after the entry into force of the order setting the minimum tariff. The aim is to measure the effects of the new regulation on the retailers' network and public access to the book, setting out the reported carry-overs, specifying whether the measure is favourable to large players or small independent bookstores and analysing the effects on readers' purchasing practices, in particular according to their territory and purchasing power. I call on the Government to develop the statistical, econometric and survey tools necessary for the preparation of this report as soon as the decree is issued. They will be of use to us when Parliament evaluates the scheme in three years' time. In addition, I encourage the Government to pursue the necessary complementary actions, which, without being within the purview of Parliament, are indispensable. While much has already been done to make our young people readers – 15 minutes reading, operation "All in bookstores", pass culture – all initiatives – travelling bookstores, book boxes – must be supported, as must associations that fight geographical and even psychological barriers to access to the book, which are going to meet new readers to conquer. In this year of reading, I also express the hope that all the waiting rooms in France, whatever they may be, can make the time lost useful by presenting books to see and read, so as to democratise the book even more and more. There is also a need to raise awareness that it is possible to order any book from any retailer, and to raise awareness of the Single Price Act: a quarter of people who buy their books outside of bookstores think they are more expensive than elsewhere. It will also be necessary to continue the modernisation of independent bookstores and the entire distribution chain. If the provision on the minimum tariff for shipping costs makes the distortion of competition less acute, online sales libraries must become more competitive in terms of the practicality of the order and the speed of making available, which are important elements of the purchase act. Furthermore, in order to fully win our bet, we will have to work on the preparation and shipping costs faced by the booksellers, the effectiveness of such a mechanism based largely on the negotiation of agreements with the carriers – the first of which is La Poste – with the support of the public authorities. I come back to this bill, which contains other essential provisions for the benefit of the whole industry. First, section 1 prohibits partial sales to publishers: they cannot pay their own books, especially online, to the detriment of their retailers. In the same article, I welcome the provision which makes it possible to distinguish between new and second-hand books without any ambiguity, whereas the latter is not always very clear on the market places which have developed recently. Article 2 will allow communities to provide more support to independent bookstores, especially those that are experiencing difficulties, through a subsidy scheme that goes beyond the existing tax provisions, by also covering the operation of these institutions. Article 3 is crucial for the authors. It aims to regulate by law the contractual practice of intertitle compensation – a puncture carried out on another work of the same author in case of overpayment in relation to actual sales –, this progress resulting from the 2017 agreements. The situation of the authors will also be significantly improved in the event of cessation of the publishing house's voluntary or judicial activity. Finally, Article 5 makes indispensable and expected changes to the digital legal deposit: the task of the depositary bodies – INA, BNF and CNC – will be greatly facilitated, with an increasing number of works and documents not yet collected. It is therefore all the players, from writing to conservation, who will benefit from the measures that we are going to discuss. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] A broad consensus has been expressed in committee and there is little to be done differently in the meeting. Our predecessors have said it and repeated it to the envious, the book is not an object like any other: it is a good friend, a window of escape where man hides and meets, as we also meet at the detour of the pages. The stories of children of the people, whose singularity of the journey is intrinsically linked to the book, are beautiful. We must never stop wanting to make each other meet, as much as possible, everywhere, books and children, this is the last wish I make. I thank the author of this bill, the administrator who worked with me, but also my dear authors, never disappeared, who accompany me every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u302	In the general discussion, Mr Jean-Michel Clément spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u303	I know what I owe to the book and maybe you too: travels, questions, encounters, breaths, happiness, sadness. I also know, and above all, what I owe to book lovers: publishers and booksellers, authors and readers. Behind every book, more than just a story, there are men and women who want to share it with you. I like to enter these human bookstores, meet the booksellers and publishers attached to their profession, true cultural mediators. I still have the memory of my student bookshop, the library of the University in Poitiers, now gone like so many others. I also have in mind the capital city of my constituency, a city dear to Régine Deforges as well as to my deputy and her small publishing company, the Escampette, in Montmorillon in Vienna. However, I am concerned about the current period. What an anger to see, while booksellers and independent publishers suffer, that capitalism is at work to create monopolies of thought. Indeed, just as in 2003 there was the merger between Hachette and Vivendi Universal – now known as Editis – another threat is emerging today: the acquisition of control of Lagardère, owner of Hachette, by Vivendi. The combined weight of the two leading groups in the book market accounts for more than half of the turnover of bookstores. Such economic and commercial dependence, which suggests market concentration, threatens independent bookstores and the entire book market. It was with these contrasting feelings and tenacious emotions that I addressed this bill. In this text, widely adopted by our honourable senators, there are finally two complementary issues: the economic development of independent bookstores, but also access to culture for all, throughout the territory. In both cases, we have seen an upheaval, which has been taking place in recent years, with the arrival of online sales platforms in particular. E-commerce has stifled our consumption patterns: as we know, the book sector is particularly concerned, because too often this has been done at the expense of independent bookstores. Therefore, the proposed law offers interesting tools, in order to combat the distortion of competition between independent bookstores and major platforms such as Amazon. The 2014 law prohibiting free shipping charges for works delivered at home showed its limits and the legislation had to be adapted in line with these developments. This is all the more true since the epidemic of covid-l9 and confinements have reminded citizens of their attachment to their local bookstores. Since the first confinement, many of us had called for bookstores to be considered essential businesses, so that they could remain open and accessible to all, including in times of pandemics. In the same vein, it is essential to support independent bookstores, which are constantly losing market share in the face of large platforms. It is a question of both contributing to access to culture in our territories and to the development of employment in our territories. The text provides for relevant provisions, in particular the regulation of postal tariffs. The containment of autumn 2020, during which the State took over the cost of carrying the booksellers, to enable them to align themselves with the almost free shipping tariffs, blew up their online sales, which increased by 500 %, thus demonstrating that acting on the shipping costs is an essential lever to help the development of independent bookstores. However, this is a tool that needs to be handled with caution: the level of the minimum tariff will determine the effectiveness of the future law. This will have to be low enough not to discourage the purchase and sale of books online, but high enough to be attractive to booksellers, who do not have the same ability to negotiate tariffs. Let us also ensure that the minimum fee for delivery costs applies to all delivery arrangements: at home, but also as a relay point or in a non-book retail locker. Why not extend the postal charges in force for the shipment of books abroad to French territory? This would be a simple measure, since La Poste already applies it for extraterritorial shipments, which could be framed in order to prevent abuses and the effects of bounty. This is already the practice abroad for shipments of up to two kilos: this system, which exists in Germany and Italy, gives full satisfaction. We could have drawn inspiration from it, perhaps it is not too late to do so. On the other hand, we stress that the arguments in favour of setting postal tariffs are both economic and ecological: at a time when online sales are booming, it is important to remember that this is not without consequences, neither for our local businesses nor for the environment. Beyond this main provision, other measures seem to us to be in the right direction, in particular those that allow better information for consumers – including the mandatory distinction between new and used books – and those that go in the direction of better information for authors on the exploitation of their work, in the event of a cessation of the publisher's activity. Our group is rather welcoming the discussions on this text. However, I invite you to consider it as a first step and to put the work back on the job. The book deserves a greater ambition, a more systemic vision of the entire book ecosystem and of reading in France. As you pointed out, Madam Minister, in your introductory remarks, the book is not a product like any other: have a true cultural ambition and give us the means of this ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u304	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u305	This bill aimed at improving the book economy comes forty years after the Lang law, which set the single price for books in order to combat unfair competition from large areas. Prior to the introduction of this law in 1981, the book was subject to competition laws, in the same way as other consumer goods. This law has thus brought about a paradigm shift, and not least: the book is not a commodity, it is an exceptional cultural good. The debates of the time echo those of recent times on the essential nature of the opening of bookshops. One of the objectives of the 1981 Act was to give a red card to the Fnac system. Today, it is the Amazon system, whose emergence has weakened what was a major step forward for the book industry, which must be countered. The free delivery of books, prohibited by the law of 8 July 2014 regulating the conditions of the distance sale of books, was easily bypassed by this e-commerce giant, who offered delivery at a cent euro. On average, however, shipping costs are between €6.50 and €7 for independent bookstores. Bookstores are the least profitable retail trade and do not have the financial capacity to amplify their already very low margins. Amazon engages in unfair competition and circumvents the single book price law. We therefore welcome section 1 of this bill, which introduces a regulated tariff on the delivery of books. It extends the spirit of the 1981 Act, by virtue of which everything cannot be based on market laws. Moreover, Article 1 has an ecological dimension: the multiplication of home deliveries is an ecological nonsense. A study by CREDOC (research centre for the study and observation of living conditions) in 2012 has shown that the majority of consumers buying online reside in cities close to bookstores or large areas, where they can obtain supplies. However, I write a little bit about the limits of this article, since Amazon's customers have the possibility to order a mixed basket – a book with other products – likely to be delivered for a cent of euro. Article 2 allows local authorities or groups to subsidise bookstores, as is already the case for cinemas. This provision, which has been demanded for many years by the booksellers and by the communities engaged with them, could have been supplemented by a measure allowing the media libraries to obtain books from the booksellers, which is also a recurrent demand of independent bookstores. The status of authors remains the issue, with almost half of them earning less than SMIC. We will, I hope, create other spaces to do so. This bill will support the book industry, which is the second largest sector in the French cultural industry, and will help relieve the network of 4000 independent booksellers in our territory. We believe that this is an insufficient but necessary step: as you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u306	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u307	Forty years ago, the Lang law introduced the single price of the book. Today, we still measure the effects on editorial diversity, but also on the density of the territory's mesh size by bookstores. They are close to 3500 in France and form a dynamic network, as evidenced by recent openings by employees in vocational retraining, a phenomenon that has increased with the health crisis. But let us also remember that the Lang law was a necessity to restore fairness between the actors. The bookstores were in fact competed with large areas that distributed only successful books while at the same time practicing lower prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u308	The bill to strengthen the book economy and to strengthen fairness and trust between its players must, in the same way, allow us to restore equity in the book market between, on the one hand, booksellers who cannot develop online due to very high shipping costs, which they offer or are forced to charge their customers, and, on the other hand, large online sales platforms which charge a cent for the delivery of books – which is probably less than the cost to the company, moreover. It is true that these companies today comply with the law of 8 July 2014, which prohibited free delivery. But acknowledge this: this system has been bypassed and is all the more insufficient as the share of book purchases over the Internet has increased tenfold in 20 years. This bill, by introducing a minimum amount of shipping costs, will address this need for fairness. We will thus encourage the return of consumers to bookstores, which are shops but also places of exchange and culture. In this year when reading is a major national cause, it is also necessary to encourage visitors to bookstores, thereby removing psychological barriers to access to culture. Of course, not all French people live above a bookshop, we know, even though we also know that a majority of those who order online are very close to a bookshop. We must therefore encourage those who do not have a bookstore near them to consider other forms of orders. Our idea is to encourage them to use, rather than the large platforms, the sites of independent booksellers who offer home delivery. These sites exist, encourage them, encourage booksellers to open them. Of course, not all booksellers want to expand online sales – some have told us. But to all those who wish to do so, we guarantee that they will not suffer any distortion of competition. In committee last week, we adopted two identical amendments from the LaREM and Dem groups, which provide for the Government to submit a report, within two years, on the effects of this system on the book market, the retail network and public access to the purchase of books. We will thus measure the real effects of this minimum pricing scheme, but also the on-board effects or circumvention practices that might develop. Some of these may already be anticipated; We will return to this in our debates in order to clearly explain the will of the legislator. What is important today is to act: we have seen how much the booksellers have adapted, but we have also seen their fragility. We have never talked more about booksellers than we did in 2020. This period of health crisis has enabled us to become aware of the strength of the link between the French and their booksellers. The decline in turnover has been limited and the Government's support has been unprecedented. Booksellers' shipments of books exploded during the two months during which the government took over shipping costs: the increase was 500 per cent in November 2020 compared to November 2019. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We are therefore acting, even if this bill will not solve everything. I salute Laure Darcos, present in the gallery this afternoon: she is at the origin of this welcome bill, which makes it possible to reaffirm the support of the French, the Government and parliamentarians to the 3,500 independent booksellers as well as to all readers. It is a bill that allows everyone to choose: the bookseller, to decide whether or not to make an online sale; the reader, choose to support independent booksellers or buy his book on an online sales platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u309	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u310	Today we are studying the bill to strengthen the book economy and to strengthen fairness and trust between its actors, tabled by our colleague Senator Laure Darcos, whom I would like to thank for his presence this afternoon as well as for his commitment, for years, to the book, both by his profession and by his Senate mandate. This bill marks a turning point. It was adopted unanimously by the Senate, as well as by the National Assembly's Committee on Cultural Affairs, where I want to thank Constance Le Grip for bringing the voice of our group. Proust said: "Every reader is, when he reads, his own reader of himself. The writer's work is only a kind of optical instrument that he offers to the reader in order to enable him to discern what without this book he might not have seen in himself. Proust was right. The book is much more than a set of printed pages. A book is a essence, it is a part of the writer, and through it a part of ourselves. Booksellers have this taste of the book and know how to transmit it. They are the guardians of the temple and it is our responsibility to preserve their know-how and economy. This bill is a new step, in line with the Lang law of 10 August 1981 already cited, which marked the economy of the book by introducing the single price, with the only possibility of a 5% rebate application – the real criterion of differentiation being the quality of the service. It must be noted that this equity is being undermined by the uberization of our society, which affects all sectors. The phenomenon of e-commerce, with home delivery, has grown and some platforms have used delivery costs to distinguish themselves from independent bookstores: they have started to deliver books without paying for delivery costs. Unfair competition is thus exercised at the expense of the booksellers, who cannot practice such freedom. A 2014 law passed at the initiative of the UMP group has tried to correct this problem by prohibiting free deliveries, but this is not enough: this provision is circumvented by almost free delivery of books that independent bookstores cannot consider. The main objective of this bill is therefore to introduce a minimum price for the delivery of books, in order to restore the principle of fairness and to preserve the attractiveness of our bookstores against online platforms, in a branch of commerce that is already among the least profitable. This is a cause for consensus in Parliament. The entire national representation says with the same voice: our bookstores are a wealth, an essential element of our cultural model, giving life to literature and democratizing access to culture. This wealth is 3,300 independent bookstores, which employ 13,000 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u311	We love our booksellers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u312	Let me say a word about the health crisis. We all remember the closures of so-called "non-essential" businesses. In particular, the bookstores had to lower the curtain, which created polemics; even the bookstore shelves of the large surfaces have had to close – you remember that we had opposed this measure. It was a boon for the delivery of books at home, and especially for e-commerce platforms that offer almost free delivery costs. Bookstores have suffered enormously from this health crisis and it is high time to respond to the distortion of the principle of equity. The other provisions of the proposal also go in the right direction, that of infallible support to the book economy and its actors: it opens the referral of the book mediator to the authors and their representative organisations; it amends the publishing contract, in particular to prohibit the practice of financial compensation between works; Finally, it allows local authorities to provide grants to independent bookstores. This important bill has been unanimous in the Senate and in committee, which we can welcome. Let us once again show, here in our Chamber, massive support for this bill. The Republicans Group, you understand, will vote on this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u313	Both hands!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u314	... because it helps to fight unfair competition between Internet giants and our independent booksellers; because delivery, which involves additional wages and carbonized transport, cannot be free, necessarily having an economic and environmental cost; because delivery to a point of sale – bookstore or large area with a specialized radius – will remain free of charge. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let us protect the French cultural exception and our book economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u315	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u316	We are gathered to consider the bill to strengthen the book economy and to strengthen fairness and trust among its actors, tabled by Senator Laure Darcos, whom I welcome. I am pleased that our Assembly is taking up this text today, which marks important advances for the book industry and its actors. It is all the more proud of the Dem Group that the rapporteur for this text is one of us, Géraldine Bannier, whose commitment to reading is well known here, particularly as president of the book and paper economy study group. The President of the Republic declared the reading "great national cause" for the years 2021 and 2022; To address the economy of the book, and reading in general, is to address one of the essential subjects of France and its culture. For while reading can be seen as a leisure, it is above all one of the most powerful tools for the rise of our society. This bill aims to provide solutions to improve the economy of this sector, which still has many weaknesses, both in terms of profitability and in terms of managing relations between publishers and authors. Article 1 bears witness to the strength of our ambition as it aims to support the players of the book in the face of competition from digital giants. At a time when the large online platforms, which are essentially foreign, are gaining a huge share of the French market for the sale of books by distance, in particular thanks to the massive and rapid deliveries they are able to make, this proposal for a law intends to limit this distortion of competition by setting up an unprecedented mechanism to fix a minimum postal rate for the delivery of works purchased online. Although we fully support this measure, the Dem Group wished to remind the committee of the caution which must be exercised when adopting measures whose impact on the market is difficult to assess. I am therefore pleased that our amendment, which provides for the submission of a government report on the effects of the implementation of this system on the book market, the retail network and public access to the purchase of books, has been adopted in committee. Furthermore, with regard to Article 1, our group welcomes the provision introduced by the rapporteur during the examination in committee, which allows retailers to practice free shipping costs when delivery is not at the buyer's home but in a bookstore. This measure allows flexibility, as it should not be an obstacle to initiatives aimed at regrouping independent booksellers to offer online sales platforms, and should not penalise the practice of clic-withdrawn. Finally, Member of Parliament Céline Calvez will defend an amendment allowing the use of subscription or retention devices put in place by online sales platforms to avoid the possibility of circumventing the minimum amount of pricing. While the objectives of this amendment seem to us to be commendable, we would nevertheless like to take the time for debate in the sitting to assess the relevance of this proposal. Article 2 authorises the granting of grants to independent bookstores. As they face growing difficulties in maintaining themselves on the market, we fully endorse this measure, which increases our support for them. Finally, article 3 deals with the framework of contractual relations between publishers and authors. During the examination in session, the rapporteur will defend amendments on intertitle compensation and on the principle of provision for return, in order to include in the law the interprofessional agreement between authors and publishers of 2017. These provisions will be a real step forward since, by setting these principles, they will allow the progress of the 2017 Agreement to be harmonised while facilitating their application on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats fully supports this bill and will vote enthusiastically in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u317	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u318	As you all recalled, on August 10, 1981, the law on the price of books was promulgated at the initiative of the Socialists. It was a real revolution, a paradigm shift with regard to the commodification of cultural goods and, more particularly, of books. Jack Lang, Minister of Culture, declared in the rostrum of our assembly "to refuse to abandon the price of cultural goods to the destructive laws of the market." If it is an object of emancipation and of knowing who needs to be protected, it is the book. This law was protective because it established a single offer of the book price for all French and French people, wherever they were on the territory, because it protected authors in their plurality and, of course, because it supported independent bookstores in the face of unfair competition from hypermarkets. Since then, hypermarkets are no longer a competing force and often have autonomous cultural spaces, but other upheavals stemming from digital and new consumption patterns are the source of scandalous inequalities between booksellers and giants such as Amazon. However, independent bookstores form a local link in our cultural policy, which is essential to the vitality of the territories. They are, together with libraries, a gateway to a shared culture and to the pleasure of discovery, a tool for cultural mediation. The health crisis has reminded us of the commitment of French and French people to these businesses that have never been so essential – let us remember the anger of the French when the Government found that bookstores were not essential. The bill enshrines the prohibition of free shipping of books in order to respond to the distortion created by Amazon's offer, which, thanks to questionable practices and its volumetricity, benefits from preferential rates with La Poste but also with private carriers. Finally, the main purpose of the text is to encourage readers to buy books in bookstores. We fully support this objective, which, in addition to promoting a cultural actor to which we are attached, will help to anchor an ecological concern in the minds, in the face of the eagerness of buyers who want everything faster, cheaper and all the time. It is clear that the development of home delivery, if it can be conceived in territories that are really far from the shops, cannot become the rule: it is a disaster from the point of view of sustainable development but also from a social perspective, as the working conditions of the delivery agents of the platforms are difficult. We have noted some reservations about this measure, such as the fear that it will not achieve its objective, for example because of the use of mixed baskets, or the fear that it will restore the margins of certain actors who do not need them. It will also be necessary to set a shipping rate that is neither a hindrance for customers nor an excessive burden for booksellers and publishers. We are satisfied with the amendment adopted in committee which provides for the submission of a report on the effects of this provision on the book market; It will be an opportunity to verify the pursuit of the objective of the law and it will undoubtedly contribute to the quality of the law. It is urgent, as we all know, to restore a balance in this sector, as the growth of the American giant has been strong in the book market in recent years. We oppose the social and ecological model promoted by Amazon and we welcome initiatives in favour of local businesses and the book chain as a whole. Indeed, let's not forget, the book industry begins where authors imagine, create and work, it grows by the confidence of publishers – some of which are small, self-publishing and generate little profit. We regret, in this regard, that the hope generated by Mr. Bruno Racine's report is not followed by stronger measures on the part of the ministry in order to respond to the challenges of the other actors in the sector and to find answers to the great precariousness of the authors. I take advantage of the presence of the Minister to ask her about the Government's vision of how we could provide clear and massive support for the book sector – I think, for example, that La Poste's preferential tariff was restored a few years ago. There is an urgent need to bring together those involved in home delivery, booksellers, small publishers and the state, to enter into negotiations on the reduction of these postal costs and to avoid gnawing on the margins of the weakest. Local initiatives are numerous, such as that of the association " Chez mon libraire" which brings together nearly 170 independent bookstores in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes and allows you to book an online book. The State must encourage them, for example by supporting the development and accessibility of online shops for independent booksellers, including by grouping. In short, beyond this bill, concrete announcements are needed to further support the industry and ensure that the expected effects are real. You have announced some of these measures to us, Madam Minister; We will follow them with interest. The rest of the bill, which includes other measures concerning contractual relations between publishers and authors, the expansion of the tasks of the Book Ombudsman and the adaptation of legal deposit to digital works, fully satisfies us. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of this text. As Mrs Bannier has said, it is a bet that must be tried, and we will be on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u319	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u320	France enjoys an important cultural influence in the world and this is no coincidence. It is the fruit of the talent of our creators and the result of a public policy of which we are both the authors and the heirs. The book, a cultural object par excellence, has now received special attention from the public authorities for forty years. We are indeed a literary country. Books, like bookstores, are an integral part of our heritage and identity. This year we are celebrating the fortieth anniversary of the Lang law on the single book price. It is a law that has marked our history. It is the first milestone in the policy of State support for the book. The aim of the parliamentarians in 1981 was to protect the booksellers from unfair competition from the large areas which led them to a price war using books as a call product. The Lang law, whose legislative path was not a long, quiet river, finally achieved its objectives and allowed to rebalance the balance of power between downtown and large-scale bookstores. But the book economy today is characterized by new changes, and in particular by the development of e-commerce, whose market share has increased tenfold in twenty years. This evolution is not neutral because buying a book in a bookstore is an experience: we exchange with the bookseller, we go through the fourth cover and we usually come out with books that we had not planned to buy. It is not the same on the Internet: framed by the algorithm, online shopping leaves little room for chance of discovery. This phenomenon is quantifiable: at the end of 2019, L50_000 references of different works had been sold in France. During the second confinement, this figure was divided by three. It is therefore our cultural diversity that is at stake, and today it is our responsibility as legislators to defend it by supporting our local bookstores against the platforms. It is not a question of waging war on Amazon, because the different forms of trade are complementary. However, they must be exercised in the context of fair and balanced competition. This is the objective of the first article of this bill, which introduces a minimum tariff for shipping costs. Since 2014, the law prohibits free shipping of new books, but online sales sites have found the parade by charging delivery at a cent while it costs on average 6.80 euros to independent booksellers. It is therefore essential to combat this unfair practice, which is detrimental to bookstores. This bill also creates the possibility for municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation (EPCI) to grant grants to independent bookstores, to a certain extent. This is also a measure that is expected and justified in various respects. The one of creation first. Without the bookstores, there are no authors. In any case, there would be no emerging authors, because they need time to find an audience, where platforms generally recommend only best sellers identified on the basis of sales statistics. It is also a choice of society. Shops, first and foremost bookstores, have functions other than selling products: they are vectors of social bonding and animation of city centres. Article 3 aims to extend to all publishers certain provisions of the agreement signed in 2017 between the National Publishing Union and the Permanent Council of Writers. This is a major step forward for the authors. On the one hand, it will improve their information on the exploitation of their works in the event of a cessation of the publisher's activity and, on the other hand, it will facilitate the resumption of the author's rights by simplifying the conditions for the termination of contracts. This text also extends the possibility of referral to the Book Ombudsman. These proposals are the result of consultations between the professional representatives of the authors and those of the publishers and it is to be welcomed that the dialogue has worked in this field. Finally, this bill also provides answers that go beyond the book industry. Article 5 concerns the legal deposit of works. It enables the existing rules to be modernised in order to adapt them to changing digital practices. It is the result of consultations held in the Senate with the Bibliothèque nationale de France, the Centre national du cinéma and the Institut national de l'audiovisuel, which are currently blocked in their work of heritage conservation. We fully agree with this measure, which makes it possible to unlock a number of locks. In conclusion, on behalf of the Action Together Group, I would like to acknowledge the work of our colleague Senator Laure Darcos, whose commitment on this subject is well known to all. [[Ms Maud Petit and Ms Nicole Dubré-Chirat applaud]] As you will understand, we will vote in favour of this bill, which we fully support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u321	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u322	Like my colleague Béatrice Descamps, I am delighted that we can devote an afternoon to this so important theme of the book, of reading, and to all the actors that allow the French to read. We need to thank Senator Laure Darcos, on the initiative of this bill, and you, the minister, for giving us the opportunity to discuss this subject of the book, its place in our country, and especially its place in our society where digital is increasingly present. The book has always been of particular importance in France. It cannot be forgotten that the single price of the book worried more than one major sign at the time of its adoption and that today, as we celebrate the forty years of the Lang law, many countries such as Germany, Spain, Italy and Japan have also put this system in place. It is by voting laws like the one we are debating today that we send an important message: the book is a separate object; His trade cannot ignore its essential place for our humanity. Reading a book is a lonely experience that makes us feel much less alone. Abraham Lincoln rightly said that "the books give us the opportunity to discover that our original ideas were not so much." Rich in all the diversity of Man, the book can be as much memory of our history and our collective consciousness as entertainment and escape. In short, it is often a moment out of time that gives meaning to our lives. The French are not mistaken! For a long time hegemonic in the communication of ideas and stories, the book resisted the emergence of television and the explosion of the Internet. More generally, it resists the omnipresence of screens, while several generations have grown with them. I am sure that Monday, October 4th, when several social networks were missing, many of our fellow citizens took the opportunity to get back into a good book. This French love for books was heard during the confinement in November 2021, when thousands of them offended to see bookstores appear on the list of non-essential shops. This reaction of our fellow citizens is the best proof that the interventions of the legislator to leave a separate place for bookstores in the book market are strongly supported. The bookstore is this place from which you're never disappointed to leave with more than what you'd come for. But if the single price has been able to protect them from general stores, the advent of internet sales forces us to act even more firmly because the financial health of digital giants like Amazon is not only based on the sale of books and they can often afford to be in deficit with derisory delivery costs. Thus the initiative of this bill to introduce a minimum delivery rate for the dispatch of books is to be welcomed, as is the obligation to make a clear distinction between new and second-hand books. The law of 8 July 2014 had already correctly identified the problems of unfair competition posed by the large digital platforms, but the arsenal adopted was not enough in front of actors who are not blushing to offer delivery at a cent. I also welcome the help that can be provided by communities to help independent bookstores. These 3000 small businesses are the best illustration of the French's attachment to a culture of proximity and to exchange and discovery. I will not dwell on the last articles which I consider to be consensual and which have been the subject of useful clarification in committee. We can only welcome the more protective measures in article 3 with regard to authors whose situation is often precarious. Madam rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your work. As you understand, the independent IDU group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u323	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u324	The arm of iron with the giants of the book sector does not date from yesterday. In 1981 the so-called Lang Act was intended to make the book something other than a commodity and to refuse to apply the European principle of free and undistorted competition to it. It has helped to protect the independent bookstore and small publishers. Since the adoption of this law, the price of the book has been fixed by the publisher and the bookseller cannot apply a discount of more than 5%. In addition, books can only be sold two years after publication. To achieve this, the battle was difficult: Leclerc and the Fnac had insurgently and some felt that it was impossible to compel these large companies. Yet we have managed to do so. A few years later, the emergence of online sales sites, in particular Amazon, broke down the cards. Independent bookstores were at risk, particularly as a result of certain practices relating to shipping costs. This is why, in 2014, an anti-Amazon law prohibited online sales sites from cumulating the free shipping charge with the 5% discount on the book price. Four years later, in April 2018, we, together with my colleague Yannick Kerlogot, issued a report on the evaluation of this law. Our joint work has highlighted the ineffective aspects of the law prohibiting free shipping. Indeed, large platforms such as Fnac or Amazon have, from the day after the publication of the law, invoiced their shipping costs to a cent of euro. This derisory amount has aggravated the distortion of competition between large platforms and retailers. That is why the will to fight against circumvention of the 2014 law is a good thing. You propose to restore a balance between independent bookstores and e-commerce players such as Fnac and above all Amazon. By legislating on the delivery rate and allowing municipalities to pay subsidies to small and medium-sized bookstores, the scheme therefore proposes to make buyers pay more and to rely on the financial support of the local authorities. We consider that a more direct attack on the Amazon model would have been more timely. It should be remembered that this company destroys many more jobs than it creates, contributes to the artificialisation of the land and is a champion in CO emissions. We regret that the bill did not provide an opportunity to tax Amazon's exceptional profits during the crisis, to reform e-commerce taxation, to fight VAT fraud and circumvention, to prohibit or limit the construction of e-commerce warehouses, etc. However, the proposals I have just made are supported by many trade unions and associations. Some have already been amended in the context of the review of the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects, all of which have been met by the majority. Another gap in the bill intended to strengthen fairness and trust among all actors in the book industry is that it does not provide for any mechanism to guarantee our creators decent living conditions. While half of them earn less than SMIC, we have made proposals in this direction. We have not been able to debate this because our amendments have been deemed inadmissible. We want, for example, to set up a fund to support artistic creation in the fields of visual, graphic and visual arts, cinematographic, audiovisual and photographic arts, literature and illustration. This mechanism – I cannot detail it here, but I invite you to refer to my proposed law on the subject – aims to give artists-authors a real social status. The subsidies obtained through this measure would enable them to develop their artistic activity and no longer be forced to engage in so-called food trades in parallel with their creation. We have not been able to debate it. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] Colleagues, we share the desire to restore the conditions for fair competition between booksellers and online platforms. We are in favour of the provisions aimed at strengthening the single price of the book, we share the fight against free shipping, which artificially multiplies online orders while we prefer that readers buy locally from our booksellers who, in the spirit of the so-called Lang law, are true messengers of culture. I have also received contributions from bookstores from my department, Majuscule in Foix and Le Bleu du Ciel in Pamiers, who are in favour of this scheme. For all these reasons, and as in committee, throughout the debate, we will propose amendments aimed at filling the structural deficit in your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u325	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Culture has a few points to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u326	[[Mr Jean-MarcZulesiapplaudit]] Rather, I would like to add additional elements and respond to the recurring case that we would consider booksellers and bookstores to be non-essential. Of course, that is not the case. The essential term refers to the administrative definition of subsistence businesses. Nothing in our philosophy suggests that we would consider the book and bookstores to be non-essential. I would also like to recall certain facts. During the first confinement, it was the booksellers themselves and the organizations representing them who requested that bookstores be included in the list of shops subject to the obligation to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u327	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u328	I want to remind you, because some words are starting to warm my ears! Thirdly, thanks to massive sectoral and cross-sectoral support, the network of independent booksellers is the cultural sector that suffered the least from the crisis. I would point out that the drop in the turnover of booksellers in 2020 is less than 3% and it is our aid that has enabled this sector to virtually not suffer from the crisis. So we have to stop using figures that are completely wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u329	We must salute their resilience!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u330	Finally, the generalisation of the pass culture is a boon for bookstores, since books account for 50% of purchases made with the pass culture; So they benefit from it. But you can't buy books on Amazon with the pass culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u332	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This sector is thus heavily assisted. I would like to make a point on the progress of the work we are doing in favour of the artists-authors since the question has been asked. Some measures have come into force, such as emergency economic support for the authors, which was continued in 2021. We paid EUR 245 million to the authors of the Solidarity Fund between March 2020 and August 2021. Two burden-free measures for the years 2020 and 2021 reinforced direct aid for an amount now estimated at EUR 100 million. The authors' access to their social rights has been improved by the treatment of malfunctions related to transfers of social security contributions to the USSRAF of Limousin. Taking into account the diversity of the main and ancillary income of the artists-authors was enshrined in the publication of 28 August 2020 and, on the basis of the nomenclature developed, an annual statistical observatory will be set up to allow for better follow-up of the authors within the Ministry. In addition, we are implementing eleven measures, which I am detailing. In order to give the organisations representing the authors the control of the management body of their social security schemes, they will be allocated 16 out of 24 seats on the board of directors of that body. A representativeness survey has been launched and a notice has been published on the timing and format of applications. The creation of an online information portal for artists-authors gathering all the useful information of a legal, fiscal, social and professional nature is the subject of a consultation which began in early July. A budget envelope dedicated to this issue was set aside by me in the budget for 2022, in order to complete this ambitious project of services and advice to the authors. The clarification and simplification of the tax rules applicable to the income collected by the authors have been the subject of several consultation meetings, and these are now the subject of exchanges between the Ministry of Culture and the Directorate of Tax Law. In this way, we will simplify the rules applicable to authors when they fall under several regimes. Sectoral negotiations to balance the power relations between authors' organisations and organisations representing the companies involved in the distribution and exploitation of works began in the first half of 2021 – for the book sector, of course, under the aegis of a qualified personality. Other sectoral measures, in particular the testing of remuneration for comics authors, continue to be the subject of work in order to bring them into force in the first half of 2022. My firm and I have been particularly active in monitoring the implementation of this ambitious plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of the 20 proposals of Bruno Racine's report, "The Author and the Act of Creation", fifteen are already being implemented or about to be implemented. So I'd like the recurrent trial that I'm being held here or there to stop. I would point out that if measures have not entered into force, it is because they are the subject of very strong controversy between the representatives of the various authors; It is very difficult for everyone to agree on the differences of philosophy that exist between those in the Labour Code and those in favour of the defence of intellectual property. In general, these controversies are irreconcilable. However, on all the issues that are the subject of agreement and even consensus, not only have we made progress, but we have solved a number of problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u333	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u334	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u335	I mean all the good that I think of Article 1e r in particular, and of the law in general, because of course we are all very attached to the book. This article is necessary and highly desirable; It has been expected for a very long time by booksellers and independent bookstores. Introducing shipping charges on book shipments is essential to restore fair and fair competition between the independents and the Amazon platform; The law is now being circumvented and it needs to be rectified. It is also essential to support local jobs. On an equal basis, independent bookstores represent an economic activity that creates twice as many jobs as large cultural areas and 18 times more than the online sales sector. [[Mr. Fabrice Brun applauds]] Finally, it is essential because independent bookstores, real local shops, participate in the social life and cultural animation of our territories. It is they who ensure the spread of culture to our medium-sized cities, but also to rural areas. As such, we must give them the means to continue to exist, and it is in the interest of section 1 that I will be very pleased to vote, as is the whole bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u336	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u337	I like books,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u338	And the booksellers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u339	... as many here I suppose, I like to touch them, I like to feel them, I like to leaf them out, I want to make sure that this object – which, fortunately, still remains in its material form – is that of all our passions. As I see it, I like independent bookstores where we not only find a variety of what literature can offer us, but also where we have an absolutely unique relationship to the book. I wanted to do this because I received an email from Folies d'ink bookstore in Saint-Ouen, as perhaps others received one from their own bookstore. Don't think I'm quoting it in the name of I don't know what lobby or interest; I buy my books in this bookshop which, moreover, is the only one of this type in Saint-Ouen. This very important e-mail directed us to vote on this bill – I think it will be passed by a large majority – but it also outlined some of the problems faced by the booksellers. In particular, there was a question of shipping costs: while they cost only one cent of euros per shipment to platforms such as Amazon, independent bookstores pay them 5 or 6 euros; So they can't resist. It is precisely because the bill intends to introduce minimum shipping charges, fixed by decree, which will apply to the shipment of books, including in the context of loyalty programs, that it is approved by the booksellers. That is also why I support her. However, it seems to us that it was possible to proceed differently; For example, it would have been preferable to retain the proposal made in the report drawn up by Yannick Kerlogot and my comrade and colleague Michel Larive, which proposed the introduction of a "book rate" and compensation by the State for the losses incurred for La Poste. I know that an amendment has been tabled to request a report on this device; I believe that we should adopt it or, failing that, reform e-commerce taxation. Even if we are only in the middle of the ford, the ford in question is interesting and useful; I will therefore support Article 1 and the reform it is undertaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u340	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u341	Allow me, in turn, to acknowledge the excellent work done by Senator Laure Darcos. We thus show that we are able to work hand in hand with the upper chamber, on such an essential subject. At the same time, I will present Amendments Nos 17 and 14: we all agree that it is essential to introduce a minimum price for the dispatch of new books, but I propose to extend this measure to all paper, including used books.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u343	You rightly ask the question of extending the minimum tariff to any cultural paper, new as well as used. However, I find it difficult to apply the law on the single price of books and the provision provided for in article 1, paragraph 2, which provides for the introduction of a minimum rate of shipping costs, to works which are not currently subject to the single price of books. This is the case, in particular, with music scores – the selling price of which cannot be unique – but also with the used market, which it seems difficult to regulate in this way, since those involved are mostly non-professional sellers. In order to elaborate on the legal explanation, I would add that the Council of State has adopted the theory of accessory to justify the conformity of the measure with European Union law. A minimum delivery rate is the accessory to the single price, which makes the exception to free pricing acceptable. Since it is no longer the accessory of nothing, its conformity with European Union law becomes difficult to establish – one cannot be established without the other. Moreover, such a measure would endanger the very conformity of our single price legislation with the Constitution and European Union law. The single price is only possible because it is limited in time; If it becomes perpetual, it may no longer be considered an acceptable breach of price freedom. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u345	The rapporteur's argument is excellent; I agree, and I ask for the amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u346	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u347	In view of the arguments put forward, I withdraw my two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u348	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u349	It is intended to prevent possible circumvention of the provisions laid down in Article 1. During the debate in the Senate, it was made clear that the minimum amount would apply to any delivery and that it would not be possible to dispense with it, "whether directly or indirectly." But some practices in this area are already well known and ask questions. We referred earlier to mixed baskets, i.e. orders containing both books and other products, but here I would like to draw your attention to the loyalty and subscription systems that guarantee free deliveries to those who subscribe to them. What will happen in the future with regard to the application of the minimum amount for subscriptions already subscribed and which have promised such a free subscription? Madam rapporteur, Madam Minister, could you provide us with any answers as to how the ban on free, even "indirect", provided for in the text must be understood and applied?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u351	Thank you, Mrs Calvez, for raising a subject which has been the subject of lengthy debates, particularly during the hearings we have conducted. It is clear, of course, that it is possible to bypass the device – mixed baskets, loyalty offers, subscriptions. The introduction of your amendment is an opportunity to recall that, by adding the words "directly or indirectly" through the Senate, the text now clearly prohibits the free offer that could be made in the context of loyalty offers, subscriptions or any possible circumvention. We could draw up a kind of list to the Prévert of all possible circumventions, but the law seems to me to be more effective written so, in a concise way, and the intention of the legislator is very clear on this subject. I think that is also what the minister will be reminding us of. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u352	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u353	Similarly, request for withdrawal. As the rapporteur has just said, the phrase "whether directly or indirectly" prevents all circumvention systems – subscription or loyalty – and it also covers mixed baskets and any other business practice not identified to date. It is sufficient that a large order contains only one pound for the shipping pricing system to apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u354	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u355	If I may, I shall present Amendments Nos 12 and 13 at the same time. Madam Minister, the rapporteur, we will never stress enough the essential role that bookstores play in the transmission of culture, but also in the vitality of our city centres. The 3,300 French bookstores, which employ more than 13,000 employees, have on average a margin of only 1% of their turnover; It is the weakest of all the retail businesses that exist in our country. Their number of employees is declining and they are facing increasing and unfair competition. It is the very purpose of this bill to rebalance things. The two amendments – the second being a fallback amendment – are aimed at the discounts currently available to our libraries, almost automatically. This gives rise to a bit of a rock: there are sometimes municipalities that support bookstores by subsidising them, while it would be enough for them to buy the books at the right price. However, municipalities should be considered differently according to their size; We could thus preserve our rural communes from the measure by introducing a threshold of 1500 or, failing that, of 3500 inhabitants – as provided for in the withdrawal amendment – so that it applies. How can we justify for example that the city hall of Paris, the metropolis of Lyon or other very large agglomerations do not pay the book at the same price as all citizens but subsidize the bookstores, of which we keep saying how essential they are to the life of our communes? It is therefore good to strengthen the book economy – I repeat here the title of the bill – and the vitality of this essential trade – we have all recalled – which achieves only 1% of the margin – I repeat, 1%, it must be measured – that we should adopt this amendment of justice, which should allow for fair competition and very effective and immediate support for our booksellers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u357	You propose that the discount of 9% of the price of the book be prohibited for legal persons located in the territory of small communes. I understand your approach and can only agree with it – a reflection could be initiated on this discount – but the mechanism you are proposing does not seem to me to achieve the laudable objective you are aiming at. Indeed, such a solution seems to pose a significant constitutional risk, as it is difficult to justify such a difference in treatment on the basis of the sole geographical location of the legal person purchasing the books. The geographical location of a works council or university is unfortunately unrelated to the identity of the retailer with whom they can enter into a contract. Even more embarrassing, the adoption of your amendment, as drafted, would prompt them to enter into contracts with retailers located in larger municipalities, who will be able to offer them the tariff reduction in question. I therefore share your objective, but it seems to me that your amendment does not allow us to respond to it. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u359	I will speak about these two amendments and ask Aurore Bergé to withdraw them, but I would like to take some time to explain my position. First of all, I would like to point out that the ceiling of 9% of the rebate that can be granted to local authorities was introduced into the law in 2003. Prior to that date, the rebate was not capped and the companies that supplied communities were engaged in a fierce fight among themselves. The objective of such a cap was and remains to allow a wide variety of businesses to find their place in the market for book sales to communities. I also note that booksellers continue to respond to library markets; This is proof that they still consider this part of their business to be profitable, and therefore that the objective of the 2003 Act is achieved. There is therefore no need to change this parameter. Your proposal, honourable Member, is to change the 9% discount, not to guarantee the diversity of operators in community procurement, but to improve the overall profitability of bookstores. I am unfavourable for two reasons. First, such a measure would have the effect – as has been said – of increasing the cost of acquiring books for libraries in local and regional authorities, which would be a 180-degree shift from the spirit of the text that we are about to adopt. It seems to me that tensions on the budgets of the communities should encourage caution: we see year after year that the appropriations allocated to the budget for the acquisition of libraries are not on the increase, which is why I have introduced a specific €10 million aid over two years in the recovery plan to help communities renew their collections of printed books. Secondly, the measure would lead to the budget of local authorities being punctuated. It is true that if booksellers could sell their books more expensive to libraries, their profitability would be improved. But bookstores are not the only companies that sell books to libraries! The profitability of wholesalers and specialised operators, who do not face the same difficulties at all, would also be improved. Such a measure does not seem to me to be optimal in view of the requirement for the proper use of public funds. Finally, it seems to me that Article 2 of the draft law, which allows municipalities and their groups to support bookstores in their territory, is an appropriate tool to target book retailers who need it most. For all these reasons, I request the withdrawal of your two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u360	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u361	I hear your arguments but – I'm sorry – I'm going to maintain them. I will mention two figures: for a municipality with more than 100,000 inhabitants, this would represent an additional expenditure of 25,000 euros per year; and for a municipality with between 2000 and 5000 inhabitants, the measure would cost 772 euros per year. In truth, I find it difficult to understand how one can both say how essential bookstores are, which also means improving their profitability – how can a trade survive when its margin rate is around 1%, if not precisely by public money subsidy logics that are not always very effective or sustainable? – and at the same time not to buy their books at the right price? Again, I hear your arguments, but for me it is a matter of principle: helping the booksellers also means making sure that everyone buys at the right price, with the exception of communes with less than 3500 inhabitants – exempted by my amendment – that is, our rural communes. This is a compromise that I think is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u362	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u363	It aims to apply the minimum price provided for in the article to the dispatch of self-published books, a phenomenon which has developed in recent years. It seems to me normal that self-publishing is also concerned with the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u364	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u365	Self-publishing is already affected by the single price of the book. It will therefore also be done under article 1, paragraph 2. Your request is therefore fully satisfied. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u367	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u368	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u369	I was referring to the minimum shipping price. However, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u370	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u371	I had tabled an amendment on this article which was declared inadmissible on the pretext that it created an office, even though I had managed it – but these are the mysteries of the Committee on Finance and the application of Article 40 of the Constitution... The purpose of this amendment was to extend the scheme allowing municipalities or EPCIs to award grants, applying it not only to bookstores that market new books, but also to those that sell used books. Used bookstores are part of our heritage. It seems to me that they should be protected and that they should not be closed to the benefit of a few digital platforms. I am thinking in particular of the splendid bookshop of Somail, in the Aude, located on the edge of the Canal du Midi: those who have the pleasure of frequenting it have no doubt that it is an integral part of our cultural heritage. She also promotes books on Occitan culture – but not only. I find it a pity that the local authorities who wish to do so cannot protect these bookstores and help them. This is the subject of my speech, since I cannot defend my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u372	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 23 of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u373	This amendment of coordination with Article L. 2121-24 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities aims to make the deliberations on new aids to bookstores subject to the obligation to publish locally which applies to economic interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u374	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No 6 on the additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u375	We hope that the State, local and regional authorities, educational, vocational or research institutions, representative trade unions or works councils, as well as public libraries, will take into account, when acquiring new books, the need to maintain in the territory a dense network of retailers, particularly independent ones, which guarantees the diversity of editorial creation and the widest possible access to this creation. On the one hand, on Sunday, November 1, 2020, when all the bookstores, deemed "non-essential" by the Government, closed, the Prime Minister called on the French to delay their purchases "rather than to order products via the Internet on a large foreign site". The bookstores benefited for two months from the reimbursement of their shipping costs, which led to an increase in orders. However, the defence policy of independent bookstores cannot be limited to the advice of the Prime Minister or to an ad hoc support measure. On the other hand, Article 2 of the draft law opens up the possibility for municipalities and groups of municipalities to award subsidies to bookstores. However, measures of this kind have an imbalance between territories: some municipalities will have sufficient resources to subsidise bookstores in the city, while others will not have the possibility. We are thinking, for example, of the rural communes which, for lack of resources, are already struggling to maintain a school in their territory. We therefore propose to go further in supporting local bookstores by adopting a measure incorporating the provisions laid down in Article R. 2122-9 of the Public Order Code, which covers only supplies of non-school books whose estimated value is less than 90000 euros without taxes. We propose to extend these provisions to all public procurement related to the purchase of non-school books, so that they take into account the need to maintain a dense network of retailers, including independent retailers, in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u376	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u377	You wish to submit the public order to the imperative of maintaining a dense network of retailers. As I said in committee, I am quite sensitive to this idea, which an article in the regulatory part of the Code of Public Order already defends. However, the device you are proposing seems too vague to go under the radars of European public order law. It could run counter to the rule laid down by the Public Order Code, which requires the selection of the most economically advantageous tender on the basis of objective criteria in relation to the subject-matter of the contract. You intend to make public procurement a tool of public policy at the service of independent bookstores. I share this will, but your amendment lacks precision: what do you mean when you propose that buyers "take into account" the need to maintain a dense network of retailers? How to quantify the priority that would be given to independent bookstores? Your amendment does not specify that. It therefore seems to me to be a legal problem, both in terms of constitutionality – in terms of normativity and the exercise of legislative competence – and in terms of European law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u378	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u379	To complement the rapporteur's excellent argument, which I agree with, I am fully aware that public procurement for non-school books can be a real opportunity for local bookstores. It is in this spirit that I asked my departments to come closer to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, in order to consider raising the threshold of €90000 tax-free, to allow bookstores to access more public procurement. This is a regulatory decision, but I'm working on it. For these reasons, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u380	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u381	[[Smile]] I am very pleased that you are sensitive about me, but less pleased that you are opposed to the adoption of the resulting amendment! Madam rapporteur, you explain that my amendment is too vague to go under the radars of Community legislation. But that is precisely the point: I believe that by further clarifying the wording, we would not be in the nails. The argument you are referring to is exactly why I drafted the amendment in this way, for fear of being subjected to European censorship! With regard to public procurement, the Government has nevertheless promoted this leverage for all sectors of activity as part of its stimulus plan. Why could we not use it in the book sector and, more broadly, in the cultural sector? In this and other areas, it seems to me that, as Bruno Le Maire, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have pointed out, public procurement should contribute to the revival of our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u382	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u383	A few days ago, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) highlighted France's marked progress from 2017 to the world's innovation ranking. This is clear evidence that our intellectual property policy is bearing fruit: protecting and valuing our inventions, innovations and creations is imperative. Article 3 of the proposed law will make it possible to modernise contractual relations between publishers and authors, giving them greater means to monitor the performance of contracts and obtain a better knowledge of their remuneration and the state of the exploitation of their work. These provisions, by further protecting the authors, will counter what some call the end of the paper book. The printed works remain indispensable for the development of cultural places of proximity, which participate in the animation of municipalities and neighbourhoods. I also welcome the extension of these provisions to all professionals in the music sector provided for in this article. This agreement is the result of the active efforts of the Ministry of Culture – of which we thank you, Madam Minister – which facilitated discussions between organizations representing publishers and songwriters. In line with the creation of the National Music Centre (NMC), which we voted for, we continue to support musical creation. You will have understood this: with this text, especially with this article, we are expanding the rich legislative arsenal deployed since the beginning of the mandate to protect the richness of our culture and strengthen its dissemination. We take our responsibilities to protect authors and artists. I salute the many authors and composers who live in my constituency and who have often been precarised by the health crisis, despite the scale of the support measures taken during this period. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Continued efforts to support artistic employment in all its forms in all territories and to consolidate cultural strategic channels are essential. You are acting forcefully in this direction, Madam Minister. This article is therefore a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u384	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 24 and 25 as corrected by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u385	Amendment No 24 is an editorial amendment. It is simply a question of moving the subparagraphs within Article 3, in order to create, in the Intellectual Property Code, an article dedicated to the framework of intertitle compensation, instead of supplementing Article L. 132-17-3 of the same Code relating to accountability, which has no connection with such compensation. Amendment No 25, as corrected, is intended, for legal reasons, to move the provisions of 2° provided for in paragraphs 8 to 11, thereby creating a 3° bis after paragraph 15. The new Article L. 132-17-4-1 should also be supplemented by a paragraph explicitly stating that the compulsory agreement lays down the conditions for the application of the return provision over time. This addition is important: it will be possible to apply these provisions only to current contracts, which will prevent publishers from having to review all of their contracts, while reporting will indicate the rate and base of the provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u386	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u387	He's in favor. I particularly thank the rapporteur for Amendment No 25, which brings a real improvement to the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u388	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No 5 on the additional Rule after Rule 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u389	The purpose of this amendment is to request a report to assess the desirability of creating a specific preferential tariff for the sending of books by independent bookstores, in order to avoid the possibility that the proposed measure would incur the inadmissibility that might result from the application of Article 40 of the Constitution. This request was made by the booksellers. The information report on the evaluation of the law of 8 July 2014 regulating the conditions of distance selling of books and enabling the Government to amend by order the provisions of the intellectual property code relating to the publishing contract, presented by my colleague Kerlogot and myself, recommends in fact to explore the possibility of creating a book price whose losses for La Poste would be compensated by the State. On this occasion, we noted that this option "would be more virtuous than the current situation of compensating the structural fragility of the sector with public aid", which, as I pointed out, are quite random and sometimes discriminatory. It is the choice made in this bill in Article 2 that provides for new subsidies for independent bookstores. Germany has made such a provision. In February 2017, the Association of Publishers of the Hauts-de-France compared the shipping costs between our two countries: for the same book, shipping costs €7.50 in France while the fixed German price was only €1.65. However, Amazon and Fnac, thanks to the agreements they negotiate, offer deliveries at a cent euro. Very few physical bookstores have been able to obtain such rates. The Syndicat de la Libraire Française (SLF) estimates that sending a book costs an average of 6.50 euros to a bookseller. The requested report will be required to provide a comprehensive study of the costs and savings expected in order to assess the potential impact of such a measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u390	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u391	You are requesting a report on the introduction of a preferential postal tariff. It is true that such a measure may seem to be an optimal solution. But, as we can see with the prices applicable to the press, it would be accompanied by a number of problems, including the necessary compensation by the State for the loss of profits of the operator responsible for this mission – a matter far from being minor – not to mention the acceptance by the European authorities of the creation of a new public service mission. It would probably be preferable for the sector to be able to organise itself in order to obtain more attractive tariffs from carriers and, for this reason, for the sector to be able to offer larger volumes and to absorb part of the operators' costs. These reflections must be carried out in parallel with the adoption of the bill. Lowering the costs to booksellers is an imperative, complementary to the introduction of a minimum tariff. We may eventually be able to dispense with a minimum delivery rate, but we are not there. This request for a report receives an unfavorable opinion, as is often the case with this type of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u392	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u393	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u394	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u395	I do not understand why requests for reports should, as a matter of principle, be rejected. Where does the idea come from that it would not be desirable to allow reports? I remind you that our task as a parliamentarian is not only to make the law, but also to control the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u396	Your group is well served in terms of reporting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u397	Then you tell us about negotiations that the booksellers could engage with La Poste. But you drafted this bill because you saw that the market did not regulate itself, that there was a distortion of competition due to shipping costs and that Amazon was introducing unfair competition with its shipping costs at a cent euro. You can see that the market can't solve everything. That's what we mean. Furthermore, we are not imposing anything, we are simply asking for a report on whether our proposal is consistent. You have just said that it was, but as a matter of principle, you are refusing this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u398	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u399	I do not always agree completely with my colleague, but in this case I am. On the one hand, it is a bit of a pity that "report" has become a bad word. By producing a report, we give more information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u400	Besides, Mr. Larive has committed a few!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u401	On the other hand, the idea of considering the sale of books as a public service mission seems really interesting to me. A specific postal tariff should be set, adapted to bookstores who really need it and whose volumes of books are not large enough to allow them to participate in negotiations – because it is obvious that some would have no interest in it. The idea that the State compensates for the losses for a tariff that would be negotiated upstream seems very interesting to me and I fully support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u402	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u403	First of all, you want to control the Government by means of a report that you ask the same Government. I'm having a hard time following you. If you want to take up this work in the House, it is quite possible and it would be perfectly in line with your task of monitoring and proposing. You are referring to the possibility of introducing a preferential postal tariff, i.e. an additional expenditure for the State, which may be agreed. This is the measure that we have put in place for two months,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u404	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u405	... when the bookstores were in a situation that is not today's. Restoring fair competition between book retailers should not leverage public spending. Such an expenditure would obviously be necessary in the event of a preferential tariff. On the other hand, we are well aware that the compensations for public service tasks are generally not up to the actual costs of the operators responsible for them – in this case La Poste – and this tends to weaken them. A report is therefore not necessary. This is a political choice: do we decide whether or not to charge public expenditure? Of course, it is understandable that the booksellers could find an advantage there – I fully agree – but a report would be of no use to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u406	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and Les Républicaines groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u407	Madam rapporteur, I would like to know – even if, according to the answer you have just given to Mr Larive, I already have a little idea – whether it would be possible to obtain a report assessing the desirability of raising the thresholds for exemption from advertising and prior competition for purchases of non-school books. A few months ago, in an oral question-and-answer session without debate, you told me that you were in favour of such a measure, which would facilitate the purchase of books from local bookstores by local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u408	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u409	The opinion is the same as for the previous amendment. In addition, you are seeking a report on an issue that falls under regulatory authority, which poses a problem with form.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u411	Our discussions with Bercy are ongoing, they have not yet been concluded. I will of course come back to you as soon as this delicate negotiation is concluded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u412	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u413	I understand that this negotiation is delicate, but the situation of local booksellers is equally so after this unprecedented crisis. It is not normal that they do not have access to the public order for the purchase of books by the communities and that large groups and operators such as Amazon benefit from it in their place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u414	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u415	We come to the conclusion of the study of a text which has been the subject of a consensus on all its measures. We have talked a lot about the introduction of a minimum amount of delivery costs for books, but we should not forget that this bill will strengthen relations between publishers and authors, facilitate the payment of subsidies by the municipalities to the booksellers who contribute to the attractiveness and vitality of the territories, and will simplify the digital legal deposit and the referral of the book mediator. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The fate of this text is in our hands. I hope that we will vote unanimously and encourage all the booksellers to do so. The aim of this bill is to reduce the distortions of competition faced by booksellers, which is why they are asking us to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u416	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u417	This bill is a first step, which we can welcome. It is part of a historic arm that started with the Fnac and Leclerc and continues today with Amazon. However, with this text, you finally propose, to fight against Amazon, that buyers pay more and that local authorities subsidize independent bookstores. The State is therefore defeated by local and regional authorities, as is often the case in this House and with this government. And there is no problem with unfair competition! On the other hand, if the state were asked to intervene, we would be told that we should be careful because Europe could tap our fingers – which I could reply to: what then? Fortunately, the local authorities are here! Your idea is not to raise taxes, but to ask local authorities to do so – we understand that. We believe that it would have been possible to do otherwise, for example by taxing exceptional profits accumulated during the crisis, reforming taxation on e-commerce, combating VAT and tax fraud and prohibiting or limiting the construction of e-commerce warehouses. Finally, Madam Minister, you said that you made efforts during the crisis. But can we really claim to strengthen equity and trust between the players in the economy when there is no proposal to ensure that the authors are able to live decently of their work in the long term and not only during times of crisis? Half of the authors earn less than SMIC. That is how it has been for ages, and I hope it will not continue. Creators are less well paid than broadcasters. However, this bill does not really have the ambition to restore a more equitable relationship between the various actors. We will vote on this bill, which is a step forward since it is intended to regulate the rates for shipping costs. However, it is incomplete, and I hope that others – we, for example – will be able to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u418	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u419	As we have told you, the Republican Group strongly supports this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u420	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u421	...whose Senator Laure Darcos, whom I greet and thank, is at the origin. First of all, it helps to fight unfair competition between Internet giants, notably Amazon, and our independent booksellers. On the other hand, a delivery involving additional wages and carbon transport cannot be free of charge. It must have an economic and environmental cost. Delivery to a point of sale, such as a bookshop or a large area with a bookshop, will remain free of charge. Finally, contrary to the assertions of some platforms, it is not the French in rural areas who make the most use of delivery and thus lose out. They mainly focus on bookstores and large areas. This bill will therefore not be in their disfavor. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We hope that all Members will vote for the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u422	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u423	As we have seen during the health crisis, the book still occupies a central place in our society. Yet, as we said in our debates, the book industry faces many difficulties in maintaining the market. That is why I am pleased that we are adopting today the bill to improve the book economy and to strengthen equity between its actors, as it includes many advances. Through Article 1, which allows the establishment of a minimum delivery rate for the sale of books by distance, we act the creation of a new system in Europe and around the world. Indeed, while bookstores are no longer able to offer delivery rates as competitive as those practised by digital giants, like Amazon, the measure we have just voted on will make it possible to force them to set higher transport costs to ensure that bookstores are truly competitive. By minimizing the capacity gap between these major platforms and our bookstores, we are now accompanying players in our territories by limiting the distortion of competition as much as possible. On the basis of this will, however, our group wished to reiterate that caution should be exercised in the implementation of this measure. That is why I am pleased that the amendment tabled by my group, which provides for the submission of a government report on the effect of this system on the book market, the retailers' network and public access to the purchase of books, has been adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u424	Here! A report...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u425	Similarly, I would like to reiterate our full support for Article 2, which, by allowing grants for independent bookstores, reaffirms our support for these institutions and their actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to thank our colleague Géraldine Bannier for her work on this text as rapporteur. We all know here his commitment to reading and the book industry, a commitment that she has fully honoured in the examination of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u426	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u427	As we have already said, we will of course vote for this text. This bill is also a form of bet, as we have heard a few concerns, less from booksellers than from some publishers. It will therefore be necessary to exercise great caution. It is important that a report be able to assess the situation in some time. We will have to pay attention to it. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is the whole book chain that is strongly affected. Therefore, if the minister has announced several measures, we must continue to work on the entire book chain, with all its actors, first the authors – we agree with the comments made on this subject earlier – then the publishers, finally the broadcasters. Our support for the book chain must be constant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u428	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u429	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 58 Number of votes cast 58 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 58 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1003.u430	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for a law to protect farmers' remuneration. The meeting is adjourned.
