ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of Mrs Nicole Sanquer's bill and several of her colleagues introducing various provisions relating to officials and military personnel from overseas (No 4694, 4554).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u3	The examination of our colleague Nicole Sanquer's proposal for a law comes at a time when expensive living in the overseas departments is again at the heart of the current situation. As it applies to State officials and military personnel in these regions, this apparently technical text provides an opportunity to measure the decisions that undermine the purchasing power of our compatriots, as it sheds light on the loss of confidence in public speaking when the State is not meeting its commitments. Article 1 on Temporary Retirement Allowance (ITR) illustrates these two aspects perfectly. The dry removal of the scheme will lead to an increase in precariousness among the pensioners concerned, who, it should be recalled, are most often in categories B and C. On the other hand, the Government's commitment, during the 2008 reform, to create, instead of the ITR, a fair and financially balanced compensation system is not respected and was quickly defeated on the grounds that the reform was already fair. That it was necessary to put an end to abuses, of course, no one disputes it. But using this first step, carried out with the help of all to justify the abandonment of the promised compensatory system, is a deception. How could the price differentials, which can be as high as 30-60%, and the poverty rates found – the most important in France – be so obscured to reach such a conclusion? Article 1 is intended only to remind the State of the commitment made to the national representation thirteen years ago and to invite it, as a matter of urgency, to set up, in a concerted manner, a replacement mechanism. None of the civil servants from overseas posts in Hexagon is indifferent to Article 2 as the Centre for Material and Moral Interests (CIMM) conditions the benefit of the main measures to which they are entitled. It is a pivotal mechanism on which, for example, enhanced leave and, above all, assignment opportunities in its region of origin depend. Every year, overseas parliamentarians measure the impact of this system on the existence of their compatriots when they are forced, especially after having passed a competition, to work and live thousands of kilometres from their spouses and children. There is therefore a real gap between the incidence of ICES and the free interpretation left to each administration to apply it, which causes inequalities of treatment and great misunderstandings. Since all attempts at harmonization have been unsuccessful, we can only welcome the desire for coherence reflected in Article 2, which provides that this essential system, which generates rights, is applied according to precise and fair rules. Article 3 is intended to put an end to unequal treatment between overseas personnel, since it is a matter of finally extending to members from the Pacific or Mayotte the benefit of the Ultramarine Military Installation Allowance (INSMET). While the principle of such an extension was unanimously shared, the modus operandi that the Government had recently announced was more than questionable. It is no more or less a matter of asking these men and women, engaged in the service of France, to settle this issue among themselves. The equality between the ultramarine military deserves much better than this zero-sum operation. My colleague Karine Lebon wishes, in this debate, to draw the Government's attention to another issue in which the principle of equality is also being undermined. This is the legislation on campaign profits, which is not attributed to all those who might claim it. This 1924 arrangement, which consists of doubling military retirement years for periods of overseas service, does not apply to certain ultramarine gendarmes, although they are entitled to do so. Neither the decree of 3 November 2011 nor the decision of the Council of State of 12 February 2020 made it possible to remedy this situation. The argument of the decree of foreclosure is now opposed to them. You understand that we are trying to question the Government in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups. – Mrs Nicole Sanquer, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, also applauds]] In addition to the necessary adjustments, the GDR Group will give its full support to this bill, which our colleagues from overseas have stressed the ambition. As we come from the West Indies with the echoes of the difficulties our fellow citizens face, we would be wrong in this House to neglect the scope of such a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u5	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u6	The bill we are considering today concerns our compatriots living overseas very seriously. All the topics mentioned in these five articles have been under discussion for many years. They raise a strong expectation, to which the commitments of the President of the Republic and the Executive have been a concrete response – I will return. The temporary retirement allowance, the centre of material and moral interests, the installation allowance for the ultramarine military, their professional retraining and their enhanced leave: each of these subjects is given special attention by the Government and our Assembly. I know the continued involvement of my colleagues Nicole Sanquer and Philippe Dunoyer, as well as that of the majority, in the search for consensus. This has been reflected in the work of our delegation to the overseas countries and territories, resulting in several reports in connection with the articles of this bill. Personally invested in several of these reports, I was pleased to see, like you, that the President of the Republic had also seized them. Indeed, during his official visit to French Polynesia last July, Emmanuel Macron confirmed that a joint commission would be set up to evaluate the devices of the INSMET, the ITR and the ICM and thus to address the concerns that weigh on the daily lives of the ultramarine populations. Even before the commission was set up, the Government wished to make rapid progress on those issues, which had been unanswered for too long. As early as 26 October, during the review of the 2022 Finance Bill, the Minister of Armed Forces confirmed that a review of the INSMET system had been undertaken to address the inequalities between the ultramarine military in our country. Florence Parly made the commitment that a draft decree would be presented next January, constituting a major step forward for all the soldiers of the Pacific and Mayotte. The Minister's promise is in line with section 3 of the proposed legislation. As far as the ITR is concerned, the process of reflection initiated by Mrs de Montchalin – she herself said earlier – and in which several of my colleagues have been involved, shows the will to reach concrete and lasting proposals. The freezing of the sunset measure, provided for in Article 1 of the proposed law, would therefore not allow us to move, in the longer term, towards a system – also called for by the unions we have interviewed – that would allow all the officials, regardless of which side they belong to, to over-assess during their careers in order to obtain a higher pension and more adapted to the cost of living in those territories. With regard to CIMM, it is quite correct that the control of material and moral interests leads to misunderstandings as well as to resentment. Simplification of the establishment of ICES, the development of information on this issue and the objectivation of material and moral interests would make it possible to standardize powers. That must be our road map for the future. However, including the ICM scheme in the law could jeopardize the entire body of case law established in recent years. It also appears – and the Minister has confirmed it – that this mechanism plays its role and that requests for mobility of officials justifying the IMMC are given the legal priority of assignment. However, its mobilization is very uneven. It would be appropriate for employers to better inform public servants of the existence of the ICES and its granting procedures in order to make its use more frequent. With regard to the provision of extended leave every two years for ultramarine military personnel, it is important to recall that, since 2007, military personnel from an overseas community may apply, on the basis of cumulative permissions, for a free, return and return passage to their original territory. However, this provision falls under the regulatory authority. On the other hand, if it may appear appropriate to align the military regime of accumulated leave with that of enhanced leave for public servants, such a measure could lead to a loss for our members: shorter leave, limitation of the cost-of-life allowance. Finally, with regard to the request for a report on the professional retraining of military personnel, as I did in committee last week, it should be recalled that Defence Mobility has an office in French Polynesia dedicated to accompaniment of the professional transition of military personnel and former military personnel. In addition, producing such reports is fully within the competence of our Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, and in order to ensure the continuity of the work started and the commitments made, the working Republic Group will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u7	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u8	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u9	There are structural inequalities in the overseas territories and the Ultramarines. Public policies are trying to compensate for them. But there are also stark inequalities created by the fact of history, probably for reasons of budgetary control. And, as always, it is convenient to charge the price to the weakest and the furthest, that is to say to our overseas compatriots. For example, State and military agents from the ultramarine territories are subject to unequal treatment indemnities. For years – as all speakers have said – the state has been deaf to the injustices denounced on all the benches of this assembly by the overseas deputies. In fact, we had the demonstration at the moment with Mrs Atger's intervention. This was still the case in 2020 in the context of the delegation's fact-finding mission to the overseas countries and territories on the consequences of pension reform, of which I was co-rapporteur. That is why I sincerely welcome the quality of the substantive work and the determination of our colleague Member of Parliament for Polynesia, Nicole Sanquer, to reach a public debate and, I hope, a vote in favour of this bill. Indeed, the installation allowance in the metropolis of the Ultramarins is awarded only to soldiers of Martinique, Guadeloupéenne or Réunionnaise origin. This is incomprehensible, as regards the absolutely essential installation aid, which represents nine months of pay. Member of Parliament of Mayotte, I know the situation of these recruits: every year many young Mahorais decide to serve under the flags. The soldiers of the overseas France make our pride and the reputation of our country in the world. How is it that those in Mayotte and the Pacific cannot benefit from this aid as well as their brothers in arms reunited or Antillean? In addition, measures to support overseas agents and military personnel are subject to criteria laid down by decree to define the centre of the agent's material and moral interests. However, these criteria lead administrations to assess the same situation differently. Such distortions are experienced as terrible injustices. However, as our rapporteur has pointed out, although successive governments have found them and committed themselves to repairing them, nothing has been done. Words, always words, just words! A final provision illustrates this inaction perfectly: the disappearance, without any substitute, of the temporary retirement allowance. While more than 34,000 people continue to benefit from the ITR, its planned disappearance severely penalizes new beneficiaries. Let us be clear: the savings resulting from the termination of this allowance must be used to support the territories concerned. Is it worth recalling that the cost of living in these territories is significantly higher than that of Hexagon and that life expectancy is lower there? Successive governments committed themselves to establishing an alternative arrangement before the end of the current regime in 2028. But, Madam Minister, 2028, it's tomorrow! The decision to reform the ITR was taken thirteen years ago; All this time, we've been waiting for a new device. So far, no project has been completed. After years of interpellation of successive governments by parliamentarians from all sides, it seems that no outcome has yet been envisaged. Minister, I have listened to you with great interest. You have made some commitments at the beginning of this debate. However, I am afraid to share my scepticism with you for a number of reasons. First, in the mid-1960s, one of your distant predecessors pointed out – to paraphrase it – that the overseas is far away: sometimes you have to speak louder to be heard and you are often answered late. Secondly, while the President of the Republic, on the occasion of his visit to Mayotte, undertook to improve the situation of pensioners who received only 280 euros a month after a full career, it must be noted that, two years later, this promise was not fulfilled. The situation we are debating does not grow, because it exhales an air of nausea with a name: discrimination. Discrimination has never been a faithful companion of the Republic that we cherish and to which we are all attached. That is why Parliament must shoulder its responsibilities. Let us move on to action: let us adopt this text! And if the Government, driven by our determination, fulfils its commitments in 2022, we will only be more satisfied. In this spirit, and with the desire to join its voice in a fight that seems fair to it, the Republican Group will support the adoption of this text, which puts an end to injustices that have lasted too long with regard to State agents and ultramarine soldiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u10	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u11	In the preamble, I would like to call for appeasement in Guadeloupe and Martinique. As we know, the health crisis is made more difficult by the economic and social difficulties that have been there for years. We understand the exasperation. We hear suffering and distress. The only legitimate fight, however, is that of words, not violence against people, caregivers and law enforcement. More than ever, the time has come for dialogue to find a way out of a collective crisis. This is the path our colleagues in the Democratic Group elected in Guadeloupe, Justine Benin and Max Mathiasin are trying to find. I welcome their commitment to this indispensable fight against expensive life, but also for genuine access to care. Our group is mobilized alongside them on these issues, as well as on all those that touch on ultramarine issues. We have had the opportunity to say so in the Committee on Laws: the situation of civil servants and ultramarine soldiers, because it is very particular, requires state support to fight against expensive life. But this fight must be waged for all ultramarine citizens: it is part of a comprehensive policy in favour of, among other things, the economic development of these territories, training at all ages of life or the strengthening of purchasing power. For more than four years, the Democratic Group has been promoting this approach in a concrete way alongside the Government. But let us be lucid: the measures we have taken will not solve everything with a magic wand. However, we must continue to act, not only in practice on the ground, but also at the legislative level through an appropriate budget and appropriate reforms. The various overseas budgets we have adopted are up to the challenges. They are in addition to the recovery plan designed to combat the health crisis and which also benefits overseas, since at least EUR 1.5 billion will be spent in 2021 and 2022 on projects taking account of the specificities of these territories. If such devices are available, they are probably not legible or accessible enough to be fully effective. In addition, any additional measures that may be adopted must be consistent with those already in force. The text presented today is not in line with this, Madam rapporteur. It does not seem to us to provide a relevant answer to all the problems that you rightly raise. As regards the temporary retirement allowance, you yourself explain in the explanatory memorandum that it is discriminatory, in particular because it does not benefit the officials of Guadeloupe, Martinique or Guyana. In addition, abuses have been identified which have made the scheme increasingly expensive. Instead of maintaining this ineffective mechanism, we consider it essential to deal with the problem as a whole. The Government, as the Minister recalled, has thus committed itself to establishing a committee for each territory in order to initiate a reflection on the cost of living overseas. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is fully committed to this process, which will allow us to identify all the levers that can be used to overcome the issue of retirement benefits alone. You would also like to modify the criteria for assessing, which are considered too vague, the legal priority of assignment enjoyed by officials who can prove that the centre of their material and moral interests is situated overseas. The Government's assessment last July, however, concluded that the legal priority of assignment had been successful, which had made it possible to speed up the mobility of ultramarine civil servants. Furthermore, as you know, the definition of assessment criteria is a matter of regulation and not a matter of legislation. The inclusion of these in the law could lead to oversights and have more negative than positive effects. We understand your willingness to fight the remaining differences in treatment: this fight is also important to us. However, the bill will not be able to do so. It could even have the opposite effect, not because it would not be successful, but simply because the measures that we are taking here should not counteract the actions taken at the same time by the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Overseas Territories deserve effective and sustainable measures, not bandages that cannot permanently remedy the situation that you denounce. That is why the Democratic Group will vote against the bill, while remaining mobilized alongside the people in their legitimate fight against expensive life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u12	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u13	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u14	The bill before us aims to restore some equality in the treatment that the state accords to our ultramarine compatriots. This text contains recommendations made by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories; We will therefore have no difficulty in voting on it. But how can we not regret that he deals with such an important issue from such a narrow perspective? Of course, we must not accuse our colleagues in the IDU and independent group: it is the Government that obliges us to address such an important issue on a day of parliamentary niche. Everyone understands that the means of a parliamentary group have nothing to do with those available to the Government to pass a comprehensive bill in favour of overseas countries and to allow equality to finally become a reality. Instead, we are living in a period in which the Government's despondency towards the overseas countries is turned into contempt and even aggressiveness. The ongoing crisis in Guadeloupe is the most glaring and painful manifestation of this; In the face of a social and economic situation of objectively unequivalent or almost equivalent hardness in Hexagon, the Government chooses the strong way and gives blows of chin. What our Guadeloupian compatriots are going through is unacceptable. When they reach the end of their patience, they protest. These protests are an opportunity for spillovers, which the Government uses as a pretext to threaten and intimidate. It's a mistake and a mistake. To govern a people is certainly not to watch a plebe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u15	Oh, there! It hurts your ears!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u16	Poverty undermines overseas. Unemployment and the lack of prospects are all covers that stifle the lives and genius of our compatriots. Restoring a little equality in the treatment of ultramarine French people is the subject of this bill, and that is the least we can do. Creating genuine equality between all French citizens regardless of their place of residence and life is a challenge that the Government has never sought to address. Thus, depending on the community in which you live, you may have to give up regular and constant access to drinking water;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u17	Talk to the local elected officials, it's their job! It is not all the responsibility of the State: we must all face up to our responsibilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u18	... to receive quality health care; schooling his children in normal conditions – one has to hope that they will run for half the time. It is impossible and unacceptable to get used to these situations. The Government uses the words "Republic" and "Republican" wrongly and through, but in four years, what has it done to justify their use in relation to our overseas compatriots? Can we claim that their citizenship is not violated when their social rights are not effective? The hypocrisy that leads to say that everything is okay is deleterious. I send a solemn warning to the Government against events whose scale and strength will desolate all the French who are concerned with public harmony: the choice of repression and contempt is a provocation that calls for answers that we will all have to deplore. In New Caledonia, the continued holding of the referendum under conditions inadequate to the serene and confident expression of the general will is an error whose price to be paid could be exorbitant. A long and delicate process is jeopardized by an obstinacy which is not necessary and which opens the way for disputes. Condemning trade unionists, sending gendarmerie reinforcements, mobilizing the intervention group of the national gendarmerie (GIGN) and the RAID – Research, assistance, intervention, deterrence – are all actions that fuel distrust of the state and damage the bond of solidarity and fraternity that must unite the members of the national community. Overseas countries do not have to endure the alternation of mieux words and odious acts used by the Government, which first presents these territories as an opportunity for France before showing that it considers their inhabitants above all as a threatening population. Overseas is indeed a chance. They are even the matrix of a affirmed republican universalism: the one that takes note of the creolization, which puts the political pact and respect for the rights of people at the heart of collective life and which, under this condition, authorizes and nourishes the chatination of cultures and the permanent reinvention of traditions. Finally, as in so many other areas, it must be noted that Emmanuel Macron's mandate was a waste: we will have lost five years in which, from social explosions to social explosions, it was only a question of repleasure, when everyone knows that it would have taken a revolution. This is not surprising: candidate Macron had given the measure of his disinterest in the overseas during the 2017 election campaign. The injuring words and baldness concerning Mayotte and Guyana showed the few cases he made of France far from Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u19	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u20	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u21	We will vote for this text for lack of better for the moment, but it is clear that the best is to come, if the people get involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u22	It feels good when it stops!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u23	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u24	It is often said that overseas is a wealth for France and that it is a key factor for the nation in terms of economic, diplomatic and military independence and sovereignty. But we also often hear, unfortunately, that they are expensive and that their inhabitants should stop complaining and comply with orders – for overseas France is the same as Paris, and the rules must apply everywhere in the same way! This speech, which I have heard this week again about the health and social situation in the West Indies and which I call a rhetoric of "assimilation by scrub," is spreading increasingly, denoting society's lack of understanding of the issues related to overseas and deterring the bond of trust between these territories and the nation. Fortunately, in almost ten years of my term of office, I also had the chance to meet, in addition to my colleagues, many people committed overseas – passionate individuals, defenders of these territories and convinced of the strength they bring to France, but also respectful of their stories and aware of their specificities. The bill defended by our colleague Nicole Sanquer deals with the injustices experienced by our ultramarine fellow citizens, especially those who, while serving the State in a civil or military capacity – the text is therefore about the competence of the State – also bear the costs of the sometimes fierce prejudices resulting from the lack of knowledge of our territories. The opportunity is thus given to me to mention the very difficult fight we are fighting for the recognition of our specificities. We must fight for it when it is to our advantage, as in the case of CIMM, but on the other hand, the state does not hesitate to highlight our differences when they lead to the application of expensive devices such as ITR or INSMET, even though they fall within its competence. In fact, whatever the subject, the issue is ultimately of a budgetary nature. I will not go back in detail to the three main chapters of the bill, dealing with the ITR, the IMMC and the situation of the overseas military: there have been a great many of us in the last three legislatures calling for the resolution of these problems. In this regard, I welcome the work of our colleague Stéphanie Atger, a member of the majority who has been fully committed to the access of the Polynesian military to INSMET. Nicole Sanquer has been fighting from the beginning with written questions, oral questions and amendments. Similarly, Philippe Gomès and I had tabled very many amendments on these issues during the last parliamentary term. I am thinking, of course, of Philippe Dunoyer and all the other Members from overseas, but also of Hexagon, who have committed themselves to these matters. It was thanks to Ericka Bareigts in 2015 that the CIMM was first recognized in the law. Subsequently, section 85 of the Overseas Real Equality Programming Act, known as EROM, established the location of the centre of material and moral interests in an overseas community as a legal priority of assignment, as confirmed by the 2019 Public Service Transformation Act. However, the allocation of the CIMM remains a journey of the fighter, Minister. Like probably all overseas MPs, I have dealt with more than 200 letters on this subject since 2014. I know that I very often bother the Government by asking it to support requests for CIMM, but that is because the situation is not normal. Unfortunately, we are aware of difficulties and even abuses. There is a real need to facilitate and better guide the implementation of ICES. Civil servants, civilian or military, active or retired, are recruited to serve the State in various locations. But I note that those of the Hexagon never exercise more than a few hours by train or car from their home and their loved ones, which changes everything! Similarly, they are never obliged to go overseas – if they do, it is at their request and, believe me, the waiting list is long. On the other hand, ultramarine officials are forced to leave in the first year!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u25	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u26	It is a force for the state to have ultramarine officials: they know their territory, they are bilingual, they are very much appreciated by the population. Let us facilitate their lives, recognize what they bring to our nation, whether civilian or military.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u27	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u28	As you will understand, I will support this text in my personal capacity. As for the Action Group, because of the new encouraging developments on INSMET and ICM, it will abstain. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to have a kind look at these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u29	Mrs Nicole Sanquer, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u30	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers who have expressed their support for this bill in the rostrum. They have understood, I felt, that it is not a matter of demanding more, but of putting an end to the discrimination and injustice experienced by some members of the public service of the State, whether civilian or military. Madam Minister, I have heard that you have defined a schedule of work in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic when he visited French Polynesia. But as you know, commitments, we have heard others. We have already shown confidence. But as Mr. Kamardine said, these are words, words, words. Of course, and the few meetings we have held together have convinced me of this, you have understood the problem facing our communities and measured the resentment of our public servants and members. This, of course, has great hope. But there's not much time left. The last time we met, you announced measures before the end of the legislature; Today, you only mention 2022. It is not that we do not trust, but we have already believed so much in the word of the State – which, unfortunately, has not always kept its commitments. You refer to the establishment of an advisory committee, but since the President of the Republic's visit to French Polynesia, it could have been largely formed, especially since it was part of his commitments! Time has its value, especially for an ultramarine civil servant who retires: every year, the amount of the ITR drops – minus 800 euros by 1 January 2022. You have also mentioned a partnership work, but knowing your busy agenda for this end of the legislature, and to the extent that the Assembly will finish its work in February, I wonder. Of course, you have committed yourself, like all your predecessors... This bill, however, is concrete. Let all our fellow citizens read it and they will see that these are not words, that it addresses in concrete terms three major subjects for officials and ultramarine soldiers. It is really proposing progress. As I said in my opening speech, it is not perfect, but it still has a path to follow, with its passage to the Senate, which should give you time to conduct and enrich your collaborative work, while rejecting it from the outset would once again be lacking a commitment from the state. And as I told you, minister, commitments, we've heard before. How to explain an injustice such as that experienced by the Pacific military, which has lasted for more than fifty years! And yet the Pacific has played its part in making France a nuclear power and is second in terms of maritime area. It is such injustices and discrimination that the bill seeks to put an end to. As far as ICM is concerned, the guide you have just published will satisfy only the government services! You haven't heard the officers who have to go through a real combatant's journey just to be recognized as coming from their own community. Are we asking a Breton to build a file to prove its origin? The CIMM is this: to give a legal priority of assignment, we go so far as to claim all the student's school bulletins! You can easily imagine the resentment that this can cause, especially since the officer concerned is not even certain that he or she is recognized as a native of the community if he or she married a metropolitan area or bought his or her first home in Hexagonia. As Maina Sage said, we are receiving numerous requests on this subject, all because the administrative services of the State do not recognize the origin of these officials. And even when the latter obtain the ICM, other criteria are added by the regional directorates or by the local directorates, and they are no longer considered priorities! They have made the choice to commit themselves to the State, the choice to commit themselves to France with regard to the military, but, unfortunately, they have to fight to return home. It is a great inequality and injustice. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and FI groups]] I understand that the majority groups will reject this bill. But you have all the time to enrich these proposals, based on the work of the committee you wish to set up and on the various debates you intend to hold with the partners concerned. Don't forget to hear these officials, these soldiers, who now feel abandoned by the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u31	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u32	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text. On Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5, I am seized by the IDU group and independent of them of a request for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u33	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u34	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 14 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u35	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u36	The purpose of this amendment is to enable trainee teachers and full-time teachers to benefit, in calculating their scale, from the criteria justifying the centre of material and moral interests in one of the communities governed by articles 73 and 74 of the Constitution, as well as in New Caledonia. Indeed, the current bonus system is inadequate because it does not allow teachers from overseas countries to stay or return even though the needs in this area are acute; the new winners of the competitions are systematically assigned to the academies of hexagonal France, and this often in disregard of their wishes for assignment, even though there are unfilled posts in their original academie. These unwanted and unprepared assignments have serious consequences for the recipients and their families, whether financial or personal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u37	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u38	I fully support this amendment. Minister, this is about making it a priority for our fellow citizens to return to their home communities. To help you take a stand, I would point out that this would result in great savings for the Crown, since every public servant who is available to practise in our communities benefits from bonuses and allowances, which are not paid to local public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u39	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u40	[[Murmures on the benches of the IDU-I group]] First of all, Madam rapporteur, I would like to return to your previous speech. I do not believe that we honour democracy by considering that the words spoken by the representatives of the State are by definition promises that will not be kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u41	That's not what the rapporteur said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u42	That's what the experiment says!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u43	I understand the disappointment in the time lost...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u44	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u45	... but I am certain of one thing: when the President of the Republic went to Polynesia, he said that the soldiers from the Pacific would, like the others, be helped to settle in the metropolis if that's where they are called. That commitment will be fulfilled, and I would like to say so firmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u46	After the presidential election, no doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u47	The Minister of Armed Forces announced that the decree would be issued in early 2022; as Minister of the Civil Service, responsible for all public officials, I tell you again that when the President of the Republic makes a commitment in Polynesia, the Government is working on it and the commitment is kept. You mentioned ICM; As Minister of the Public Service, I believe it is vital that political commitments be implemented in practice in each department. There must be no difference between the announcements of a democratically elected government and what is happening in reality. Please be aware that I intend to work to ensure that departmental Secretaries General, Human Resources Branches, the Administration and Public Service Branch and the Overseas Department regularly report on applications received. We need to understand why, of the 2000 applications received per year, some are accepted while others are rejected, and whether there are differences in treatment between departments. In short, we need to pilot the device. But for things to move forward, we need a minimum of confidence in our respective words: mine, yours, that of all the Members present here. When we speak words, we must have in mind that the goal is to see them become acts, and that they must produce results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u48	That is precisely not the case, until proof to the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u49	Neither I nor any other government minister intend to drown the fish to save time. Since July, we have been working on the composition of the advisory committee: we have asked men and women to commit themselves to meeting at the beginning of 2022, to discuss, starting from the discussions we had with your colleagues Stéphanie Atger and Philippe Dunoyer, problems to diagnose and answers to them. We expect that by the end of the first half of 2022 we will have done the work. I would like to solemnly say to you: for democracy to work, we must consider that the commitments we make will by definition be fulfilled. It is your role to be demanding, to hold us accountable for our commitments and to verify their translation into deeds. It is enshrined in the Constitution: you must evaluate the action of the Government. I repeat, the new commitments of the President of the Republic will be fulfilled. With regard to the amendment that has just been tabled, I find it difficult to make the ICES play for teachers leaving school or the first assignments. We have created a dedicated mechanism, the national competitions on local assignment, which enjoy the same recognition as the national competitions, but which allow the winners to be directly assigned where they have passed them. This seems to me to be the right way to proceed: if a given territory needs teachers or caregivers, one can go through a national competition – the assignment is then made, in a transparent way, where there are needs – or through a national competition with local allocation, in which case the establishment is carried out directly in the territories concerned, for example overseas. The Chairman of the Overseas Delegation, Olivier Serva, asked me if any such competitions would be held in the overseas countries and territories in the near future; I can't answer you today because we haven't reported jobs with a recruitment deficit, but local posting competitions are well organized in some ministries – for example, for the benefit of the Seine-Saint-Denis department, for missions related to public finances. So we're moving forward. If I am against the amendment, it is that the tool already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u50	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u51	When considering an application from CIMM, our Mahorese colleague Ramlati Ali proposes to take into account one additional criterion: the fact that an official is a trustee or guardian of an elderly parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u53	Favourable. I fully understand the logic of the amendment and the humanity that motivates it. I had not considered this case, but it is obvious that if a judge asked you to take care of an elderly person or person in difficulty, you are fully legitimate to be assigned to the territory in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u54	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u55	I know that your colleague Ramlati Ali is very interested in the matter. Older people need to have their families, loved ones or caregivers with them. The problem is particularly acute in the ultramarine territories and I welcome Stéphanie Atger's work on the issue of ageing in the overseas territories. However, tutoring and curatelle are already part of the definition of CIMM. It is in the best interests of individual and humane consideration of each applicant's situation. You say in the summary statement of the amendment that certain administrations do not consider themselves bound by court decisions; I will give the necessary instructions to ensure that this type of situation is properly taken into account in the definition of ICES – your colleague Serva will also present an amendment to reverse the terms in favour of "centre of moral and material interests". Unfavorable opinion. The request is formally met, but particular attention needs to be paid to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u56	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u57	Ms. Ali, who had to take the plane, had made it clear that this was an appeal amendment to ensure that you would be able to take these situations into account on the bench. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u58	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u59	While ultramarine specificities must be taken into account in the definition of the legal framework of ICES, it is equally important to ensure that ICES cannot be diverted from its object. Affordable effects, costly to the State, must be avoided. That is why we wish to clarify that the property held by the agents must have been "acquired by bequest, succession or donation", proof that the agent in question belongs to the ultramarine territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u61	It is interesting to note that you are amending the text of your bill yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u62	It's the role of a rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u63	You can see the possible drifts. It is very difficult to describe in a rigorous manner what material and moral interest is. For some people, the acquisition of real estate is evidence of CIMM; That's how we're thinking right now. Your intention – to avoid anyone who buys a real estate overseas being seen as a justification for a CIMM – is commendable, but the three types of acquisition you mention – bequests, estates and donations – are already used as CIMM criteria. As a matter of principle and in the interests of the people you wish to defend, it is not necessary to include in the law provisions that will exclude more than they will favour public officials who want to assert a CIMM in the ultramarine territories. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u64	Amendment No 11 by Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u65	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u67	For the same reasons as before, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u68	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1 and 13. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u69	I let Mr Dunoyer defend the same amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u70	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u71	We propose to correct the bill, which itself introduced a novelty. There is a list of criteria for the definition of ICES, but subjectivity largely outweighs the objective assessment of situations. In an attempt to remedy this, the text proposes to select at least three criteria; Our amendments aim to increase their number to four. Indeed, during the hearings, we found that some of the criteria were in fact related to the same situation – for example, a recently enhanced leave granted to the grievor. The amendment would reduce subjectivity in order to take better account of concrete situations. I would point out that in the list of criteria for CIMM, there is the place of burial of the parents – I should have drafted an amendment to propose to delete it; This means that the identification of a CIMM sometimes goes too far. In order to avoid this subjectivity, we propose to base ourselves not on three, but on four criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u73	I understand the logic of the amendment, but I believe that its adoption would make the process more rigid. By setting four, five or x criteria, one would effectively exclude the assessment – not arbitrary, but human, benevolent and realistic – of the link between the person and a territory. It seems to me useful and necessary for administrations to consider how the 2000 annual applications are actually processed, in order to correct the differences in appreciation for which habits may be responsible. The guide we have developed for use by agents and administrations must provide a scoping, but the way in which the ICES is built allows us to present far more elements than you quote. Sometimes two criteria will be sufficient; in other cases, the application will be more substantiated. I do not believe that including in the law the need to meet at least four criteria really helps the people you legitimately want to accompany. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u74	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u75	The subject is complex, otherwise we would not be here to discuss it. The balance sheet submitted to us in July shows that there are very few disputes related to the non-assignment of CIMM. We have seen it at the hearing and I confirm it: this low rate of recourse does not, of course, mean an exceptional level of satisfaction. In order to facilitate appeals – if people consider it legitimate to bring them – the criteria for the location of the CIMM should be precisely defined. If we do not do so today, I hope that this will be the case tomorrow in circulars or instructions that can be given to administrations. I take the example of this gentleman who has been recognized as a CIMM for a disability pension, but not for a retirement pension. She is the same person, she was born and educated in the same place and she is domiciled in the same place, but obviously subjectivity has taken a very important place in the decision. Had that person been able to go to court on the basis of four criteria, she could have countered that subjectivity. That is the profound meaning of the two identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u76	I have before me two amendments, Nos 8 and 15, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u77	Our discussions show that the current arrangements for the location of ICES are problematic and that this is a resentment for our ultramarine fellow citizens who are denied it. This amendment proposes the creation of a committee to assess the justification of the centre of the applicant's material and moral interests. The current procedure is indeed indefensible in a rule of law: what the administration calls flexibility is in reality arbitrary. Arbitrariness claimed, moreover, since, as we learned during the hearings, the overseas departments and the public service are responsible for applying different rules, the criteria being weighted differently. It is also an exclusively written procedure which, as a result, is cruelly lacking in humanity. In order to correct these shortcomings, I propose that a single, interdepartmental committee be entrusted with the task of taking decisions on ICES for the whole administration. So, we'd unify the use. I also propose that representatives of civilian and military personnel – they would obviously be a minority – sit in this body to speak with the agents concerned. Finally, the possibility for the applicant to be heard would reduce the risk of litigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u78	Mr Philippe Dunoyer's amendment No 15 is being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u79	I hope that the public service of the twenty-first century will not be made up of commissions, arbitrariness and disembodied decisions, but, on the contrary, be based on human resources of proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u80	Ah, ah, ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u81	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u82	It is absolutely necessary if we are to make the public service more attractive, to recognize the commitment of the men and women who serve our country on a daily basis and to give meaning to their duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u83	All you have to do is see what's happening in national education!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u84	This means that we need to define resource points within administrations in order to allow the people concerned to ask questions and be accompanied with humanity, especially after a decision that would not be satisfactory. This idea is at the heart of the transformation of the public service. It applies to all departments and covers recruitment, career follow-up and mobility assistance. All public officials must have a reference in human resources services so that a link can be established beyond forms and bureaucracy. With regard to the "portability" of the ICM, I will ask my services to study this subject closely. Since the location of a CIMM has been recognised by an administrative department, it must also be recognised by other administrations without the need for the public official concerned to establish a new file: the first analysis must remain valid. There is very simple progress to be made, but it is a matter of enforcement measures that are internal to the administration and not of the law. It is therefore by giving priority to human contact that we will achieve fair treatment, but also through the work that I have indicated to you that we want to engage: those who make decisions about ICM must identify, in order to better address them, any differences between departments in the assessment of the criteria for localization. The men and women concerned should not have the impression that their requests are judged from afar: they must be judged closely and with benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u85	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u86	I confess to being disappointed – if not troubled – by the Government's refusal to set up a specialized commission for the allocation of the ICM. Madam Minister, in response to several amendments, you have indicated that we should not worry because they were already satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u88	However, you yourself have acknowledged that, although the position of trustee or guardian of a close relative is one of the criteria for justifying the ICES, the administrations did not always take into account the relevant court decisions, to the extent that it is necessary to give instructions to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u89	I called him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u90	Certain criteria are therefore already provided for, but are not taken into account. You also acknowledged that these criteria could be interpreted very differently from one jurisdiction to another, and that you wanted to harmonize the procedures. You also claim to want to humanize them. However, the rapporteur has pointed out that a fully written procedure is not satisfactory in this respect, especially when it concerns 2000 people per year. A commission would therefore be a simple way of avoiding the arbitrariness of the head of office and limiting the difference in treatment of the same situation by different administrations. I am not saying that commissions are adorned with all virtues, but they have at least the advantage of allowing the confrontation of views, in a transparent and visible way by all – a fortiori by the applicant. It is necessary to allow the latter to be heard directly after producing a written argument. In many jurisdictions in the public service, this is how things happen. Understanding what is not working – as Philippe Dunoyer, Nicole Sanquer and others said earlier – is still the best way to proceed. Putting several people around a table would allow us to confront points of view and avoid decisions made without real explanation or real recourse – because people don't know how to do it. You were talking about the motivation of the agents: in order to preserve it, would it not be desirable for them to understand the reasons for the refusal against them? It is on this condition, and only after having been able to personally state their situation, that they could consider the final decision legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u91	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u92	When, in 2019, we had discussed the subject in the debate on the bill to transform the public service, introduced by Olivier Dussopt, the Secretary of State had committed himself to making all the transparency on the powers of ICM. He had really reassured us: we had to get stocktakings, organize specific meetings on the subject, etc. It is true that the Government has since been reformed. But if you do not agree to create a dedicated commission, make at least a commitment, Madam Minister, to provide us with an annual review of ICM procedures, indicating the criteria applied and the reasons for the rejection of applications – respecting the anonymity of the applicants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u93	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u94	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 18 Against 27
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u95	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No 5, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u96	Currently, the ICM mechanism only plays for deployments, and not for first assignments. The amendment is intended to allow successful candidates in a competition to avail themselves of a CIMM to receive an assignment priority as soon as they enter the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u98	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u100	I refer you to my comments on the national local assignment competitions. This is a path that we could really explore, and which I think is much more relevant to ensure equal treatment. Unlike a traditional national competition, all the winners of a local assignment competition are assigned to the territory for which they have applied. But it would be destabilizing to apply the IMMC from the first assignment when it is linked to mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u101	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u102	In our view, public service competitions must remain at the national level. Unity is a condition of their quality. However, this is absolutely not opposed to the possibility of assigning a legal priority to some of the successful candidates. I wanted to clarify our position on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u103	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u104	Let me cite an example specific to New Caledonia. The Registrar's Competition is a national competition. When Caledonian candidates succeed, they must logically follow their schooling in the metropolis, which means making significant financial efforts since their remuneration does not take into account their origin. Such sacrifices are sometimes tenable over the duration of the formation, but not beyond if there is no certainty, no prospect of return to the territory. This leads some winners to give up their assistance. This is obviously a complex subject, which involves discussing criteria and prioritizing priorities. For some competitions cited by the Minister, this works very well: in New Caledonia, 95 per cent of police posts are held by Caledonians. But it works less well in the gendarmerie. The situation is not the same according to the required criteria and by sector. A global reflection must be carried out to enable Caledonians, Polynesians, Wallisians and all persons from the ultramarine territories to embark on costly formations knowing that the prospect of a return will make this sacrifice acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u105	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u106	Presented by Olivier Serva, he plans to prioritize the criteria justifying the assignment priority. Ultramarine civil servants are often forced to wait a long time before they are assigned to their territory of origin. They sometimes see colleagues without such ties passing in front of them, while they themselves have had to justify that they are indeed from the territory that saw them born, where their parents live and where they have been educated. The same applies to some civil servants who are disabled. Such situations can be misunderstood. We therefore propose to prioritise in order according to the priorities of assignment, with priority being given first to officials who justify a CIMM, then to those who are disabled, with requests for the reconciliation of spouses of civil servants coming in third place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u108	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u110	I do not find it desirable to prioritise priorities or to include in the law criteria that fall within the purview of regulatory authority. This would not be in the direction of a fair, transparent, humane and caring assessment of the situations which, I repeat, are the ones we want. I propose that you withdraw this amendment, otherwise the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u111	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u112	Our colleague Olivier Serva proposes to change the name of ICM and to speak of "moral and material interests" rather than "material and moral interests". Staff members must prove that the centre of their material and moral interests is in the territory in which they wish to benefit from a transfer, enhanced leave or the cost of changing residence. CIMM touches on the origins, identity, history and intimacy of people from overseas. The latter have been massively called upon to leave their territories, sometimes reluctantly, as a result of migration policies, including through the Bureau for Migration Development in the Overseas Departments, BUMIDOM. The State's discourse is then as follows: "The growing demographic pressure in the overseas departments makes it more difficult and more precarious every day to achieve stable and widespread full employment. This situation leads many workers who are concerned about their social advancement and who want to find a full-time occupation [...] enabling them to found a home or to raise their children properly, to seek the possibilities of an establishment in metropolitan France, with the firm resolve to make the necessary efforts to adapt to new conditions of employment and, possibly, to acquire the professional knowledge they lack. The Government, in the interests of national solidarity, decided to facilitate these settlements and approved a migration policy. » However, the ageing of the population in Guadeloupe, Martinique, New Caledonia and Polynesia – we will come back to it on the occasion of another amendment – makes it necessary to encourage, in the opposite direction, the return to the country. The purpose of this amendment is to modify the order of presentation of the interests concerned by the ICES in order not to alter the meaning of history and the legal concept. It is thus proposed to place moral vigilance before material attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u114	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u116	I rely on the wisdom of your assembly. I am not sure that this fundamentally changes the way these interests will be taken into account, but it is a choice that you can make in an enlightened way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u117	How generous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u118	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u119	I hear the minister's argument that she does not want to rigidize the procedure by including in the legislation the criteria for the assessment of ICES, but it is important for us to standardize these criteria in order to secure their application and to objectify decisions to better inspire practices. In this respect, Amendment No 6 is a fine amendment: it is important to put moral interests ahead of material interests because unfortunately there are Polynesians – and other ultramarines – who cannot rely on any material interest in locating their CIMM. We try every day to solve upuesque situations. I am following the case of a Polynesian, son of a soldier, who left his home country very young. His father and twin brother – with whom he has a very strong connection – returned to Polynesia but made him his life in metropolitan France. He has been trying to return to the archipelago for thirteen years. He doesn't have property there, no house, no job. He had to follow his very young family when he was a teenager, and then set up a home here, but he wants to go home, to get closer to his brother. Morally, how can he be denied his CIM? Yet this is what he has been suffering for thirteen years, on the pretext that he has nothing, has no material interests in Polynesia. Yet it is her territory, her parents were born there, her family, her twin brother live there. Such situations are difficult for the officials concerned, especially when they see other people, who are not necessarily of ultramarine origin, to obtain the recognition of a CIMM through the material criterion. There is a need for a change of approach and philosophy in the handling of these cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u120	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u121	By this appeal amendment, Ms Ali requested that the assignment priority should also apply to staff members who demonstrated themselves to carry out a mission or to respond to an exceptional mobility campaign resulting from a one-time need or exceptional circumstances overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u123	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u125	I am aware of Mrs Ramlati Ali's commitment to this matter. By definition, CIMM prevails whenever a mobility campaign is opened. But the case here is a little different. When an officer's skills are used for an emergency mission, as has been the case for several months as a result of the health crisis, he or she is not expected to change his or her principal residence. There is therefore no need in this case to have the CIMM play; It wouldn't make much sense. I suggest that you withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u126	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u127	Our colleague Olivier Serva wishes to return to the subject of ageing. In 2030, one third of the population of Guadeloupe will be 60 years of age and over, compared to a quarter in 2017. The ageing of the ultramarine population is accelerating, with significant needs for health infrastructure, training and housing. In order to take account of this development, the amendment calls on the State to provide a tool for demographic depression that would facilitate the mobility of officials justifying ICES.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u129	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u131	CIMM is not intended to become a tool for demographic compensation. It serves, in the event of opening of posts, to give priority to those who have material and moral interests – or moral and material – in the territories concerned. I understand your concern: aging involves new needs. Positions will be opened to satisfy them and ICES will then be taken into account to assign priority to those who can assert it. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u132	Amendments Nos 9 and 12 by Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u133	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u134	Amendment No 7 by Mr Stéphane Claireaux is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u135	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u137	Disadvantaged because, as I said, I am very cautious that a report would help the military to convert professionally. To achieve this, they need action rather than reporting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u138	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u139	I can understand your opposition to the requests for a report, but in reality Mr Claireaux's amendment is intended to extend the scope of Article 4 to the military of Wallis-et-Futuna and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. If strong action is being taken for the professional retraining of the military, let us not forget those who come from these two communities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u140	We don't forget anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u141	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u142	With regard to the allocation of the CIMM, Madam Minister, I have heard your commitment to work on this, but I think it is important that you hear the unions, the associations, the ultramarines who are experiencing difficulties. We were fortunate that Mr.Serva, Chairman of the Overseas Delegation, was deployed by the Prime Minister in 2018 to prepare an assessment of the situation on the ground. His report is rich in recommendations, testimony, and findings. They must be taken into account. It is not all settled, even though you felt that most of our amendments were already satisfied. If we are before you today, it is good to tell you that the current system does not work, that important developments are necessary and that they should not be purely internal to the services. You give instructions, but unfortunately, in administrations, this does not always happen as you recommend. The circulars, the commitments exist, but elected officials of all sides come to tell you that it does not work. Stéphanie Atger can confirm what I said: when we interviewed the Association of War Veterans' and War Victims' Offices, as part of our parliamentary mission on the reform of the ITR, we were told of soldiers who did not have the CIMM, and therefore did not benefit from the ITR: they receive an income below the poverty line and moreover do not manage to reconvert. That is the reality. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] At the Department of Armed Forces, we are told – like you, Madam Minister – that in view of the statistics, everything is fine. But we don't make up anything; We hear, we see, we receive mail, and we call upon you. I welcome your commitment to change things, but you must be open and listen to those who suffer these discriminations on the ground. If we ask for the report referred to in Article 4, it is because soldiers, after having committed themselves to their country, live in precarious conditions and feel abandoned by France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u143	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u144	We are listening, and we are aware that not everything is perfect, far from it. Olivier Serva's report has had very concrete consequences. Despite your scepticism, the guide I have spoken to you about will encourage convergence of practices. This guide was published in September 2021 on the very recommendation of MP Serva, convinced of its usefulness. The robustness of the figures that I presented to you today – notably the fact that 28% of mobility applications justifying a CIMM are granted, compared with 15% of files filed without CIMM – demonstrates the obligation of administrations, since Olivier Serva's report, to communicate to the Directorate General of Administration and Public Service (DGAFP), under my supervision, reliable data, which we have a duty to report to you. Of course, and it is frustrating, some individual situations remain unsatisfactory. That is why, I repeat, our public service must improve the quality of its management of local human resources, in contact with agents, in a spirit of caring humanity towards the men and women who are committed to our country. All the work we have undertaken – I want to thank all those who participated – has not, however, remained a dead letter. The vocation of administrations is not to change anything. As far as I'm concerned, I don't sign many circulars in my ministry because I prefer to work differently. The important thing is to give men and women a sense of their mission and room for manoeuvre in their daily engagement with public servants whom they help build their careers and reconvert. The Ministry of Armed Forces will of course not forget the men and women of Wallis-et-Futuna, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and any other French territory that is committed to defending our country. I wanted to clarify this: no, parliamentary work does not remain a dead letter; Yes, MP Olivier Serva's report has had very concrete consequences – I have just told you at least two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u145	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u146	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 14 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u147	I put Rule 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u148	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 30 Number of votes cast 30 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 7 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u149	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been deleted, the bill is rejected. Madam Minister, the rapporteur, thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u150	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Michel Zumkeller and others to create a platform for the referral and care of chronic patients in covid-19 (No 4697, 3413). The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u151	In March 2020, France began to keep its sad accounts of the number of cases of covid-19 infection. Just three months later, in a forum of 9 June 2020 published in Le Journal du dimanche and entitled "Sicknesses au long covid -19, it is urgent to coordinate the actions to care for us", the members of the collective Long-term covid-19 patients alerted the authorities to a persistent form of the disease. They revealed the existence of multiple symptoms that already affected, and lasting, many people. Often ignored, so much urgency was focused on the epidemic itself, which was continuing its disastrous work, these alerts said a lot about a disease that was only spreading gradually and silently in our territory. Loss of taste and smell, headache, exhaustion sometimes referred to as "terreasing fatigue", rapid shortness of breath during exercise, loss of memory, difficulty concentrating, "mental fog" causing difficulty in thinking or finding words, cardiothoracic disorders, joint pain, mental disorders: the list of symptoms is unfortunately very long. The patients' research community (ComPaRe) of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance (AP-HP) has referenced more than 50 of them to date. Although science is still grappling in this area, one thing is certain: patients suffering from these symptoms have as a common point to have been affected by the covid-19 virus, to varying degrees. These patients, who cry out for their suffering or that of their children on social networks, have often developed a so-called light form of covid-19 and, for many of them, have not been hospitalized. These people have therefore passed under the radars of the health authorities, but they suffer daily from a real evil, which prevents them from living. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, their suffering is real and they are not imaginary sick! The hearings I conducted only reinforced my conviction. These patients are not just statistics: they have a name, a face, a family, a job, a life to pursue. For a few months – for many, for more than a year – they have been suffering from the effects of a virus that has never left them. Whether they have been affected by a serious or benign form, these patients are now bruised and kept in atrocious suffering. They really suffer in their bodies and the lack of recognition of their symptoms, which are all too often associated with post-traumatic pain or depressive disorders, has social and professional repercussions that many testimonies confirm tirelessly for months on social networks. In addition, there are now financial problems due to the inability to return to full employment. These patients are thousands of people who have gathered in support groups. Collectives have been formed to bring them together and to make their suffering heard. Their demand is simple and legitimate: they want the persistent covid -19 disease, or long covid, to finally be recognized and effectively managed. We, as legislators, have the power to act on some of their sufferings to alleviate them. It is our responsibility to recognize their illness and to end the medical error that only fuels their despair, as these patients are not always effectively cared for by our system of care. We have posted a website dedicated to this bill – loicovidlong.fr – and we have received more than 2500 testimonies in a few days. This influx of messages, if necessary, attests to the need for our fellow citizens to be listened to and taken into account. Such great expectation and hope compel us. The management of chronic patients in covid-19 is a real public health challenge, which probably affects nearly one million French and French. The response must be proportional to the magnitude of the phenomenon. This is precisely the purpose of the bill, which reached consensus when it was considered in committee. With this text, we propose the rapid creation of a platform dedicated to patients post-covid -19: it will allow them to take them into real consideration by offering the possibility to all those who wish to be referred to as suffering or suffering from post-covid symptoms. Individuals will be required to complete a simple medical questionnaire, indicating the periods or duration of their symptoms and detailing them with pre-formatted medical responses. Volunteers will also be able to make a personalized comment to complete the information transmitted in an automated way. Contrary to the contaminations and deaths caused by the covid-19, it should be pointed out that to date, in France, there is no official count of the number of people affected by the long covid. The data collected by the health insurance will help identify chronic covid-19 patients and collect valuable information on the conditions they share, the duration of their symptoms and the treatments that bear fruit in the healing process. This large-scale study will help speed up research already underway in the world on this still too little known post-viral phenomenon. Although the World Health Organization (WHO) has very recently proposed a definition, much remains to be done with regard to long-term co-vid. In order to facilitate the medical care of patients who wish to do so, the medical questionnaire will guide them either directly to their treating physician, using a generalised treatment protocol for patients with long covid; or in a post-covid -19 care unit for patients with heavier pathologies, requiring extensive analysis. The Regional Health Agency (RHA) will support the rapid implementation of these post-covid care units in community hospitals by ensuring that they are allocated the human and financial resources necessary to develop a personalized follow-up to meet persistent symptoms. This will facilitate patient orientation and limit medical error, both costly and time-consuming. The analyses and care provided for the persistent symptoms of covid-19 will be fully covered by health insurance and supplementary health care. Like the covid-19, the long covid has no borders. Our European neighbours are sometimes very advanced in taking account of this new disease. Our country could thus draw inspiration from Catalonia, which soon set up a specific clinical guide, which provides for a protocol which has been declined at the local level, in primary medical centres, by long covid referents. At the hearings of the committee, we had the honour of receiving Mr Josep Maria Argimon, the Catalan Minister of Health, who presented us with the solutions implemented in his region. They exist and they work! England has also opened care centres dedicated to long covid and several specific centres to treat long covid paediatrics. These examples can help us meet this public health challenge at home. Ladies and gentlemen, everything in this pandemic leads us to think differently and to change our habits. Long Covid is a new disease that affects hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, men, women and children. Our hearings in the drafting of the bill have highlighted the existence of the long paediatric covid, which will have to be dealt with specifically. The long covid is a consensual political subject and I would like to recall the work undertaken in recent months by some of our colleagues, who have made it possible to move the subject forward – if I forget it, they will excuse me. In particular, I welcome Laurence Trastour-Isnart's bill to recognize the persistent symptoms of covid-19 and to take care of those affected. I am also thinking of our colleagues Patricia Mirallès and Julien Borowczyk and their motion for a resolution to recognise and deal with the long-term complications of covid-19. The unanimous adoption of this motion for a resolution has shown that it is collectively that we must combat this disease. Since then, action has been taken, action has been taken; No one can deny it. But the expectation of those who suffer is immense. The unanimous adoption of the bill by the Committee on Social Affairs has created a tremendous hope. The work we are now going to do in the Chamber is very much awaited. We cannot disappoint. The various amendments that we are going to consider will complement the text. The identical amendments advocated by Members of the working republic groups, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the related democrats and Action together provide useful details on how long-term covid-related pathologies are to be dealt with. An amendment by the IDU and independent group proposes to provide for the rapid opening of post-covid care units by the SRA. We will discuss this with you in a few minutes, Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, but I am convinced, because we share the same will to act quickly, that we will find the best way together. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Laurence Trastour-Isnart also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as our fellow citizens withdraw from their elected representatives, I am confident that we will honour our mission by demonstrating, whatever our differences, that we can unite in the service of the general interest, in order to be at the side of our compatriots. Together we will overcome the disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u152	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u153	We are meeting today to discuss the bill to create a platform for the referral and management of chronic covid-19 patients, presented by Michel Zumkeller as part of the parliamentary niche of the IDU and independent group. Let us recall that, on this subject, the National Assembly has shown reactivity since it dealt with it in an early manner during the health crisis linked to the covid epidemic -19 – you stressed it, Mr rapporteur. Like you, I welcome the motion for a resolution to recognise and deal with the long-term complications of the covid-19, presented in February 2021 by Julien Borowczyk, Patricia Mirallès and all the Members of the majority. I welcome their continued commitment to this issue. The review of this bill provides us with an opportunity to discuss this important public health issue again. It is indeed an essential subject which deserves first of all a quick exercise of definition, in order to clarify what we are discussing collectively behind the common term "long covid". There are two types of patients: those for whom the symptoms of the initial disease will persist between four and twelve weeks and are characterized by slow but real recovery kinetics – this is called "long covid"; and those whose symptoms developed during or after the infection persist for more than 12 weeks and cannot be explained by another diagnosis – this is called post-covid, marked by significant heterogeneity, often fluctuating evolution, very slow improvement and the risks of fixed sequelae. Based on this information, it can be estimated that 1.7 million people, or 25% of those who have been infected, have had or have persistent long covid-like symptoms, and that 700000, or 10% of those infected, have had or have long-term persistent symptoms – more than three months – of post-covid-like symptoms. Of these, it can be estimated that 10% will be in a so-called "complex" situation, due to the direct consequences of the illness itself or their personal situation; It is thus about 70000 people who may need specific care structures to date. People with such symptoms express a real need for care as well as a legitimate demand for recognition. It is a strong concern of the sick, relayed – you have reminded him, Mr. MP – by the various associations that represent them. Because of their number and the variety of symptoms they are experiencing, they represent an important organizational challenge for our health system, which must do its utmost to be able to provide a coordinated and appropriate response to their needs. In terms of care, our constant concern was from the outset to combat medical error, which may have led to the use of inappropriate treatments or even unnecessary hospitalizations. To this end, the Government has taken several measures aimed at ensuring consistent and individualized care pathways to address the diversity of cases of persistent post-covid symptoms. In February 2021, the High Health Authority (HAS) issued recommendations on diagnostic criteria and procedures for the screening and clinical and paraclinical management of adults with prolonged symptoms, using a rapid response device coupled with fact sheets. An update of these recommendations following the evolution of knowledge was published a week ago; A paediatric sheet – as you mentioned, Mr rapporteur – is being prepared and should be published in early 2022. The central element of the departmental recommendations is the establishment of post-covid coordination cells to accompany, inform, guide professionals and patients and coordinate the interventions needed to manage complex post-covid cases in all jurisdictions. A total of 118 coordination cells are currently located throughout the country, providing a significant territorial link in this area. The provision of care developed within this framework is structured into three levels: general practitioners, at the centre of the system, constitute a first recourse; there is then an intermediate level at which functional explorations are carried out; Finally, at the last level, centres offer health and rehabilitation services dedicated to the management of complex patients. Funding for additional needs related to the development of this care offer has been provided by the RHAs through allocations from the Regional Intervention Fund – the well-known RIF – and we are currently exploring possibilities to strengthen support for physiotherapy and RHA activity – follow-up care and rehabilitation. We have also conducted communications with health professionals and the general public, as too few players, no doubt, are aware of these initiatives. New information measures will therefore have to be deployed. We are also continuing the research effort on the subject, as we must show humility and collectively recognize that, while our knowledge has greatly improved on the lasting consequences of covid-19 infection, there are still several areas of shadow to explore. All projects dedicated specifically to persistent forms of covid and selected at national level have already received a budget allocation of EUR 5.5 million, and a new call for projects, dedicated to long covid research projects, has been released this month. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is therefore very active in improving patient care, in training and informing health professionals and the general public, and in advancing research. It is in this context that you have to consider this bill. As you have said, its article 1e r provides for the creation of an online SEO platform allowing patients with persistent post-covid symptoms who wish to be referenced and to share the data so informed with their doctor. The CNAM – Caisse nationale de l'assurance maladie –, in partnership with the All Partners Covid association, is currently funding the creation of an online platform to help patients with persistent covid symptoms to better orient themselves in our health care system. Once a questionnaire has been provided, the patient may either print out his or her answers to submit them to his or her attending physician or share the data directly by electronic means. The platform will be deployed next January. Article 2 of the bill sets out the main principles for the care of patients and the reimbursement of care for persistent post-covid symptoms. Such arrangements are in line with the guidelines adopted by the Government to structure the care path, and I would point out that it will of course not be necessary to declare themselves on the online platform being deployed in order to benefit from full care, which will depend on the complexity of each situation. With regard to the arrangements for reimbursement of care related to persistent symptoms, the joint management of compulsory and supplementary health insurance already provides full coverage to insured persons, without needing to be recognized as suffering from a long-term condition (LDA). Subject to drafting clarification, this provision makes it clear that our social protection system is in a position to respond fully to all those who suffer from long covid, and we can only welcome it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, you have understood this: the Government shares the objectives of the bill, which corresponds to initiatives already in place or in the process of being deployed. The discussions that we are about to have on this occasion will make it possible to recall the importance of the issue of long co-vid for our citizens, but also to inform about the actions that we have collectively undertaken and that we will strengthen in the coming months, so that all those concerned will be taken care of under the best conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u154	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u155	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the extraordinary work done by my colleague Michel Zumkeller, who spent many hours listening to patients with long covids, hearing from various public and private actors and seeking solutions to help those who are suffering in silence today. The pandemic that has affected the world for almost two years still has many unknowns. Little by little, the advances of science protect humanity: these are the actions which we must continue to spread; vaccination, in particular to date, booster and third dose; but also drug treatments, which are increasingly promising. We find that some of those infected with covid-19 develop more or less painful and disabling symptoms. They are no longer positive for covid but remain ill and continue to suffer. The relative novelty of this pathology makes it little taken into account: the patients go to the doctor and undergo a battery of tests but no diagnosis can be established because the medical examinations reveal nothing. These patients leave without an answer; They sometimes question themselves while continuing to suffer. Doctors find themselves deprived because there is no way to relieve their patients, and the difficulty in making a diagnosis considerably complicates their orientation. Long covid can be very disabling. Some suffer from a loss of smell, others find themselves unable to continue their professional activity or, indeed, to make the slightest effort. Dozens of different symptoms have been identified, making it all the more difficult to make a diagnosis. The sick are not financially accompanied; Many cannot return to work and are therefore without income. The lack of resources, recognition, response and care as part of an appropriate care path is in addition to the pain they suffer. Consideration should also be given to the long covid that affects children. You recalled the importance of this, Mr Secretary of State, and the rapporteur included minors in his operative part. When infected, they are often asymptomatic at first, and it is only in a second phase that lasting symptoms appear. The sick are in search of answers, they legitimately want their disease to be recognized and its origin guaranteed, in order to benefit from care. That is why they structure themselves and organize themselves, everywhere in Europe, to be recognised and, in the long run, healed. It was this exceptional mobilization that led Catalonia to adopt a very effective management system. The hearing you have organised, Mr rapporteur, with the Catalan Minister of Health has been very enlightening in this respect. The fact that the rapporteur has collected more than 2500 testimonies in a few days on his website shows the distress of the sick, their sense of abandonment and their very great mobilization. In France, the number of long-term covid patients is estimated at 700000. The problem is not limited to a few isolated cases: it is indeed a matter of public health, which requires the creation of an appropriate and sustainable care path. I believe that we have all met in our constituencies with fellow citizens who have been affected and weakened by this pathology. It is therefore impossible for us to remain insensitive to the distress message they send us. In this connection, I thank you, Mr rapporteur, for the substantive and field work you have done on the subject, so that these patients will finally be given appropriate listening, recognition and care. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Laurence Trastour-Isnart also applauds]] The adoption of this bill will be a first step towards the care of patients with long covid. That is why the IDU and independent group put it on the agenda and strongly supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u156	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u157	It has been more than a century since the French state experienced such a major health crisis as we have been in for more than a year now. For a very long time, the state, the media and public opinion were obsessed with day-to-day management on the day of the crisis; This true health fiasco has been amplified by the unpreparation and lack of anticipation of the Government. Today, epidemic waves continue to follow each other. More than a year and a half after the start of the crisis, we are still in a small-week management, as we saw on the occasion of your big improvisation number with regard to the third dose of vaccine. But the sick are still there. Many have even developed a long-term disease after contracting the virus. We must therefore continue to adapt to this unprecedented situation. Studies are under way to try to understand the reasons for the persistence of certain symptoms, in order to succeed in treating them. According to information from the scientific magazine Epsiloon, the explanation would lean towards the immune trail. But we cannot wait until we have scientific certainty to take care of patients and, as Descartes recommended, we need to define a line of action "by provision". This text, proposed by the IDU-I Group, is therefore particularly welcome. At present, patients are poor, being sent from one interlocutor to another into a health system that is still under pressure. These chronic covid patients are however numerous. Several months after an infection with covid-19, people still suffer from symptoms of the disease: daily life remains disturbed by exhaustion at the least effort, difficulties in concentrating, pain, curvature, headache, loss of taste or smell, loss of memory or confusion or sleep disorders, to name but a few; Nearly 200 symptoms have been identified. Some are particularly disabling and can prevent them from returning to work; A long covid can therefore have significant financial consequences. Three months after diagnosis, one in five adolescents has at least one symptom and one in seven, at least three; The figures, based on a UK study, are comparable for adults. According to WHO, one in ten people would still experience symptoms after 12 months. On October 6, WHO acknowledged the existence of a post-covid syndrome and in the United Kingdom, 1.1 million people reported having the symptoms of a long covid. This syndrome, which we are not familiar with, is developing and is likely to affect millions of people in France. We therefore agree with the desire to organise and plan patient care by creating a monitoring platform and a protocol of action, as provided for in this text. A few nuances need to be made: the planned monitoring system is exclusively numerical. However, digital technology leaves aside all those who do not have access to it, for lack of means, by ill-electronism, or because their place of life is not covered by these technologies. The digital divide affects 17% of the population according to INSEE. Here again, we find that digitality leads to a decline in public service and local outlets. With regard to health data security, the monitoring platform will be digital and will be available on websites and applications. As co-rapporteur of a cyber defence fact-finding mission, I can only alert you once again to these tools. They may seem practical, but they are particularly dangerous if their safety is not assured. There have been numerous leaks of medical data, which constitute potential violations of medical confidentiality. In addition, further consideration should be given to the recognition of covid-19 as a condition that can permanently disrupt the lives of those who suffer from it. Innumerable people contracted it in their workplaces, especially during the first wave where we had so few protections: nursing staff, of course, but also teachers, cashiers, employees of so-called essential services that continued to be opened during confinement, which exposed workers particularly. Public officials have not been more protected by their employer than others. In conclusion, it is not for people to pay in their bodies for the government's lack of confidence. The health crisis of the coronavirus is the failure of the excessive laissez-faire: destruction of the public hospital, inability to anticipate, reduction of costs to the detriment of the quality of the care and working conditions of the staff. The management of this new wave is indicative of the evils rooted in our societies: while the public hospital is exsangued, there is a shortage of staff in all services, everyone is exhausted, we still have to look after the new patients and continue to treat those affected by a long covid. By 2022, it will be necessary to rebuild the public hospital service in order to recreate a serene reception of patients and good working conditions for caregivers, and to create a public drug centre and relocate part of the production to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u158	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u159	The health crisis that continues to hit our country has shown that we are uneven in the face of the covid virus -19. Among those who contract it, some experience severe symptoms, others none, some experience long-term effects, and others do not keep any sequelae. For a while, these lasting symptoms that can be disabling and disturbing remained in the shadows. However, the months that separate us from the beginning of the epidemic have gradually documented the suffering of patients, whether they are chronic fatigue, breathing difficulties or other diverse and varied illnesses. These symptoms require real accompaniment, better management, in short a better consideration by our care system. Indeed, it is estimated that one in ten people affected by the virus develops what is now referred to as long covid, experiencing sometimes very disabling effects for several weeks or even months after the onset of infection. According to INSERM (National Institute of Health and Medical Research), 60% of hospitalized patients suffer from persistent symptoms six months later. A total of 700000 people would thus be affected in France by what it is agreed to name the post-covid. Many patients face skepticism about what they experience painfully, sometimes from members of the medical community, more frequently from their employers. However, the resolution adopted unanimously last February by our colleague Patricia Mirallès was a first step towards symbolic recognition of their ordeal. We must now go further. This is the purpose of the bill presented by our colleague Michel Zumkeller. We share the objective: it is necessary to better identify and accompany people with long covid and post-covid; But we remain dubious about the implementation of its recommendations. The creation of a platform for referencing people with long covid and post-covid goes in the right direction, allowing for better identification of patients, prior to better follow-up. The safeguards surrounding this mechanism will need to be clarified. Furthermore, it would be interesting to link this platform to health insurance. Primary funds, through health brigades, have played a crucial role in reaching out to the population to break the chains of contamination and inform our fellow citizens. Let us rely on these devices. Failing this, there may be a risk of duplication detrimental to the patient's accompaniment. On accompaniment, this text makes it useful to strengthen the care of patients, either by a treating doctor or by a post-covid care unit in a health facility. While regional health agencies have put in place post-covid coordination cells in support of doctors and patients, it appears that this mechanism is still too often overlooked, giving them what is known as medical error. That is why we agree with your proposal to facilitate the referral of patients to the right people in our care system. Beyond this, the Communist deputies defend the idea of a recognition of long and post-covid covids in the ALD, which would allow 100% health care to be taken over by the health insurance. This solution, which has the merit of simplicity while providing financial relief to our citizens, is, however, conditional on regulatory intervention by the Government. To date, nothing has been planned to move forward on the subject. What are the Government's intentions on this specific point? Other complementary projects would require further attention. The recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease should be advanced when the patient has been, by the nature of his work, particularly exposed to the virus. Finally, further research is needed on the treatment of long covid and its causes, which remain unclear in the state of medical knowledge. The Secretary of State insisted on this at the end of his speech, which is a major issue to be addressed. [[Applause on several benches in the IUD-I group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Despite these few reservations, our group will vote for this text and congratulate the UDI-I Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u160	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u161	The bill submitted to us today by our colleague Michel Zumkeller on the management of long covids leaves no one indifferent. We have all been questioned by citizens on this subject. It may also be that our loved ones or ourselves have been or still be victims of persistent symptoms following covid-19 infection. If the research has led to the rapid development of vaccines and if treatments are promising, cases of persistent covid symptoms after the usual cure times are frequently reported to us. We do not have a well-established scientific response or specific treatments to respond to it. A recent study found that, in some cases, the disorders may affect people who are convinced that they have contracted covid without any evidence of contamination. Regardless of the effectiveness of previous contamination, people suffer, sometimes in very disabling proportions, and they should be given the best possible care. In the case of covid infection, the prevalence of long covid symptoms would be in the range of 10-15% and could reach up to 80% for hospitalized patients. Poor management of these symptoms could have significant consequences for the health of patients; Therefore, appropriate management of covid patients should be encouraged at all stages of the disease, including in cases of long covid. This is the subject of the SEO platform proposed by our rapporteur. This platform, whose modalities of operation will be defined by decree, after the advice of the CNIL (National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms), will allow to report post covid symptoms and to retain the orientation adapted according to the protocol already applied by the ARS. It will be open to adults and minors. Studies indicate that young people are highly exposed to long covid: according to one study, they would be 50% symptomatic beyond three months and up to 17% symptomatic beyond one year. In order for care to be tailored to the needs, guidance in a post-covid care unit must be readily available. For this reason, an amendment by the rapporteur in connection with the Government foresees the increase in the capacity of the post-covid care units, with at least one unit per department within six months. Finally, it will be necessary to clarify the conditions for the care of covid-related care. Without presuming conditions under which certain persistent symptoms could be classified as chronic disease in the future, the proposed wording limits the non-use of care by ensuring that the social security liability rate supplemented by mutuals is covered at 100%. Our Group, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, which supported this text at the committee stage, is pleased with the drafting work that has been done for the sitting. This proposal will provide a concrete response to people with persistent covid symptoms by ensuring appropriate care. The 100% coverage will help to avoid the non-use of care, including for our fellow citizens who benefit from complementary health care. Moreover, in the face of this epidemic that we are not yet able to control, the commitment to growth in the capacity of post-covid care units is welcome. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and IDU-I groups]] Consequently, the Dem Group thanks the rapporteur for putting this proposal on the agenda of our House and will vote with satisfaction in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u162	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u163	For many months, covid-19 patients have been suffering from persistent symptoms. Intense fatigue, muscle weakness, acute pain in arms and legs, digestive and intestinal disorders, cardiac disorders, cognitive disorders, neurological disorders, dermatological problems: more than 100 symptoms have been identified by patients since June 2020. These symptoms are indicative of long-term sequelae preventing a return to normal life, whether professional or private. The consequences are such that, several months after contracting covid-19, patients remain exhausted, physically, psychologically but also financially affected. Some are caught in a real medical error, after consulting several doctors and specialists. While the numbers vary greatly and we do not have a successful national study on the subject, all indicators show that many people are affected, regardless of their age. In the case of children, the UK National Bureau of Statistics estimated that out of 500,000 covid-19-positive children, 14.5 per cent of 12-16-year-olds and 12.9 per cent of 2-11-year-olds had at least one symptom five weeks after the infection. Whether they are adults or children, this subject deserves our full attention. I welcome the initiative of our colleague, Michel Zumkeller, at the origin of this proposal; We must accompany and support all patients properly – all the more so as, on this difficult subject, our knowledge remains partial, many questions remain and it is difficult to diagnose a long covid in the absence of an established scientific protocol. The creation of a platform, as proposed in this text, will help answer these questions. In this bill, you refer to the thousands of fellow citizens who have gathered in the Long Covid Action support groups, #afterJ20, #afterJ60 or #afterJ120. I confess that it was with them that I, too, found comfort when I declared a long covid. We need to be aware of this disease and of those patients who suffer from persistent symptoms and do not always feel listened to and followed seriously; They are for a lot of suffering, medical error. Sometimes they live in the misunderstanding of their loved ones or their employer and are denied by some health care professionals who do not consider or have not considered the existence of persistent symptoms. All these patients, women and men, some of whom have been ill since March 2020, must therefore be truly taken into consideration by the public authorities. In June 2020, I tabled a bill to recognize the persistent symptoms of covid-19 and to take care of those affected. In this sense, the creation of a platform specifically dedicated to post-covid patients is a necessity. All persons who wish to do so will be able to refer to themselves as suffering or suffering from persistent symptoms. The digital tool is an asset in the care and accompaniment of people suffering from long covid. This large-scale information base will make it possible to move forward more quickly the research already undertaken on these ill-known post-viral symptoms. We owe it to our fellow citizens. Finally, personalized follow-up will be facilitated by this text, thanks to the coordination of RHAs with local hospitals. These proposals are in the right direction. If many actions have been undertaken, they must be completed. As early as February 2021, our assembly unanimously adopted the resolution of Julien Borowczyk and Patricia Mirallès to recognize and deal with the long-term complications of the covid-19. In line with this resolution, the bill brings a new stone to the building. I welcome this initiative all the more because it was in a trans-partisan spirit that it was proposed. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The Republicans Group will therefore support this bill to create a platform for referencing and caring for chronic covid-19 patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u164	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u165	For almost two years, the covid rhythm of our lives dramatically following its repeated bites. I want to have a thought here for all those sick people and all those families that the covid wounded and bruised. Whatever the age of the patient, each case is potentially serious; The millions of deaths already caused by the disease bear witness to this. However, it would be reducing to adopt a binary attitude by summarising the outcome of the covid to a healing or death. We must never forget all those who have escaped from the covid but who retain deep and lasting sequelae. Of course, they are alive, but their destiny can be upset. These tragic viral stigmas are sometimes rooted in the patient's medical record after passage through resuscitation, intubation, artificial coma. Nevertheless, scars can be less visible without being more bearable. These varied manifestations characterize the long covid. The duty of national representation is to accompany our fellow citizens suffering from this pathology. This entity with multiple symptoms, etiology and physiopathology that is still poorly known, undermines daily life and nibbles autonomy even in compartments of life that seemed to us to be acquired, as it can cause difficulties of concentration, chronic fatigue, shortness of breath, depression, or paralysis. The long covid potentially affects hundreds of thousands of us, including children, most frequently without initial symptoms or no inaugural hospitalization. This lack of hospital care complicates the identification and follow-up of patients. Thus, patients are waging a war against long covid, but they must first perform a battle driven by this diagnostic error. In this day-to-day war, the battlefield of recognition is sinister because it is haunted by the mist of ignorance and sometimes even contempt, frozen by a glacial silence, bogged down in the clay of long time. This battle of screening and recognition, we must win it alongside the sick thanks to the reinforcement of the caregivers. This battle is one of the dignity found by our fellow citizens with long covids whose suffering is still too often ignored. This battle began with the collaboration of Patricia Mirallès in February 2021 when we drafted the resolution on long covid supported by the majority as a whole and voted unanimously. Through the actions of the Government, this law has enabled the supply of weapons and ammunition to combat the disease and improve recognition: the publication of the HAS cards on long-term covid for caregivers, awareness-raising and training of medical and paramedical actors, recommendations for the care of expensive care in ALD, the establishment of a task force dedicated specifically to long-term covids and those suffering from them, the establishment of territorial coordination cells and the establishment of specialized rehabilitation centres. This resolution led to a real awareness and a significant breakthrough in this battle in the service of the sick. However, there was a need for a new, complementary piece of legislation to counter the difficulties of recognition of long covids. [[Smile]] This is how I would like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for coming, such as Marshal Joffre, to hold and strengthen the line against the long covid in support of those who had fought so far. Indeed, your bill aims to create a platform of testimonials, census and guidance, which is a real message of hope for patients and complements the organization already in place. It is essential that each person be able to express himself, obtain a substantiated diagnosis and a recognition because "the hope of healing is already half the cure," as Voltaire pointed out. Therefore, the complementarity between the resolution and the bill, the constant work of patient associations and the training of caregivers will win by providing simplified access to care for all. On the other hand, we should not forget the last battle: that of therapeutic management. This final fight must be waged even as the virus interferes for the fifth time in our health facilities, albeit in a smaller proportion thanks to vaccination but enough to disrupt the establishment of the care units provided by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and implemented by the regional health agencies. The territorial network of these specialized centres is still uneven. The complexity of the disease results in major polymorphism. However, this symptomatological lability requires individualised management and follow-up. This is the purpose of article 2 of this bill, which calls for confirmation of the networking work of the care units initiated by the Government following the resolution. The bill is very much expected by our fellow citizens, and especially by those who suffer from long covid. Our duty is to support this text to confirm the inalienable will of our Assembly to be with the nation in all circumstances. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the IUD-I group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] It is also our responsibility, in this complex fifth wave period, to accompany in conscience all decisions in the direction of prevention, without political partisanism. Prevent contamination by barrier actions; limit the spread of the virus by maintaining our freedoms through the health pass; avoid the circulation of the virus and complications through massive vaccination: it is this virtuous triptych that will stop the progression of the virus, save lives, avoid contamination and thus prevent the occurrence of new cases of long covid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u166	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u167	We have to study the IDU-I group's bill to create a platform for referencing and caring for chronic covid-19 patients. HAS describes long forms of covid -19 as the persistence of "one or more initial symptoms, four weeks after the onset of the disease, [without] any of these symptoms being explained by another diagnosis." According to the latest WHO data, these long forms of covid-19 would affect 10 to 15% of infected people, which is enormous. To date, this represents nearly 11.5 million people in the world, a figure that will increase as a result of the new forms, and 250,000 to 300,000 of our fellow citizens. I say this from the outset: we fully support the objective of recognizing chronic diseases related to covid-19. Thus, as part of the parliamentary niche day of February 18, 2021, the Socialist and related group had tabled a bill by my colleagues Régis Juanico and Christian Hutin establishing a fund to compensate people who had temporary or permanent sequelae and those who had died as a result of their infection with the covid-19. This fund, which was based directly on the operation of the Asbestos Victims Compensation Fund established in 2000, would have made it possible to make full reparation for the damage suffered by these chronic patients and the beneficiaries of the deceased. The Government has rejected it, which we regret. As I said, we support any initiative to promote the recognition of chronic covid patients; That is why we will vote on this bill. However, in its current wording, it contains a number of points which we are somewhat saddened by. First of all, the digital platform for referencing and monitoring patients with long forms of covid-19 that you propose to create in Article 1 seems somewhat inadequate. First, its logic is declarative, leaving out health professionals and patients who would not wish or would not be able to access it. Secondly, this platform would only be digital, leaving aside the French far from the Internet, which, according to INSEE 16,5 % of the population. Thirdly, we believe that such a platform should not be independent of existing sites, but rather should be added to the shared medical file, whose data processing is secure. The security of data is extremely important, since it is a matter of medical secrecy. Article 2 also seems to us to be insufficient, since it does not address the question of the recognition of the long forms of covid as an occupational disease and of the research to be devoted to the causes of long covid, which is nevertheless very important since these are currently unknown, as you have all said before. In short, we deplore the platform's risk of inaccessibility for patients with long forms of covid distant from the digital, its declarative logic, the vagueness of health insurance coverage. These are all limits of the bill put forward by our colleagues in the IDU-I Group. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Despite these shortcomings, which can be corrected, we will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u168	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u169	While we are still not out of the health crisis and the fifth wave of contamination is growing, we are looking at the IUD-I Group's proposal for a law defended by our colleague Michel Zumkeller to create a platform for referencing and caring for chronic covid-19 patients. While most people with covid fortunately do not have long-term and medium-term sequelae, a significant proportion of patients suffer from persistent symptoms several weeks or months after infection. Most of these symptoms manifest themselves as chronic fatigue, difficulty breathing, muscle pain or even cognitive disorders that have a real impact on the lives of those affected. Contrary to what has been said or written recently, these are not imaginary patients. The hearings organised by the rapporteur have allowed us to see this. A recent WHO study indicates that this disease affects 10% of covid patients. In France, this would represent about 400,000 people; That is the magnitude of the phenomenon! However, research on long-term covid is in its infancy, as WHO has recently proposed an initial definition of long-term covid. However, the challenges in terms of prevention, treatment and patient support are considerable. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would therefore like to thank the UDI-I Group for putting the subject of long co-vid on the agenda of our debates through this bill, which I, for my part, have co-signed. It is in line with the resolution to recognize and deal with the long-term complications of the covid-19, presented last February by Julien Borowczyk and Patricia Mirallès on behalf of the three groups of the majority, which our assembly adopted unanimously. We invited the Government to act for research, for the care of the sick and for the recognition of long covid as an occupational disease when its origin justifies it. Since then, a national strategy for treating chronic covid-19 patients has emerged. It has resulted in the dissemination of a list of recommendations to health professionals to assist them in the management and guidance of patients with long covid. We also welcome the creation of a long covid task force attached to the Ministry of Health to coordinate the efforts of health authorities in this area. It must be noted, however, that too many general practitioners, who intervene as a first resort to diagnose and orient people with long covids, are still unaware of the treatment protocols issued by the health authorities. The same applies to the general public, who is not sufficiently aware of the symptoms and consequences of this disease. We can and must therefore make further progress to improve the accompaniment of sick people. The bill contributes to this movement by enriching the work already undertaken by the Government. His article 1e r aims to create a platform to identify and guide patients with long covid in their care journey. This platform will enable us to collect valuable data for research, but also to objectify a reality that is often difficult for those facing it. Article 2 provides for the care and analysis of people with long covids. If we are in favour of this, the current wording of the article does not fully satisfy us, and we will propose with the other two groups of the majority a clarification amendment to clarify the respective roles of health insurance and complementary mutuals in the taking up of these costs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Subject to the adoption of this clarification, as you will understand, the Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote for this text, of which we fully share the ambition, for a better recognition and effective care of people suffering from long-term covid. The text is expected by many of our fellow citizens, and I am pleased that once again the National Assembly is doing a useful job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u170	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u171	First of all, let me thank my colleague Michel Zumkeller for the excellent work that has been done in the service of this great cause of public health. It is estimated that 700000 people would be affected by the long covid. It has been recalled that the suffering of these patients is too often wrong or not at all taken into account. Not only do they experience the symptoms of the disease, but they also feel that they have to justify being ill. This is the result of a lack of knowledge of this very or too recent pathology; no specific care exists for these patients, medical examinations are lacking. All that remains is the patient's listening; It is fundamental and doctors know it well. Despite this suffering, these people are not recognized as long-covid patients. For many, it is impossible to resume professional activity at the same rate as before infection; It is then necessary to deal with illness, misunderstanding and loss of income. These patients can rely only on family solidarity – where it exists. We cannot content ourselves with leaving these families in the greatest disarray. In the National Assembly, the IDU-I group seized the subject on several occasions. We were the first to discuss it, first with a question to the Government by our colleague Michel Zumkeller in September 2020. As of the following month, we tabled this bill. We also supported the motion for a resolution by our colleague Julien Borowczyk, unanimously adopted on 17 February, and the proposal for a law establishing a fund for the compensation of victims of the covid-19 by our colleague Régis Juanico, discussed on 18 February. As early as 24 November 2020, the President of the Republic referred to "the long-term consequences of the virus". In view of the magnitude of the phenomenon, things have been done: the creation of post-covid coordination cells with the ARS, the specific recommendations of the HAS, the creation of a task force attached to the Directorate-General for the provision of care. But that is not enough. There is always a lack of adequate care and a unique place to record and guide patients of long covid. This bill to establish a referral and care platform for chronic covid-19 patients is therefore a major step forward. This platform will enable patients to be recorded first, listened to, and then to identify and study the data to advance research on this pathology, which is still largely unknown. The aim will then be to direct the patients towards a tailored and personalized care path. This bill, as the rapporteur himself says, does not claim to solve everything with a slamming of fingers; Rather, it must be understood as a framework, a first stone, which will bring much to the sick. In fact, I am pleased that some groups have dealt with this by tabling amendments. Already, the examination in committee has allowed an enrichment of the text, which now refers to a decree in the Council of State to determine the modalities of application of the platform, after advice from CNIL in order to meet the obligations relating to the protection of health data. The rapporteur also included minors in the scheme. We welcome this, because children are not spared, even though most of them are asymptomatic at first. Like my colleague Valérie Six, I welcome the cooperation that Michel Zumkeller has built with the Government of Catalonia, which has set up an ambitious scheme. The mobilisation of the sick and the awareness by the Catalan government that there was a real subject of public health made it possible to move forward and provide answers to the sick. They have proven that it is possible to meet this challenge and are now a model in Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] On behalf of the IUD-I Group, I would like to thank my colleague Michel Zumkeller for bringing this text, which has my full support, as it is a new hope for these patients in their fight against the disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u172	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u173	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your comments. Of course, some things are put in place, no one disputes it. The bill aims to promote coordination and listening: paying attention to all those people who are suffering is really the object of our action. I welcome the fine unanimity which has emerged and which confirms the excellent work we have done in committee. This is a very good thing and I believe that everyone who looks at us is very happy to realize that the elected representatives we are are are committed to understanding what they are experiencing. Mrs Six, Mrs Métadier, thank you for your words, and especially thank you to the entire IDU and independent group. This is a subject that we took up with the body more than a year ago, and it was important to put it on the agenda. Without the action of my colleagues in the IUD-I Group, we would not be there; Even if this text is a joint success of all those who have put their hands to it, they have had the initiative. Thank them for that. Mr. Lachaud said we need to adapt. These are important and fair words. This bill is only a first step, and we will have to continue to adapt to this virus and its consequences, because it has already reserved for us and will continue to reserve many surprises for us. Mr Wulfranc spoke of a necessary consideration. Again, this is really the goal; This is what emerged from the various meetings we had more than a year ago, then at the time of the hearings. "Listen to us," we were asked. This platform offers recognition, and it will be very appreciated. Madame de Vaucouleurs, thank you for your involvement. In committee, we planned to rework some aspects of the text: we managed to propose, in good intelligence, amendments that will enrich the text by providing useful clarifications. Mrs Trastour-Isnart, thank you, too, for your commitment. Your bill put the subject first, and more than a year ago, it was not easy. So we all learned things together. The image of the stones is very important: there was a first, a second, a third... We will be able to build a wall against this virus. [[Smile]] Mr. Borowczyk, thank you. You participated in the hearings and thus in the construction of the bill. There are things that we knew, others that we discovered – I am thinking in particular of the long pediatric covid, and all its consequences for families. If it's tricky to stop for treatment, it's even harder to do it to look after a child. I'm not sure I deserved the comparison with Marshal Joffre, but I do accept it! Thank you for your support and commitment, because we need to work together. Mrs. Rabault, thank you for your words too. We are well aware of this, there are still things to be done. Amendment No 4 responds to your concern that the platform would only be digital: it aims to clarify that the platform is accessible "in particular via the Internet". Above all, it is a matter of drawing a framework, and I am confident that all those who have to put it in place will be able to adapt it to include as many people as possible. Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, thank you for your commitment from the beginning, for your words and for your work in committee. We are working effectively, I believe, against a disease that affects many of our fellow citizens. Those who look at us certainly appreciate this first step in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] One more word about democracy. We are all living rather poorly because national representation is not well considered. Beyond our differences, we can find ourselves on a subject of this importance. We thus show our fellow citizens that we are here above all for them, in an attempt to alleviate their suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u174	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u175	I also welcome the unanimity that has been expressed in the general debate and which may be reflected in a vote. With regard to the recognition of covid as an occupational disease, the Government had already put in place a new system: in case of severe respiratory infection, recognition was automatic for healthcare professionals, who were obviously particularly exposed. We do not neglect non-careers, since we have put in place a facilitated recognition procedure, with a single committee and a guide to recommendations for it to ensure a faster and more consistent study of the cases presented to it. Approximately 1500 cases were accepted for the general scheme; That's about a third of the files filed. There are about the same number of cases in the hospital public service. Finally, as we had engaged in the discussions on Mr Borowczyk's motion for a resolution, we will, by the end of the year, have before us the scientific working group which has drawn up the guide to recommendations for the recognition committee, so that it can update it, taking into account the scientific progress that could be made, particularly in the long co-vid. With regard to the creation of a specific ALD, it does not seem to us at this stage either possible or desirable. We do not have specific diagnostic criteria that would allow us to target patients appropriately – the diversity of forms that long covid can take has been highlighted. On the other hand, the most seriously affected patients can already benefit from the recognition of a long-term condition, either that the pathology to which they suffer falls within the scope of an ALD already listed by the ministry, such as pulmonary fibrosis, or that the pathology meets cumulative conditions of severity, duration and cost of treatment, since it is the definition of an ALD. We have issued instructions to health insurance consultants to ensure consistent and responsive treatment of these off-list DAL applications. Since then, more than nine out of ten cases submitted under this framework have been accepted by medical consultants. Finally, for less serious cases, we must remember, to be pleased, that our health care system is very protective and allows the care to be taken care of by the link between compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u176	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u177	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u178	With this amendment, we propose a new wording of Article 1er in order to clarify its operative part and to consolidate it legally. As in committee, it is a matter of not forgetting anyone and speaking to all those who suffer from long covid. It also seems important to us to incorporate, as the rapporteur proposes, the opinion of the CNIL in the definition of how the platform is to be implemented. Because it is a matter of registering certain health data, this notice will ensure the safety and proportionate use of the data. This platform, which will make it possible to record and orient the sick: for those who feel abandoned, it is the promise of an appropriate listening and support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u180	This is a clarification amendment, which proposes a more legally sound wording and also incorporates some of the requests that have been made. I am in favour of that, unless the Government asks us to withdraw it, in which case we will notify.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u182	I do not think, Madam Member, that we should be concerned about the legal soundness of Article 1e r as it is currently drafted. With regard to your second concern, which you refer to in the summary statement of the amendment and which is to remember no one, the wording that you propose here could, contrary to what you wish, restrict the number of operators that can be usefully mobilised for the development and management of the platform: I am thinking of Santé publique France, but there may be others. If I understand your objective correctly, it seems to me that it is better to keep the current drafting of the article, which is more open. That is why I invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u183	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the IDU group, which is independent. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u184	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u185	It tends to rewrite the first two paragraphs of Article 2. As in the previous amendment, it is a matter of ensuring that all those who could be affected by long covid, both minor and major, are taken care of. The aim is also to ensure the creation of post-covid care units in the RHAs throughout the country within six months of the enactment of the law. We cannot wait any longer: we need them to be operational quickly enough. Indeed, people who suffer from the most disabling forms of the disease find themselves without income or solutions: their distress and suffering force us to act urgently. This text gives rise to hopes that the sick will be expected. That is why we need to organise them today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u187	As we said earlier, this text does indeed give rise to great expectations which should not be disappointed. So the important thing is that things get organized quickly. The amendment, which is intended to provide for a period of six months for the creation of care units, therefore seems to me very interesting. That being said, our logic is that of discussion and consensus: I therefore await the opinion of the Secretary of State. What matters for the people who look at us is that the Government is committed to ensuring that they take care of them quickly. If necessary, I will ask for the amendment to be withdrawn, which I would prefer to vote on, because on this text we are seeking unanimity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u189	I am pleased to express the firm commitment of the Government that you wish, Mr. Rapporteur, and you too, Madam Member. It is obvious that we share the objective that you are aiming for through your amendment. I will give you a few details, because your amendment refers to a number of points. First, if the text provides for the treatment of patients registered on the platform, they will also apply to patients who are not registered on the platform. Anyone with persistent symptoms of covid-19 should be treated: this may seem obvious, but it is better to say it. Secondly, the text provides for the care of patients either by their treating physician under a specific care protocol or in a post-covid care unit. We also want to organise coordinated and multidisciplinary care in the city, for which we can also use telemedicine to make the system even more efficient and quick. As far as deadlines are concerned, you want the post-covid care units to be created quite quickly, within six months: of course, we share this objective. You refer the application of this provision to a decree concerning the determination of human and financial means: to the extent that we want to make rapid progress in the deployment of these units, it seems superfluous to us. Indeed, from an operational point of view, relying on an order-in-council could prove counterproductive. Our common ambition is therefore to ensure that the care of patients with long covids is as fast as possible. As I said during the presentation of the text, some things have already been done and instructions have been given to the SRAs. There are already 118 coordination units, although the Government is well aware that the situation in the territory is heterogeneous and needs to be addressed quickly. As with the previous one, I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. As the rapporteur has requested, I repeat that the Government is committed to deploying the care units as quickly as possible: that is what we all want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u190	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u191	Mr Secretary of State, if you assure me that you will go faster than I propose in the amendment, I will withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u192	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1, 2 and 8. Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u193	The last paragraph of Article 2 provides for the management of covid-19-related care and analysis for patients with persistent symptoms. Indeed, the care of people with long covids must be guaranteed, in order to ensure them the best possible accompaniment. The amendment, supported by the LaREM Group as a whole, aims to clarify how the health costs incurred by these patients are to be covered, in particular in order to clarify the respective roles of compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance. It also aims to confirm that beneficiaries of complementary health care will be covered like other patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u194	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u195	The question of the treatment of medical expenses for patients with post-covid has taken us a long time in committee. We were not fully satisfied with the wording, which seemed ambiguous to us. The one we propose to you by these amendments seems to me to be much more concrete for people suffering from this disease. If adopted, they will be guaranteed 100% coverage by sickness insurance and supplementary health insurance, including if they benefit from complementary health insurance. It would be a relief to them, knowing that this provision, as has been said, would not prevent patients with major disorders from being taken care of as part of an ALD. I would therefore like to thank you for voting on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u196	I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u197	Since the recognition of an ALD for all patients with long covid is not possible or even desirable since the duration of the disease is variable, it seemed to us important that care be provided for all; That is the meaning of these amendments that we are proposing collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u198	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u199	While we are in the process of recognizing and taking care of this disease, these amendments are in order. We discussed it in committee, they aim to clarify things so that no one is left on the side of the road. This would be a good signal, so my opinion is very favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u201	These amendments provide useful clarification and the Government's opinion is also very favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u202	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u203	It aims to raise the pledge on which the bill is based.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u205	Very favorable, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u206	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, who asked me for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u207	I would like to explain our vote and to thank you on behalf of my group. Michel Zumkeller was the first, in September 2020, to raise the issue of long covids in this House. It was then followed by many other colleagues on all the benches – it was recalled – and it seems that we are now on the verge of a complementary response for our fellow citizens in this area. Julien Borowczyk recalled this during the general discussion, other actions were carried out. A motion for a resolution has been adopted which, in some respects, is still waiting to be implemented: some people with long covids, who have to take on respiratory care on a very regular basis, are unfortunately insufficiently taken care of by social security. However, it was one of the objects of the resolution. Some 700000 people are said to have this condition in France and need to be cared for. The platform that we will create through this text will allow us to know better, to know better, to identify better, to improve this support and we welcome it. That is why we wanted to open this debate and put the bill on the agenda of our assembly. If it is to find a reality, it will now require a strong will from the Government, Mr. Secretary of State. In order for it to be adopted by the Senate, the centrist Senate group, another group or, why not, the Government will have to put it on the agenda as soon as possible. In any case, since we are forced to react as the epidemic unfolds, we believe it is necessary to improve the knowledge of both the long covid and its other aspects, as well as the consequences and virtues of vaccination. All the groups approved the text, as did the Government, which we thank. I repeat, I hope that it will soon be reviewed by the Senate, so that we can identify and improve as much as possible the follow-up of the dramatic situations we are encountering in our ridings. They concern people in distress who feel that we do not respond sufficiently to their suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u208	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 46 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u210	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Valérie Six and others for the employment of experienced workers until retirement (No 4537, 4691).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u211	Mrs Valérie Six, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u212	We are gathered today to consider a text that is of particular interest to me. This proposal for a law for the employment of experienced workers until retirement is the result of months of work, carried out as part of the mission to inform the employment of experienced workers that I had the honour of chairing and of which our colleagues Didier Martin and Stéphane Viry, whom I salute, were the rapporteurs. The bill is thus part of the trans-party and constructive approach that led to the work of the fact-finding mission, and I would like to thank our colleagues in the Republicans who co-signed it. We were not the first, when the fact-finding mission was launched, to address the issue of senior employment, given that much work had been done in recent years with a view to pension reform. However, I firmly believe that this subject is too broad and too serious not to be dealt with alone. At the crossroads of employment and pensions, it brings together many issues related to the rules of our vocational training, our occupational health, our labour law, our social contributions, our pension system, our unemployment insurance system. This subject is all the more important as it is structuring for our society as a whole. Just as important efforts are being made for youth employment, the employment of older people must not be a blind spot in our policies. In this respect, opposing youth employment and senior employment would make no sense. Each of these audiences faces its own difficulties in the labour market and deserves help. I am convinced – and these were also the conclusions of our information mission – that, as there is for "one young, one solution", there is "for a senior, solutions"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u214	... or rather, should I speak of "experienced worker", so unfortunately the term "older charms" prejudices and negative stereotypes. In fact, I wanted to rename my bill in the light of that observation. The bill, which I am presenting to you today, is deliberately concise and more focused on the employability of seniors than on the deployment of a new pension system, however legitimate it may be. The economic, social and political context in which it operates would not allow it to be considered calmly, and that is not my objective. Employability is the driving force behind this proposal. I do not, of course, claim to present you with a comprehensive panel of all the solutions in this area. Rather, I have designed this bill as a "toolbox" available to everyone, so that they can seize this issue. Many other arrangements than those I am going to present to you, such as trade and enterprise negotiations on the retention of employees over 50 years of age, easier access to vocational training or progressive retirement, can be usefully mobilised to improve the employment rate of older workers. Some of them are the subject of another bill that I tabled at the same time. Several cardinal principles form the basis of this bill. First of all, incitement rather than punishment. I firmly believe that the exploitation of good business practices is far more effective than coercion, especially for the smallest of them. Initially, article 1 of my bill contained two provisions: a 50+ label, which is based on a voluntary approach by companies, and a "age dynamics" index, which was to apply only to enterprises with at least 500 employees and was not subject to any sanction. I sincerely regret that the index was deleted in committee, because we know that it has proved its worth in terms of professional equality and the fight against discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u216	Of course, it would not have been based on the same criteria, as the measurement of pay differentials is far less relevant for experienced workers than for women and men. However, it would have been usefully constructed on indicators relating to the rate of training, the rate of employment or internal mobility. The label is inspired, as is often the case with social innovation, by initiatives on the ground. The success of the 45+ label set up by the South Val-de-Marnais employment pool committee is proof that the recognition of the virtuous practices of companies plays a real incentive role. In order to measure precisely the scope and effects of the index, I proposed in Article 2 that the index be evaluated by submitting a report to Parliament within three years. I regret once again that this simple request for an evaluation of a mechanism, which, I would remind you, is not subject to any sanction, has not been upheld by the majority. Second cardinal principle: prevention and anticipation of needs. This is one of the strong conclusions of the work of the information mission: one must think of keeping in employment very upstream, around the issues of vocational training and prevention. The mid-career of any worker, at about 45 years of age, is a decisive step in the apprehension of sustainable retention in employment. We know that, after a certain age, employees give up training, victims of what is called the "horizontal effect". Unfortunately, and even more so today than yesterday, the life of a skill is shorter and shorter. That is why we must make every effort to prevent the obsolescence of skills. It is the ambition of Article 3, which introduces a reinforced professional interview, coupled with the mid-career medical examination, in order to establish a complete diagnosis of the employee's employment situation. The hearings conducted in the context of the examination of the bill's proposal led me to propose a rewriting of this article, in order to give full consideration to the professional development adviser in this process. Indeed, the mid-career medical examination, introduced by law to strengthen occupational health prevention in August 2021, must be an opportunity for the employee to prepare for the continuation of his career. The challenges of protecting medical confidentiality obviously make it impossible, during the same interview, to make a diagnosis both of the employee's health and of his professional prospects. I am convinced that this interview would be all the more fruitful as it would take place outside the company. I therefore distinguish him well from the professional interview, which must be held every two years with the employer. Only the professional development adviser, who is still too unknown today, seems to me to be able to carry out this strengthened interview. Unfortunately, the new wording of the article adopted in committee falls far short of this objective, since it simply proposes that the employer should present to the employee the arrangements for access to counselling in professional development. We missed an opportunity to make this service better known to employees – I hope we will return to it. Last founding principle: accompaniment. Article 4 – perhaps the one that kept me most at heart – made the specific accompaniment of job seekers over 50 years of age an explicit objective of the job centre missions. I know that, over the past ten years, Pôle Emploi has given up a public support approach, in favour of an individualised approach. I consider this to be a serious mistake. The proliferation of initiatives across France – of course I am thinking of PEPS – full employment for seniors – in Tourcoing, not far from my constituency, in the AGIRC-ARRCO Employment Spaces or in the Senior Talents operation led by the Association pour l'emploi des cadres (APEC) – reinforced my conviction that the rate of return to employment of older workers was much better when they received specific support. The situation of experienced older workers should not be confused with that of long-term jobseekers, and it is precisely in order to prevent them from falling into long-term unemployment that experienced workers should be dealt with quickly. All successful local initiatives were waiting for a strong signal from us. Your majority decided otherwise, by deleting this article in committee. Article 5 intended to restore cumulation of employment and retirement. I am aware that this subject is less consensual than the others, but it was very clear from the work of our mission, as well as from the hearings that I conducted in the context of the bill, that the restoration of contributions generating new pension rights was a powerful incentive to maintain employment. It is a pity that the majority did not have a more ambitious approach to this proposal to focus more on the transition from employment to retirement. Finally, since it is important for me to address this subject under the prism of employability, I would suggest that you again reflect on the anticipation of retirement, thanks to an amendment which tends to extend the notice period for an employee to apply for retirement. The more the employee informs his employer upstream, the better he will be able to organise his continued employment in good conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Our collective awareness of the difficulties experienced workers face in employment must be translated into action. I do not hide from you my disappointment at the content of this bill, as it appears to the committee. I had built this text in a consensual and constructive approach, which I thought was shared. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case. I regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u217	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u218	I am pleased to be here with you today to raise a subject that I, like the rapporteur, are dear to me, that of the employment of older people. First of all, Madam rapporteur, I would like to thank you for the work that has been done in connection with the parliamentary fact-finding mission that you chaired, along with Members Didier Martin and Stéphane Viry. We had the opportunity to discuss your findings together when your report was submitted to the ministry in October, and it is clear that we find ourselves on this common priority even if we have not been able to agree on all of your ambitions – we will talk about it later. I would also like to thank the UDI-I Group for placing this bill on the agenda of its parliamentary niche. The employment of experienced workers until retirement has been the subject of renewed interest in recent years, following various publications, such as the report of the fact-finding mission of the Social Affairs Committee of the Senate, in September 2019, or the Bellon-Mériaux-Soussan report, submitted to the Government in January 2020. Their conclusions converge towards an unrelenting balance sheet. The employment rate of the 55-64 year-olds remains insufficient in our country and places France far behind its European neighbours. We are particularly lagging behind for those over 60, for whom our employment rate is, like that of Belgium, just above the 30% mark, where it reaches 60% in Germany and 46% on average in the European Union. This is certainly not a new situation, but we can only deplore it. We need to look at its causes, which are multiple and well-known. I'll go back to the top five. This is first of all the vision that our society has of experienced workers, who would be less productive workers and very costly for their employers. Then there is the low use made in our country of the progressive retirement mechanism, which makes it possible to anticipate the exit from the world of work for those who choose it, by reducing their working time at the end of their careers. The negotiations on the work of older people, too embryonic, are also at stake, although many branches, it is true, have negotiated agreements including measures to stimulate it. There is also very long-term unemployment, which is widespread among those over 55 years of age, since half of all jobseekers over 55 years of age remain unemployed twenty-four months or more. Finally, the lack of access to continuing training, combined with an initial level of training for jobseekers over 50 years of age below average, certainly contributes to the difficulties our experienced workers face in fully integrating into our society. We could consider that the employment of older people will remain structurally weak in France, but, as you, the rapporteur, I cannot resign myself, as this situation penalizes both our society and our economy. It obviously penalises companies which, by separating themselves from their older workers, see a part of their human capital disappear and an experience forged over the years. It also weakens the intergenerational link, while we should collectively value the complementarity between young people and older people. Finally, it penalises, more broadly, the cohesion of society, by making older people the variable for adjusting employment policies and by fuelling inequalities. So, beyond the analysis, we need to take concrete action. Whatever the arbitrations that will be rendered about pensions – you mentioned them in watermarks, in your remarks – the French work longer, including at constant law. This is reflected in the longer duration of activity we have seen for several years, both in France and in our neighbours. It is therefore up to us to take this subject in arms-to-body, in a country where almost one in two people are no longer active at the time of retirement. In this context, unfortunately, an essential lever has been insufficiently mobilized for years: health at work. I am aware of the importance of effective and relevant occupational medicine in maintaining employment, and I am able to tell you that, thanks to an unprecedented commitment from the social partners, the Parliament and the Government, France has made considerable progress in recent months. Here I would like to thank the MPs Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean, who have defended the occupational health bill, but also all the MPs, as this bill has met with a very favourable reception both here and in the Senate. Following the national interprofessional agreement of 10 December 2020 and the Act of 2 August 2021 to strengthen occupational health prevention, specific measures were adopted. I will return to two of them: the installation of cells dedicated to the prevention of occupational disintegration, in the prevention and health services at work, i.e. the maintenance of employment; the creation of a mid-career visit for all employees aged 45 to check the adequacy of the workplace and the health status of each employee. Rather than repairing, anticipating and avoiding health problems that might lead an employee to no longer be able to work. We also need to mobilise the leverage of the specific training of senior audiences. Because knowledge, techniques and needs are changing, it is not only before we enter working life that our citizens must be trained, but throughout their careers, in the context of continuing training, that I referred to earlier. Here too, the Government has acted since 2017, notably with the strengthening of the personal training account (PCF), used in 2020 by more than 1 million employees, thus showing our collective ambition to facilitate the acquisition of new skills throughout the career. The mobilization of the new skill investment plan and the creation of the collective transitions scheme will also help long-term unemployed seniors, of whom I was talking earlier. Improving working conditions, increasing access to training, easing the transition arrangements between work and retirement, and combating age discrimination are all ways in which we want to remove barriers to the employment of older people. Madam rapporteur, this 360-degree approach, which is also reflected in the proposals outlined by the information mission you have chaired, is essential to accompany ageing at work and to enhance the skills of those you rightly prefer to call experienced workers. On the basis of this observation, come, after you, to your bill. If, in the Government's view, its initial version suffers from problems of methodology and substance, it must be noted that the text adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs seems to be much more balanced and operational – even if we differ on this point, let me tell you and tell the House why, in my view, this is the case. As regards the method, first of all, it seems to me essential to involve the social partners fully in any reflection aimed at removing obstacles to the employment of older people. I know, for trading with you, that you are not hostile to this method. It is important to respect it. This issue also involves addressing all the determinants of senior employment, including the parameters of our retirement system. However, as the President of the Republic has indicated, the conditions are not now in place to open such a construction site, as you pointed out in your opening remarks. Any overall transformation should therefore be referred to broader reflection, in close consultation with the social partners. As far as the substance is concerned, let me go back to the five sections of your bill, on which we have nevertheless found common ground. Article 1 provides for the creation of a 50+ label aimed at identifying virtuous enterprises in the employment of employees aged 50 and over. We believe that this measure can be effective in sending a positive signal to the most committed companies and in effectively directing senior job seekers to these recruiters. Conversely, even if you continue to defend it, the creation of a Dynamic Index of Ages poses difficulties in principle – to which legal obligation does it meet? – and application – what indicators should be chosen and what penalties should be imposed in case of non-compliance? This justifies joining the committee on the need to exclude this option. With regard to article 3, the Government was satisfied with the balance found during the examination in committee. The current writing allows us to rely on the professional interview, carried out every two years, to prepare for the continuation of the career and to promote an essential device, which I thank you for having defended very well, but which remains little mobilized, the professional development council – CEP – which we will probably talk about during our debates. I welcome the fact that you insisted in your intervention and in your report on the link between the mid-career interview of section 3 and the mid-career medical interview provided for in the Act of 2 August 2021 to strengthen occupational health, resulting from a proposal by your colleagues Carole Grandjean and Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq. Article 4 of the original version of your text was intended to incorporate the specific accompanying measures for jobseekers over 50 years of age into the multi-annual tripartite agreement between the United States and the Employment Centre. I can hear your disappointment, but I will reply once again that the Government considers that the commission was right to delete the article, because the decline in public support is not a matter of law and we must not preempt the discussions that will guide the negotiation of the future tripartite convention. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. Article 5, finally, opened up the possibility for insured persons in full-time employment to acquire new pension rights on the basis of their contributions. The Government does not wish this article to be reinstated, deleted in committee, for the reason I mentioned earlier: it is not possible to depart, on this subject, from an implementation of the overall transformation of our pension system, in particular because the cost of such a measure is significant – it is around 4 billion euros. We cannot decide this on Friday evening, as part of a bill, however brilliantly defended it may be. For all these reasons, the Government will support your bill as adopted in the Social Affairs Committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u219	That is to say, all undressed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u220	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... by asserting forcefully and decisively that the retention of seniors is a clear priority for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u221	In the general debate, Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u222	The question of the employment of experienced workers is essential, both for them and for our country. In 2019, the employment rate for 55-64-year-olds was only 53%. Yet being an experienced worker means having recognized skills and experience. It is unacceptable for an experienced worker to be afraid of losing his job because he will undoubtedly have less chance of finding one and the likelihood of long-term unemployment is greater for him than for younger employees. This age-related discrimination in employment is intolerable! Furthermore, as we have seen during the work of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, women are even more affected by the problem and often find themselves in vulnerable situations. Indeed, the criteria of age and sex are combined as specific brakes. Almost a third of women between the ages of 50 and 64 are part-time with precarious contracts, as has been revealed in several studies, such as the recent INSEE study on the participation rate of this population. Women find it all the more difficult because the positions held do not correspond to their level of training and skills. Many efforts have been made in recent years to improve youth employment. This is necessary, but we must not forget the experienced workers, and we must not leave anyone behind. The work on this subject is all the more necessary since the future of our pension system can only be achieved by extending working hours. We must deliver a speech of truth to the French and French. Yes, to save our pensions, we will have to work longer, but with respect for the work provided and the experience gained! I thank the rapporteur, Valérie Six, and the UDI-I Group for putting this vital subject on the agenda of this House. The measures proposed in this text are taken from a fact-finding mission chaired by you, the rapporteur, and led by our colleagues Stéphane Viry and Didier Martin. I welcome their excellent report, the conclusions of which were adopted unanimously by the Committee on Social Affairs. Despite this, the majority decided to sabotage this bill in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u223	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u224	It has thus removed the indicators of the employment of experienced workers in enterprises with more than 500 employees, the integration of the employment of experienced workers into the UNEDIC Convention aimed at improving their specific care by Employment Centre, or the strengthening of the cumulation of employment and retirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u225	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u226	The only measures maintained or added by the majority are display.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u227	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u228	It is very sad that the majority decided to empty a bill of this importance from its substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u229	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u230	It called for respect for social dialogue. However, when it was necessary to twist the hands of the social partners to renegotiate the UNEDIC Convention in 2018, there was no question of respecting this dialogue; When it was necessary to initiate the reform of unemployment insurance either. It has been said in the committee that the Government and the majority have been fighting against the unemployment of experienced workers for the past five years. But then, why is unemployment in the 50+ age group the only one to experience such an increase, according to the October 2021 employment index? We need to move from speech to action. The 50+ label, proposed by Article 1, is an interesting measure. It will make it possible to recognise companies that are promoting the retention of experienced workers and to promote good practices, as well as mid-career maintenance to take stock of the second part of their working life, particularly in the field of vocational training. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Unfortunately, these two measures, the only ones actually maintained by the majority, will not be enough to really change the situation of experienced workers. Madam rapporteur, the Republican Group will support your bill and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u231	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u232	With this text, it's a different pair of sleeves than for the previous one. He's kicking in the rough. The employment of older people is indeed a crucial subject, which deserves a widely renewed political ambition. The fact-finding mission of the Committee on Social Affairs has shown that this is a dead end to public policies, while the situation of so-called experienced workers has gradually weakened in the labour market. When they are not in employment, more than two thirds of them are affected by long-term unemployment, while less access to training than other workers. In France, in 2017, as was recalled, the employment rate for this age group was lower than the other EU countries. However, this weakness must be relativized, as it is largely due to the fact that the legal retirement age is set at 62 years in our country. This is where part of the problem lies and its solution. No one can ignore that the unenviable situation of older workers is due to the successive reforms carried out in recent years to delay retirement: the abolition of early retirement schemes in the public sector in the 2000s, the gradual reduction of the statutory retirement age to 62 years, with the 2010 reform and the extension of the contribution period necessary to have a full pension with the 2014 reform. These reforms have been imposed without anticipating the potential effects of age-retirement measures on the shift in unemployment or precariousness. The current situation is a double penalty: employees have to work longer and at the same time companies are increasingly reluctant to hire older people, mistakenly regarded as less productive, as has been said. In this context, who can believe that the introduction of 64-year-old retirement, envisaged by the majority, will allow seniors to find and retain a job? In addition to its unfair and regressive nature, such a measure would be tantamount to denying the painful character of certain occupations, which use bodies well before the benefit of retirement. In view of these findings, what remains of the text, in particular the introduction of a label for exemplary companies in the employment of seniors, is more of the distribution of good points than anything else. On the other hand, we were opposed to Article 5 of the original text, which was deleted in committee, which was intended to increase employment-retirement cumulation. This system runs counter to the sharing of working time and encourages workers to work ever longer at the expense of their health, sometimes to supplement a low pension. He would inevitably turn against the unemployed seniors. Other proposals would have deserved to be discussed. We are thinking, for example, of the re-establishment of compulsory corporate bargaining on the theme of senior employment, which the majority has abolished under the 2017 labour ordinances; career development measures providing for the possibility of early departure for persons in difficult employment; measures to facilitate access to training by deploring the CPF for employees over the age of 45. These few proposals, absent from this text, would have made it possible to improve the situation of older people in the labour market in practice. The GDR Group will therefore maintain an unfavourable vote on the whole bill, which has been emptied of most of its substance in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u233	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u234	Today we are addressing the issue of senior employment. This is an essential issue because the barriers to the retention and return to employment of older workers are varied and, over 50 years, many employees feel suspended. Their particular difficulties in returning to employment result in a much higher share of the long-term unemployed among seniors: in 2018, 60% of the 55 years or more who had been unemployed for at least one year. In view of this, the Government and the majority have mobilized since the beginning of the quinquennium in favour of the employment of experienced workers. Indeed, the 2020 law on strengthening inclusion in employment through economic activity, adopted at the initiative of my colleague Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, aims to promote the reintegration into the labour market of older people who are struggling to find employment in a common-law enterprise. It introduces the CDI inclusion which allows employees aged 57 and over who have particular social and occupational difficulties to be hired by a structure of integration by economic activity on an open-ended contract. Similarly, in order to effectively combat the unemployment of older workers and ensure their retention in employment, it is essential to prevent job disintegration. That's what our majority did by voting the law to strengthen occupational health prevention, from my colleagues Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean. This law, which comes directly from the will of the social partners enshrined in a national interprofessional agreement, creates, inter alia, units for the prevention of occupational disintegration in occupational health services. It also provides for a mid-career medical examination at the age of 45 to assess, for example, whether the employee's position is still suitable for his or her state of health. In addition, through the plan to reduce recruitment tensions, the Government is investing €1.4 billion in the deployment of specific and personalised support mechanisms for long-term job seekers, whose experienced workers are, I would remind you, an important part. This plan, launched in September 2021, includes concrete measures to combat long-term unemployment, such as access for long-term job seekers to a personalized diagnosis, the payment of aid of EUR 8000 for the hiring of these workers on a professional contract, or support for periods of immersion in a company in order to discover a trade or a sector of activity. As a result, Pôle Emploi undertook to contact all long-term jobseekers by the end of 2021 in order to direct them towards the new measures in this plan. We are well aware of the difficulties faced by older workers and, as you can see, we have not waited to act. However, if we are to continue this effort for the employment of experienced workers, we must, on the one hand, evaluate the mechanisms put in place to monitor their effectiveness and ensure that they fulfil their objectives in order to improve them, if necessary, and, on the other hand, continue to deploy concrete measures in the framework of ambitious and comprehensive reforms, in consultation with the social partners. Madam rapporteur, your text proposes piecemeal and limited measures, chosen from among the thirty-four proposals of the report which you have produced following your work with Didier Martin and Stéphane Viry, without prior consultation with the social partners, even though the issue of the employment of seniors is on the agenda of the social agenda between the latter and the Government. If we want the various stakeholders to take ownership of the subject, we need to involve them. Therefore, while the Republic on the move supports the objectives of this bill, we believe that neither the method of its elaboration nor its content will enable it to meet the major challenge of employing experienced workers. This important subject deserves to be addressed in the context of a comprehensive reform that cannot be separated from pension reform. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] If we cannot act structurally within the framework of your text, however, we would like to adopt simple and operational measures in order, in particular, to improve the information of senior employees on their right to be accompanied by a career counsellor or on the arrangements for transitioning employment to retirement. We also want to value the good practices of companies towards older employees and to evaluate Pôle emploi's experiments in their favour with a view to their sustainability. While I welcome the fact that this important subject is the subject of our discussions today, I reiterate our desire that it be addressed, in view of its importance, as part of a concerted, structural reform that provides the means to achieve its objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u235	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u236	This bill is the result of the work done by the senior employment information mission of which our colleague Valérie Six was president, and I would like to commend his excellent work, both in the information report and in the bill before us. Apart from each other's positions, I believe that we are all meeting around the same observation: that of the long-term marginalization of older people in the labour market. The employment rate of seniors remains too low in our country despite public policies and despite the recovery plan. These workers are rich! Rich in know-how and years of experience that we need to learn to value better. At a time when mass unemployment is close to hundreds of thousands of vacant jobs, we need more than ever to train workers, to increase them in skills. Experienced workers form part of the equation: they possess skills which they are quite capable of transmitting to young people who enter the labour market and, more generally, to all workers undergoing vocational retraining or who wish to become more educated. We often say so in the Chamber, and I repeat it forcefully: we are convinced that no one is unemployable, that everyone has something to give, that he is capable of doing and undertaking. It is up to us, as legislators, to put in place a system capable of directing these people towards the right training, towards the right job offer, by valuing the skills acquired, by raising the awareness of employers, by creating an ecosystem conducive to their employment. At the age of 50 or 55, when a worker has the misfortune of experiencing a period of unemployment, sometimes even for the first time, he has every chance of staying in this situation for a long time. For many, it's a trauma. When the work has rhythmed your daily life for decades, when you thrive on it, when you are proud of the work done and the skills developed, when you assimilate the work you provide to your role in society, if you lose your job and any hope of finding one, all of your benchmarks collapse. When we look forward to the recovery, we must collectively ask ourselves who benefits from the 6% growth. For, obviously, economic recovery has had no short-term effect on the integration of older people into employment. The bill provides elements for a response. The first two articles introduce a 50+ label, to recognise and publicise the best practices of companies in maintaining employment or recruiting employees aged 50 and over. These articles also create a Dynamic Index of Ages based on criteria such as the rate of training, the employment rate or the internal mobility of employees over 50 years of age in the enterprise. This is not a wage comparison. Article 3 introduces a professional interview called 45+ maintenance. This moment will better prepare the second part of the employee's career by taking stock of his/her skills, his/her work and any changes in his/her occupation. Article 4 integrates the specific support of jobseekers over 50 years of age into the multi-annual tripartite agreement, in order to develop the many local initiatives that have achieved successful results in this field. Article 5 allows workers in cumulative employment-retirement to create new rights on the basis of their professional activity. Many groups expressed concern about the lack of awareness and use of the job-retirement cumulation scheme: according to the DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – only 3.4% of pensioners would use it. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] This was the content of the draft law in its original version, a version deeply distorted in committee by the majority with three deletion amendments, three rewrites of articles and one inserted article. That is to say, unfortunately, the text has nothing in common with the tremendous work done by our rapporteur. We sincerely regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u237	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u238	The bill we are considering today is intended to encourage the retention and return to employment of those commonly referred to as seniors, i.e. experienced workers 50 years of age and older. It is from a point of view that we all share. While unemployment figures are the best we have ever seen in more than 10 years, the employment rate of older people remains far too low: barely more than 50% in 2019, one of the lowest in Europe, even though the employment rate of older people, like that of women, has grown historically in recent years, particularly since the 1990s. The majority, along with the Government, took up the issue during the legislature. The skills investment plan, for example, is a specific and personalised scheme aimed at accompanying long-term job seekers whose most important part is experienced workers. Last year, we also created the open-ended inclusion contract, which allows employees aged 57 and over to benefit from personalized follow-up until retirement. Of course, these are not miracle solutions, as the task is immense. However, all proposed initiatives in this area must be carefully considered. They must also be the subject of genuine consultation with the social partners, otherwise they will remain in vain. The text proposes incentives for companies to address the issue of retention and access to employment for older people. However, if the proposed devices appear virtuous in theory, their effectiveness does not appear to be guaranteed. The introduction of a 50+ label to promote good practices in recruitment, career development and prevention of job disintegration seems interesting to us, even though CSR policies – corporate social responsibility – already provide for them in a different form. We voted in favour of it in committee, in order to encourage pro-active companies in the employment of older people. Creating a Dynamic Index of Ages, however, seems untimely for several reasons. On the one hand, this index is modelled on that of occupational equality between women and men; It does not seem consistent to us to put these two initiatives on the same level. On the other hand, it is redundant with the index of diversity created in January 2021, one of which specifically targets seniors. Furthermore, the structural age disparities between the sectors of activity limit the relevance of the scheme: for example, the construction sector and the information technology sector cannot be put on the same footing. In addition, if new rights for workers in cumulative employment-retirement situations are expected, this cannot be offset by a comprehensive reform of the pension system. That is the position that I was defending as the rapporteur of the bill establishing a universal pension system almost two years ago, and that I reiterated in the report I submitted to the Government on modest pensions last May. On the other hand, the cost of such a provision is not negligible, as it amounts to almost EUR 3 billion. This further justifies including it in a comprehensive reform, accompanied by a genuine impact assessment. I continue to believe that we need to work on a set of measures to make the transition from full-time to part-time retirement more flexible and progressive. Such a transition would be useful to our economy, which has a drastic need for experienced workers, for the transmission of knowledge between the generations, for our reflections on the financing of the pension system, and very useful to all our compatriots who are living badly a sudden, total and definitive transition to retirement. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] The amendment, adopted during the committee discussion, which aims to strengthen information on progressive retirement arrangements at mid-career maintenance, is in the right direction, as it is based on professional counselling. The Group of the European People's Party (MODEM) and related democrats will support this mechanism and, more broadly, the version of the text which emerged from its consideration last week in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u239	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u240	This afternoon we are looking at the IDU and self-employed group's proposal for a law on the employment of experienced workers until retirement, which is being defended by our colleague Valérie Six. It is on our agenda a few weeks after the conclusions of the fact-finding mission on the employment of older people, chaired by the rapporteur, were presented to the Committee on Social Affairs. The text therefore incorporates some of the recommendations thus made in order to enhance the value of virtuous enterprises, to better support employees in the second part of their career and to improve the transition from working life to retirement. Indeed, the employment rate of workers aged 55-64 in France is one of the lowest in Europe, reaching 53%, compared with an average of 60% in the European Union and 71% in Germany. Seniors are also more exposed to the risks of underemployment and job disintegration than others. We therefore share the ambition of this bill and thank the UDI-I Group for putting this issue on the agenda on its parliamentary niche day. First of all, I would point out that our majority did not wait for your report to be published, or for this bill to be presented, to take measures to maintain and restore the employment of experienced workers. Of course, I am thinking of the law on strengthening inclusion in employment through economic activity, which we adopted a year ago. In particular, we have created the CDI inclusion, in order to help older people who are far from employment to reintegrate into the labour market through the integration structures through economic activity. I am also thinking of the law to strengthen occupational health prevention, defended by Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq and Carole Grandjean. It introduces a mid-career medical examination, which will be used in particular to assess the risk of occupational disintegration and to make employees aware of the issues of ageing at work, as the risk of occupational accidents increases with age. Finally, I am thinking of the Skills Investment Plan, introduced in 2018 and recently supplemented by a specific component aimed at reducing tensions in the field of recruitment. Although more can still be done, we do not have to be ashamed of the record of our majority in terms of senior employment. I come to the bill before us. The Social Affairs Committee has considerably reduced its scope by deleting most of the articles it contained. I want to make it clear that the Group of the European People's Party does not express any substantive opposition to the measures it contains. We believe, however, that this is neither the right vehicle nor the right time to apply most of the proposed provisions. It is not possible to address the issue of the employment of older people without in-depth consultation with the social partners. Negotiations are under way, and we do not wish to pre-empt the outcome of the social dialogue. Similarly, the financial consequences of certain provisions, of which we also share the objective, prevent them from voting in the context of this bill. We are, for example, in favour of Article 5, which provides for the creation of rights for contributions paid by workers in cumulative employment-retirement situations. However, it is not possible to support the long-term cost of this measure for basic schemes, estimated at EUR 2.4 billion, without at the same time leading to a more comprehensive reform of the pension system. During the committee review, however, we voted in favour of the creation of a 50+ label, in order to value virtuous companies in terms of senior employment. Similarly, we supported two amendments to address the second part of the career and the possibility of a gradual retirement during the professional interview following the employee's forty-fifth birthday. It is essential to better adapt working conditions and pace to the needs of older people, in order to prevent the risk of inactivity. Our group will maintain this position at the sitting, and will therefore vote for this text as a result of the examination in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u241	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u242	The purpose of this bill is to improve the access, retention and return to employment of experienced workers, i.e. persons between the ages of 55 and 64. The members of the Socialist and related group obviously share this ambition. Improving the employment rate of these workers was already one of the five Europe 2020 targets set by 2000 in the Lisbon agenda. But the comparison with our European colleagues and friends shows that we are very late: the employment rate of seniors in France is 53.8%, compared with an average of 60.2% in the European Union and 72% in our German neighbours – almost 20 points higher than in our own country. Our employment rate of so-called experienced workers – according to the expression used in the text – also hides strong inequalities. The first concerns women, whose employment rate was 51% in 2019, compared with 55.4% for men. The second relates to access to vocational training: only 35% of 55-64 year olds have received at least one training during the last 12 months, whereas the rate is twice as high for the other age groups. The third inequality concerns the duration of unemployment of experienced workers, 2.3 times longer on average than for the rest of the working population. Like you, the rapporteur, this leads us to question the reasons for our failure compared to other European countries. To analyse the problem, we observed the situation at home, since it is always interesting to look at what is happening in our neighbours. For example, as you mentioned, the Belgian equivalent of Pôle Emploi has developed a specific programme to develop the digital skills of experienced workers. In fact, they sometimes juggle with digital technology less well than younger employees, which can be a barrier to employment. In Germany, the government and the social partners have agreed to take binding measures to adapt working conditions and promote the health of experienced workers. However, the binding dimension is absent from the text. We have voted on the previous bill for this niche day, and we will do the same with the following motion for a resolution, however, we regret that in this text the application of the schemes depends on the goodwill of the employers. Of course, incentives must always be given priority, but when it is not enough, it is sometimes necessary to go further. Article 1 creates a label that promotes employers' good practices in the employment of experienced workers, which is very good, but it does not provide for any sanctions against bad practices. Article 3 enriches the professional interview that follows the employee's forty-fifth year of time dedicated to the preparation of the second part of the career. But how can we act on this aspect, when we know that the rate of access to vocational training for employees aged 55-64 is twice that of other age groups? We regret that the text does not provide for more incentives in this area. Article 4 was interesting because it planned to include the issue of specific support for jobseekers over 50 years of age in the tripartite agreement between the State, UNEDIC and Pôle Emploi. Mr Secretary of State, we do not understand why your majority deleted it during the examination in committee. Article 4 must be re-established, which was in good standing, in order to achieve the objective. Finally, Article 5a provides for an extension of the interview on pension rights to a point dedicated to access to progressive retirement, which is also a good method. But it does not call into question this mechanism, whereas the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions has called into question its effectiveness. In my opinion, it is useful to think about it and to conduct an experiment. We will therefore abstain. However, we share the objective and find it very interesting to discuss it in the Chamber; That goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u243	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u244	The bill by our colleague Valérie Six is nothing more than the translation of some of the most important measures in the report of the fact-finding mission of which she was president and of which Stéphane Viry and Didier Martin were co-rapporteurs. Since our colleague Didier Martin had participated in this work, we expected the presidential majority to give the report a rather enthusiastic welcome. This was the case, since Catherine Fabre, spokesman for the La République group, has expressed all the good that she thought of the work accomplished. On the other hand, when it came to examining our colleague's bill, there was no longer any measure that you could see as being thanks to. As soon as a text doesn't come from you, it's bad. Let us take the example of the index that Article 1 tended to create. On 15 September, during the examination of the report of the fact-finding mission to the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Fabre told us: "With regard to discriminatory bias, everything begins with the measure. In this respect, the benefits of the index on occupational equality call for the introduction of a ''senior index''. But it's the same index you didn't want to hear about when you were included in an opposition bill. As soon as a measure does not come from you, you refuse it. And you pretend to be open and work with others! Still in the Committee on Social Affairs on 17 November, so only two months later, you tell us: "The Group of the European People's Party on the move considers that the proposal for such an index, far from being mature, is not admissible. He proposed that the reference to it in Article 1 should be deleted. » Our colleagues in the MODEM Group are showing the same contradictions overall. On 15 September, Philippe Vigier told us: "On behalf of my group, I want to say to the President and the rapporteurs of the fact-finding mission that their work is of great quality: this shows that Parliament is able to deal with extremely serious issues. It's beautiful. However, Nicolas Turquois, a member of the same group, declared himself on 17 November "a little less enthusiastic about the measures of the bill", raising objections: they would be untimely, redundant, some could not give rise to "effective implementation" and would lack coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u245	It's a matter of method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u246	Admit that the schizophrenia of "at the same time" is difficult to admit for those who are not adherents of it. In the same group, you say one thing and then its exact opposite. Everything has to come from you. We take note of this – the voters too. When it comes to voting on a report, a fortiori when one of the rapporteurs comes from your home, it is a remarkable job. But when you are presented with a bill that takes back the content of it, you find all the reasons for the world to reject it. There is much to bet that if that same text, those same articles, those same measures, from the same report, were defended by a Member of the majority – one of yours – you would applaud. That's the reality. All speakers recalled the diagnosis on the employment of seniors. All of us deplore the long-term marginalization they face in the labour market. All of us have denounced the fact that they do not seem to benefit from the recovery. So what are we waiting for to move on to concrete actions, to move from findings to actions? [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] The examination in the Committee on Social Affairs consisted, for the majority of the Presidents, in making a profound denaturation of our colleague's bill. This process has certainly become usual under this legislature, but it is always very disconcerting, since it is neither more nor less a matter of substantially altering the substance of a text and of having it adopted in a version which is totally beyond its author, to the point that in many cases it does not want it itself. You have emptied the text of all its content, to the point that we wonder whether we should vote on it or not. We regret the behaviour of this majority on a text that should have reached a consensus, as its subject prevails in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u247	The general discussion is closed. Mrs Valérie Six, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u248	First of all, I would like to thank all colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs for unanimously adopting the report of the fact-finding mission on the employment of experienced workers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u249	The report but not the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u250	...which shows well, that this subject is important to each of us and that we were right to deal with it. That is why I am pleased that we are here today to introduce the bill. In the eyes of our European neighbours, we are not good students. That is also why we must act quickly and give us resources. I would like to reply to the speakers and explain that if this bill was chosen to be included in our parliamentary niche, it is because, after the report, I wanted us to have a toolbox that can be applied quickly – certainly, the timetable is not obvious. It was very important not to enter into a broader process of pension reform, which had in any case been postponed by the Government. We knew, therefore, that we would not return to this matter during the legislature. I wanted to dissociate the issue of the employability of experienced workers, the only one discussed here, from that of pension reform. I believe that the Government has understood the reason for the bill and I hope that we will find common ground. If we have presented it, it is above all to prevent people from falling into long-term unemployment, even though we know that many of those who are unemployed at these advanced ages unfortunately find themselves in this situation. Our goal is to ensure that they are taken care of very quickly, and that they do not fall into unemployment at those ages. This is the priority of the bill. It is not inconceivable to examine a text on the employability of experienced workers, while negotiations are under way in parallel. This is also the case with the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future: we are currently evaluating it while negotiations are already under way. I do not find this argument convincing enough to consider not working on a bill like this. Mr Secretary of State, you also said that you were not in favour of the index of the age pyramid, wondering about the indicators to be used. But it was well stated in the bill that they would be drawn up "in accordance with procedures and a methodology defined by decree"; So it was up to the Government to choose. I cannot be blamed for not introducing precise indicators into the text while I leave it to the Government to choose them! As the bill states, it is the value of the label: it is a matter of working on the flow of experienced workers. To prevent them from becoming unemployed, the aim is to change them, to ensure that they remain in a company, that they progress and that they train in it. Training and internal mobility were the main criteria for mobility. I thank the Members of the Republican Group for their support, in particular Laurence Trastour-Isnart, who highlighted the situation of women, a key feature of our information report. I like the right points, Mr. Wulfranc, and I don't like sanctions! It is a matter of principle: it is simpler to proceed in this way. Besides, I am not the Government: I do not apply sanctions, I give good points. This is also not the right time for the negotiations that you would like to conduct. Do not blame me for these negotiations, I repeat that I am not the Government; I'm making a proposal! As I explained earlier, these negotiations can take place in parallel with the development of a toolbox, which is no more than that. For each senior, there are solutions; Each has its own path and must be able to find a solution in the labour market or training. Mrs Fabre, on behalf of the LaREM Group, you stressed the difference between long-term job seekers and experienced workers. I won't go back to what I said earlier. I fully agree, and I was even the first to vote for the long-term job seekers, the long-term unemployed zero-territories or occupational health laws. But for me, that is not enough: the experienced worker component also counts, both are complementary. Furthermore, it is legitimate for Parliament to initiate initiatives; It is our role as parliamentarians. You have planned to evaluate the law for the freedom to choose its professional future; The social partners are still working on this assessment, but I do not think it is incompatible. As for my colleagues in the IDU group, they are real supporters! They understood the message I sent them. I thank them very much for helping me to return to the text as I had presented it. Nicolas Turquois, I would like to tell you that the index is not inspired by specifics. You have spoken of penitibility and of certain trades, such as construction, in which it could not be applied: on the contrary, it is precisely in the trades where it is already well known that it is important to apply it. This is why Article 3 provides for mid-career visits and professional maintenance; That's why the index and the labels matter. For companies that are well-known that trades generate penitibility, the latter must be taken into account by the indicators established by decree. This is relevant for this type of enterprise, almost more so than for others, because training will have a particular role to play. I find it a pity not to go any further on the professional development adviser, on which the State has worked for a long time, particularly in the framework of the law for the freedom to choose his professional future. He is not well known and must be put forward in vocational training. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, spoke of the CDI inclusion: it is a very good measure, but it concerns a very specific audience. I do not question what has already been done, but it is not enough. The proof is that older people's unemployment is still important. The bill complements it; we need a complementary toolbox. In response to Valérie Rabault, I would like to welcome the European initiatives to support job seekers, which have built on our initiative. I am not in favour of sanctions: in the area of professional equality, what has been done has worked without sanctions. You have announced an abstention; However, you are in favour of the text. Maybe I can get you to change your mind by the end of his examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u251	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u252	I just wanted to say to the rapporteur, who wanted to say one word to each speaker, that this debate is a way of moving attitudes on the substance. I understand that you are quite disappointed that the committee has changed your text and that I support this last version, but in substance, by tabling the bill, you are changing the mindset by putting the subject on the table. It is the vocation of the parliamentarian that you are. When you do this, you act in accordance with the commitment to which your mandate corresponds, like all the elected members of this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u253	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill. Several of you are asking me about the possibility of extending the afternoon sitting. This will only be possible if we move quickly on to what we cannot determine at this time, given the number of amendments to be considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u254	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 14. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u255	It is intended to delete paragraph 6 on the issue of the label. It is an amendment of precision: it is superfétoire to specify that the label will be issued by the Regional Directorate of Economy, Employment, Labour and Solidarity (DREETS), in so far as the order provided for in paragraph 7 is sufficient to define the arrangements for granting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u256	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u257	Indeed, the paragraph referred to provided that the 50+ label, referred to in Article 1, would be issued by the Regional Director of Economy, Employment and Solidarity. But as the rapporteur has been brilliantly pointed out, this is a measure that is more of a regulatory concern. That is why the amendment seeks to delete paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u258	On Amendments Nos 8, 6, 9 and 10, I am seized by the IDU Group and independent of them of a request for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u259	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 7 and 15. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u260	It aims to restore the Dynamic Index of Ages removed by the Commission. On the basis of the occupational equality index, it provides that, in enterprises with at least 500 employees, the employer publishes annual indicators on the employment of employees over 50 years of age and on the measures taken to promote the retention of employees. The criteria chosen will be defined by decree, but may be: the training rate, the employment rate, internal mobility or turnover. It would not be appropriate to retain the wage gap criterion for experienced workers. This index is supported by numerous reports, such as the Bellon-Mériaux-Soussan report, as well as by the National Association of Human Resources Directors (ANDRH), as it sheds light on the good practices of some virtuous companies and proves to be an effective tool for managing human resources. The aim of the index is to change minds and encourage the right inclusive reflexes of companies in an incentive approach; it shall not be subject to any penalty regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u261	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u262	It aims to restore the Dynamic Index of Ages, deleted in commission. On the basis of the occupational equality index, it provides that, in enterprises with at least 500 employees, the employer publishes annual employment indicators for workers over 50 years of age. These indicators could be: training rate, employment rate, internal mobility, or turnover. Let us recall in this respect the ambivalence of the position of the majority group. During the Committee's consideration of the report on the employment of experienced workers, we are told: "In this respect, the benefits of the index on occupational equality call for the establishment of a "senior index". The same majority, however, rejects this proposal on the grounds that it is not mature when it is included in an opposition bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let us put aside the political postures, because the situation of the elderly is serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u263	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u264	[[The rapporteur agreed.]] I understand your position, Madam rapporteur. Let us be clear, I am very comfortable on the subject and I have always indicated that I am not in favour of this index – the rapporteur can testify to this. By multiplying them, things will become illegible and probably counterproductive for the first indexes, particularly that of professional equality between women and men. You are inspired by this last index and that is why I told you that the situation is not comparable. Indeed, the legislation on equality between women and men, which dates back to 1972, is very earlier and contains binding measures. Moreover, with regard to the employment of older people, it is more complicated to find measurable indicators – although some of them may be identified – and this is not without risks, especially in those sectors where the basis of the age pyramid is necessarily wider: it would therefore be necessary to make sectoral subdivisions because it would not be possible to pursue a single policy. While the gender equality index allows for cross-sectionality between sectors of activity, it would be much more complicated with an index linked to the age pyramid. This would force us, as I said, to place ourselves at the level of the industry. You can imagine the level of complexity! That is why I am not in favour of your amendment, knowing that I do not wish to multiply the indexes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u265	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 8 and 16, to re-establish Article 2, deleted by the committee. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u266	For the sake of consistency with my wish to maintain the Dynamic Index of Ages, it aims to restore Article 2, which provides for its evaluation. A Government report will assess the effectiveness of the index in terms of the employability of experienced workers, as well as their image with hiring employers. Since the index is not binding, since it is not accompanied by sanctions, the report will be a means of measuring the extent to which the problem of experienced workers is taken into account by French companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u267	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u268	It is intended to restore Article 2 to its original wording, since, as I said, the committee and the parliamentary majority have undressed the text. A report will assess the effectiveness of the indicators in the Dynamic Age Index. Evaluation of public policies should be automatic: too often we vote laws without any visibility on their implementation. The adoption of this amendment would ensure an evaluation of the scheme. We would ensure that it has an impact on the employment of workers over 50 years of age, or, conversely, that it is inoperative, so that we should revisit it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u269	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u270	Unfavorable opinion. My position is consistent: if we had restored the index to the previous article, this amendment would make sense. The requested report concerns indicators that national representation, in rejecting the last two amendments, has just asked the Government not to establish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u271	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 8 and 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u272	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 11 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u273	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 6 and 17. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u274	This overall drafting amendment aims to clarify the nature of the enhanced mid-career maintenance offered to the employee, which must be distinguished from professional maintenance. In fact, this interview is essentially preventive, which is why it is coupled with the mid-career medical examination, introduced by the law to strengthen health prevention at work of 2 August 2021, which, in the absence of a branch agreement, takes place during the calendar year of the worker's forty-fifth anniversary. The new interview differs from the professional interview that takes place every two years in that it is a true mid-career diagnosis, carried out with a professional development advisor outside the company. In order to guarantee medical confidentiality, it does not take place at the same time as the medical examination: it is essential that the employee can disclose the health information that concerns him or her, only if he or she so wishes. The role of the physician must be differentiated from that of the professional development adviser. The latter's role in supporting employees is thus clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u275	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u276	It aims to clarify the nature of the maintenance of persons aged 45 and over, which, together with the mid-career medical examination, would enable the employee to make a point of his career development. It is preventive in nature, in complementarity with the medical examination, without constituting a medical examination, taking into account, in particular, the need to protect health data. We cannot work the same way at 50 years of age, than at 20 years of age: this interview seems indispensable to us, because it goes in the direction of a greater appreciation of the wealth that constitutes the experience and skills of workers over 50 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u277	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u278	Request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable. You know the CEP, the rapporteur, as well as Mrs Fabre, and you have already mentioned it, as well as the law of 5 September 2018, with great clarity. This is a real innovation. Although professional development counselling has existed since 2015, the novelty has been to make it available to active employees and to enable them to make direct requests. I believe in this device – I prefer, like you, the idea of good point and spontaneity. You have to play the card of this tool: it is available and it is up to employees to seize it. They can also decide to benefit from it before 45 years, or after. This dynamic must continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u279	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 6 and 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u280	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 11 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u281	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 12, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u282	Article 3 introduces the question of the second part of a career as one of the subjects which the employer and the employee must address during the professional interview. This provision contributes to the retention of workers experienced in employment, since the maintenance provides them with career paths, such as adapting their skills to new business challenges, securing their career paths or providing information on access to professional counselling. However, in its current wording, the article allows this type of exchange between the employer and the employee only at the time of the interview following the employee's forty-fifth birthday, a restriction which is irrelevant, insofar as each employee is likely to develop projects for the second part of his/her career, at a different age, depending on his/her career or individual situation. The dialogue on this subject should be made available at each professional interview after the employee's 45th birthday, so that this tool remains accessible to those who would need more time to mature their professional project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u284	Your amendment proposes to address the second part of the career with the employer, during the professional interviews following the employee's forty-fifth birthday. I am against it, not on the merits, but because the method you propose is not appropriate. Certainly – I agree with you entirely on this point – the management of the second part of the career must be addressed throughout the life of an employee, but the maintenance of Article 3 has a preventive dimension: that is why it is coupled with the medical examination. This is the result of the Act to strengthen occupational health prevention, the aim of which is to anticipate health conditions at work. Therefore, it seems appropriate – and we have just mentioned the difficult jobs – to be able to envisage conversion, training, or at least internal mobility within the company. The provisions on the employability of older people aim to keep older people in employment, in the company. It is therefore logical that the mid-career medical examination should be accompanied by an interview, which is a privileged moment and a complete diagnosis, carried out by a professional development adviser. So it's different from what you're proposing, because the goal is to organize a second part of your career.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u286	I call on Mrs de Vaucouleurs to withdraw her amendment, which is probably also in line with the rapporteur's state of mind, and I will not go back to the arguments she has put forward. In substance, information on the CEP is mandatory during any professional interview. However, if they are all redundant, they will lose value – on this point, we share the same opinion with the rapporteur and I. I have no doubt that this is also your goal, Madame de Vaucouleurs. However, if I understand your logic, it seems counterproductive to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u287	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u288	It aims to promote the use of professional counselling, which has been the subject of special attention by the Government since the deployment of operators dedicated specifically to the support of the occupied assets at the beginning of 2020. It is therefore a matter of continuing this dynamic by bringing the existence of this system to the knowledge of a broad public among employees. The CEP is a particularly valuable tool for experienced workers, who can benefit from free and personalized support, and is an undeniable asset in developing the consolidation of a professional project for the second part of the career. The purpose of this amendment is to promote institutional communication, inviting younger employees to anticipate their career development by facilitating access to the CEP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u290	I fully understand the stakes you are raising and your willingness to strengthen the communication on the CEP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u291	It is true that many reports, including the 2018 report of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC), highlight the timid development of the CEP; We need to make him better known. Moreover, it represents an innovative and effective lever to address the second part of the career on which the bill intends to build. However, I doubt the relevance of this amendment because it is already satisfied with the law in force. Indeed, the last paragraph of article L. 6111-6 of the Labour Code, introduced by the law for the freedom to choose its professional future of 2018, specifies that the bodies responsible for implementing the council in professional evolution "ensure the direct information of persons on the modalities of access to this council and on its content, in accordance with procedures defined by regulation. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u293	I am not resisting the pleasure of advertising the CEP in this House. First of all, Mrs de Vaucouleurs, I thank you for looking for ways to ensure better communication on the CEP, as is also being done by the rapporteur. On the one hand, I would like to draw on the future information report of the law assessment mission for the freedom to choose its professional future, including Catherine Fabre, who was one of the rapporteurs of the bill, and Gérard Cherpion are two of the rapporteurs. This document will provide us with more information in the coming months. On the other hand, I understand your idea, but you are entrusting the State with the task of ensuring the publicity of the CEP. For my part, I believe it is up to companies and actors on the ground to ensure that it is disseminated. We are not on the right track to serve your project. Then, as I am also passionate about this subject, I looked at all the publications available: those of France's competences relating to counselling in professional development and those online on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration, which are easily accessible. Quite frankly, honourable Member, important documentation is available; I brought it in to share it with you if you wish, even if I know you know it. It's very clear, we have the opportunity to find out fairly well. I invite you to withdraw your amendment, pending the conclusions of the work of Mrs Fabre and Mr Cherpion and taking into account the existing documentation. Although it can be considered honourable that 2 million people have benefited from a CEP, for the entire labour force, we can do better. I have therefore taken advantage of your amendment to communicate on professional development advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u294	[[Smile]] Thank you for the advertising page; Don't worry, we won't charge her. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u295	It is above all an appeal amendment. Nevertheless, organizing a general public communication makes sense; It would not replace the operators' work but would, in a complementary way, reach people who do not seek information. Making public communication is also part of the "go towards". I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u296	I have before me four amendments, Nos 21, 22, 9 and 18, which may be subject to a joint debate, aimed at re-establishing Article 4 deleted by the committee. Amendments Nos 9 and 18 are identical. Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendments Nos 21 and 22, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u297	I am presenting Amendment No 21 on behalf of the Republic on the move. It aims to add a new mission to the Employment Centre, which would consist of experimenting with local initiatives which could, for example, concern more specifically experienced workers. At present, Pôle Emploi offers jobseekers follow-up paths adapted to the specificities and needs of each individual, responding to a highly individualised logic which takes into account multiple factors depending on the degree of distance from the person's employment. In order to meet the same objective of vocational training and reintegration, in particular of older workers, we consider it appropriate to foresee, in the continuity of the tasks currently carried out by Pôle Emploi, the launching of innovative experiments in specific employment areas for these workers, in connection with enterprises, in particular enterprises (very small enterprises) and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises). Amendment No 22 seeks to ask the Government to submit to Parliament a report listing the activities carried out by Pôle Emploi for the benefit of experienced workers. The aim is to draw up an overall picture of all the schemes implemented by Pôle Emploi for these workers and to identify innovative local experiments and initiatives. The aim is to assess its effectiveness and to make it possible to disseminate it more widely, possibly to provide for their generalisation throughout the local employment offices. We will need this information to define the objectives of the return-to-employment policies of experienced employees, particularly in the context of the negotiations of the multi-annual tripartite agreement between the State, UNEDIC and Pôle Emploi. Finally, this report will provide up-to-date statistical data on the number of jobseekers over 50 years of age receiving employment services. During the examination in committee, we referred to the means needed to identify the experiments and to enable Pôle emploi to carry out a strategic reflection on senior employees; The two amendments are intended to address these needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u298	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u299	As my colleagues have already said, Article 4, which I wish to re-establish in its original version, was intended to enable Pôle Emploi to identify all local initiatives for the benefit of experienced workers, to assess their effectiveness and to ensure the dissemination of the most relevant measures. On the ground, it has been found that ecosystems, including employment support structures, businesses and business clubs, make it possible to launch initiatives; It's very effective. I really regret that local programmes are not recognised at national level for testing. Formalizing things would make it possible to move them forward. It is said that Pôle Emploi does not accompany the public according to age, while conventions are signed with local missions and work is carried out in good intelligence. Why could it not also be driven with local structures working with experienced job seekers? This measure had been welcomed very favourably by Pôle Emploi, which felt that the care of experienced workers should be adapted to the territory rather than deployed uniformly at national level. The purpose of this article was to formalize and recognize ecosystems and local initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u300	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u301	It is intended to restore Article 4, which has been deleted by the majority in committee, which we regret. The aim of this article is to enable Pôle Emploi to identify all local initiatives for the benefit of experienced workers, to assess their effectiveness and to ensure the dissemination of the most relevant measures. There was therefore no reason to delete it. This measure is of common sense as it involves drawing on what works best at the local level and proposing it at the national level. One wonders why you deleted it; It's only because it's not from you. I take this opportunity to criticize again the majority's method of distorting the entire text, rather than enriching, rejecting or amending it. In short, you make sure that he escapes completely from his author and this, against his will. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for this amendment, which would make it possible to disseminate widely the local arrangements that work, so that everyone can draw on them for the benefit of the inclusion of seniors in employment. Working together also means accepting what comes from the other; You were just reminding him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u303	You have seen, I have supporters, especially in the majority, whom I would like to thank. Catherine Fabre worked with me on the subject even if our opinions diverge. I am embarrassed because I find myself in a very complex situation: I would like Article 4 to be reinstated and if I vote against Amendment No 21, when you are in the majority, I would personally feel that I am not accompanying the senior public seeking employment. I have been working on this subject for six months in the National Assembly and for much longer at the local level. So I'm stuck. That is why, in my personal capacity, I regret to express a favourable opinion on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fabre, because my Amendment No 9 will not be adopted. You understand the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u304	That's very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u305	On the other hand, I express an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 22 because it would be inconsistent for me to support it while my amendment to entrust a new task to Pôle Emploi will be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u306	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u307	I call on Mrs Fabre to withdraw Amendment No 21; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. I have a favourable opinion on Amendment No 22 and an unfavourable opinion on identical Amendments Nos 9 and 18. With regard to the rapporteur's wish for Article 4 to be reinstated, I explained earlier the reasons why there was no need to clarify these elements in the tripartite convention. However, the current rule of law does not prevent commitments to a type of public from being made during tripartite negotiations, under article L. 5312-3 of the Labour Code. It is already possible to launch experiments; They exist, you have cited examples. During your presentation of the text, you referred to APEC. It launched Operation Talents Seniors, which operates without the need to sign a tripartite agreement. I want to point out that when I was a Member of Parliament, I was the sponsor and accompanist of a resident of my constituency, a 60-year-old Lommois, a long-term unemployed person who is now a payroll manager. You know that my job was to professionally accompany people; I have therefore done so with all the more interest and commitment. Beyond my testimony – I have a thought for Pascal Rémy that I was referring to at the moment – the operation works. I am in favour of Amendment No 22. Indeed, actions for the benefit of older jobseekers furthest from the labour market already exist. I went to Argenteuil's Employment Centre with MP Fiona Lazaar. We worked with three long-term job seekers in this case, Myriam, Djamila and Sarah, and we found that the situation could progress. I am in favour of the fact that the national representative wishes to take up the matter, asking for an assessment of the situation, in the same spirit as the one on the CEP that I mentioned. Indeed, it will be a basis for identifying the best practices you subscribe to and it will also stimulate Pôle emploi. The rapporteur, I say to you in full transparency and with great benevolence: I have the opportunity to see Jean Bassères and his teams regularly in order to work on the subject of the employment of seniors, included in my ministerial portfolio, and he has not explicitly requested that such a provision be stipulated in the tripartite agreement. They must be given the opportunity to conduct these experiments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u308	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u309	I would like to ask my colleagues about these amendments and this article. We know that each and every one of us is confronted, in his territory, with the problem of the employment of older people. Amendment No 21, which provides for the setting up of experiments, enriches the article as originally proposed by Valérie Six, such as a hand stretched by Mrs Fabre. Mr Secretary of State, you greeted earlier the work of these specialists in the employment of seniors, Valérie Six and Catherine Fabre, the first of whom presided over an information mission, one of which was the deputy of the Vosges Stéphane Viry, the second being the rapporteur of the assessment mission of the 2018 law for the freedom to choose his professional future, alongside, in particular, Gérard Cherpion, another Member of Parliament for the Vosges – a land decisively conducive to such reflections! That they are my constituency neighbours does not change the fact that we are lucky enough to have in the Chamber Members who have worked on the subject, who are aware of the problem of the employment of seniors. These colleagues tell us that it would be desirable to launch an experiment because intelligence is expressed at the local level. The employment offices in each territory, which are familiar with local issues, should be able to bring together the various actors to set up structural projects. Let us trust Valérie Six and Catherine Fabre, colleagues who have been working on this issue since the beginning of the legislature, and let us vote together on Amendment No 21. We need experiments, it is also our role to allow the launch of new projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u310	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u311	The Secretary of State has just informed us that experiments at Pôle Emploi were under way in Argenteuil and elsewhere. To the extent that Pôle Emploi has the opportunity to deploy such initiatives, which are relevant at local level, with real levers and considerable room for manoeuvre on the ground, my amendment is therefore pleased to withdraw it. On the other hand, the request for a report provided for in my amendment No 22 brings, I believe, real added value. Such a document will enable us to identify and evaluate all the experiments in order to draw on them in order to build a general policy at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u312	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u313	After the trans-partisan and constructive work we have done on the fact-finding mission, I deeply regret that you are withdrawing your amendment, simply because, when we went to the field, as part of the fact-finding mission, to observe the experiments, we saw the importance of these arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u314	We are taking up Amendment No 21!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u315	It is important to know that for this support of experienced job seekers – but not necessarily long-term –, Pôle emploi is a cohort based on its files and works with local structures, companies or training organisations, with a view to integrating this public. This is indeed a joint work with Pôle Emploi since the job seekers are from its files.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u316	I have noted that Amendment No 21 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u317	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 19, aimed at re-establishing Article 5 deleted by the committee. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u318	Article 5 of the draft law repealed Article L. 161-22-1 A of the Social Security Code and thus opened up the possibility for insured persons in cumulative employment-retirement to acquire new pension rights on the basis of their contributions paid in order to facilitate the transition from employment to retirement. The possibility of creating new pension rights is a solution to overcome certain demographic difficulties that can be faced by some of the busy professions, including doctors – but this is of course only one example. The creative nature of the contributions paid should also make the system of cumulation and retirement more attractive, with a relatively small number of people using it today. Indeed, it concerned in 2017, according to data from the DREES, 482000 persons, i.e. 3.4% of pensioners. As the promotion of cumulation and retirement is the subject of an extremely broad consensus, it is proposed to re-establish Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u319	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u320	By this amendment, it is a matter of re-establishing Article 5 which has been deleted by the majority in committee – once again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u321	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u322	In this way, we aim to enhance employment-retirement cumulation by allowing insured persons to set up new entitlements on the basis of contributions paid during this period of activity. In committee, almost all groups agreed on the importance and effectiveness of the cumulation/retirement scheme. However, everyone also expressed regret that he was not being asked to do so. We consider that Article 5 would increase the visibility and value of this mechanism. That is why we invite you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u323	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u324	Mr Turquois, present here, is the author, together with Lionel Causse, of a report on small pensions in which they had estimated this measure at about 2.4 billion euros. As I said at the time of the presentation of the text earlier, this figure would reach 4 billion if supplementary pensions were to be taken into account. The opinion is therefore of course unfavourable, regardless of the commitment of the Members present here on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u325	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u326	This measure may seem fair if one assumes that a work involves contributions, which themselves open up rights. However, it cannot be applied in isolation without measuring all the consequences. These are of a short-term financial nature, as the Secretary of State has just said, but I believe it is also necessary to include this issue in a broader, global reflection on the transition between the period worked and the retirement period, on the aims of a professional career.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u327	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u328	I find it regrettable that this article was deleted in committee. And since, after all, there is a parliamentary shuttle, I want to defend the idea that job-retirement cumulation is healthy in itself, even though I know that it can hit certain sensitivities, especially on the left. Among our fellow citizens who wish to be hired, some may encounter the problem of age. When the theoretical limit is set at 62 years, a head of a company who wants to project can feel perfectly disturbed, embarrassed or at least think that a new employee of 59 years of age is not the future. But he might very well need him because of some of his skills – by the way, I liked the "experienced workers" formula used by our rapporteur. But this worker may be useful to him for only five years to develop a project. I therefore consider it desirable to improve access to this system. I hope that our Assembly will consider this possibility. In any case, if the text were adopted today – which I very much hope and which, I understood, could happen – it would then pass under the caudine forks of the Senate and then return to the National Assembly. In any case, it would seem regrettable to me to rule out this possibility today. Moreover, I do not know under what conditions the deletion of Article 5 has been voted on in committee. I would add that this deletion seems to me to be contrary to the overall philosophy of the majority, because the fact of allowing people who wish to do so to work corresponds, I believe, to the project which the President of the Republic has tried to defend. We should think about it because it would be a shame to rule out this path, which has been approved in the report on the employment of experienced workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u329	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 10 and 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u330	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 11 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u331	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 5 and 20. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u332	By this appeal amendment, which has already been tabled in committee, I propose to increase the length of notice that an employee must take in order to apply for retirement. Currently set at two months for a seniority of two years or more, one month for a seniority of between six months and two years and a period fixed by the collective agreement for a seniority of less than six months, this notice would be increased to six months, three months and one month respectively. This extension of the period of notice is not intended to penalise the employee but, on the contrary, to enable him to benefit from an adjustment of his working conditions by sufficiently warning his employer of his willingness to retire. The extension of these deadlines is part of the approach of this bill, which aims to better anticipate the trajectories of employees in order to improve their employability throughout their careers. This provision is also included in Bill No. 4541, which presents a broader set of solutions to improve the employment rate of experienced workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u333	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u334	We support the rapporteur's proposal and this appeal amendment, which aims to increase the length of the employee's notice to apply for retirement. That's what everyone can wish for. It is of course not a question of penalising the employee by delaying the retirement date, but simply of being consistent with the logic of the text of anticipating, as early as possible, the career paths of employees in order to improve their employability in the long term. Better anticipation would help to respond to employers' reluctance to recruit workers over the age of 50. This measure, which would allow them to anticipate the transition of their employees to retirement in a much more fluid way, would therefore benefit everyone. Let's try to do everything we can in favour of seniors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u336	I would like to remind the rapporteur that, from a brief point of view – I know for myself having had to deal with retirements, like others in this House – the employer can modulate the notice period by mutual agreement with the employee, including when notice is given at the employee's initiative. The proposed provisions therefore do not seem to me to meet your objective: I fear rather than pushing the employee to report very upstream of his retirement potential – while he is currently quite free to keep this information for him – they only lead to his identification as wanting to leave the company, which could have the opposite effect to the one you are looking for. I therefore issue a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u337	Colleagues, it's twenty o'clock. We need to consider an amendment on this text and then a motion for a resolution. Would you like to extend the session?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u338	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u339	[[Murmurs on various benches]] So we stop there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u340	All that remains to be done is to adopt the amendment aimed at lifting the pledge provided for in Article 6 to finish the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u341	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1074.u342	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the proposed law for the employment of experienced workers until retirement; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to recognise the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq. The meeting is adjourned.
