ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u1	The next item is the second reading of the proposal for a law to modernise the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation (No. 3934, 4150).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u2	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u3	We are meeting this morning to consider, at second reading, the proposed legislation to modernize the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation. More than two years after it was tabled in the Senate office on March 15, 2019, you will finally be able to adopt it definitively in a few moments. I would like to thank Senator Dominique Verien, who is listening to us from the public gallery because she has been at the initiative of this text – thank you, senator, for your commitment. I would also like to acknowledge the work of the rapporteurs, Jean-Pierre Leleux and Sabine Drexler, who succeeded each other in the Senate, and Béatrice Descamps in the Assembly. When we talk about heritage in this House, there may be differences in approach, but we often come together. I think it's because we're all very attached to it. France is 44,000 historical monuments and more than 24,000 parks and gardens, spread throughout the country. Every Frenchman has a castle, a church, a historic building close to his home. Our heritage is sometimes fragile or attacked; It is therefore up to us to protect it, to restore it, to value it, and that is really the meaning of my action in the Ministry of Culture. As early as September last year, I introduced a sharp increase in appropriations in the finance bill, complemented by an ambitious stimulus plan for the cultural sector, with 614 million euros over two years, dedicated to the revival by and for the heritage. This state support is already manifested in your territories: I am thinking of the aqueduct of Roquefavour, in the Bouches-du-Rhône, or the ramparts of Dinan, in the Côtes-d'Armor, where I visited a few weeks ago, and who will benefit from these credits – these are of course only examples among many others. The Ministry of Culture has been contributing for more than sixty years to the preservation of heritage – it is certainly not the only one – and has over the years been able to develop essential tools and partners. Among them, of course, the local authorities, but also the foundations. The Heritage Foundation has thus been a very important partner since its creation in 1996: it has, over the years, developed its activities by mobilising corporate sponsorship or issuing its own label, while engaging in public subscription or participatory financing campaigns. From its inception, the State entrusted it with the task of issuing a label for unprotected heritage in respect of historical monuments, which entitles it to a tax deduction scheme in respect of income tax. The Foundation has also contributed to the initiative of the Heritage Lotto, desired by the President of the Republic, whose success is not denied. It continues to provide leadership in relation to the mission entrusted to Stéphane Bern and to the DRACs, the regional directorates of cultural affairs. This draft law is in line with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors' report of December 2018. The judges of the Court then called for a review of the label scheme, in order to make it more efficient, as well as the simplification of the composition of the Foundation's board of directors, in order to achieve greater efficiency. The aim of the text is therefore to make more effective the actions to safeguard the local cultural heritage and to revitalize the Heritage Foundation. The work of the Assembly and the Senate has resulted in a consensus text; We can only congratulate them. As you know, Article 1, which extended the scope of the label, has become irrelevant since the first reading of the text last year. The conditions for issuing the label have indeed been amended by Article 7 of the Third Amending Finance Act for 2020, promulgated last July, which fully incorporates its provisions. This has made it possible to speed up the implementation of the system, which we can all welcome. Article 3 of the draft law amends the composition of the Foundation's board of directors. It brings it closer to the common law to the foundations recognized as being of public utility. It seems to me that you have reached a point of balance which we can be pleased to welcome and which is reflected in the reduction in the number of members of the board of directors from twenty-five to sixteen and in their division into several categories: representatives of founders, patrons, donors, qualified personalities, representatives of local authorities and representatives of national associations for the protection and presentation of heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, LT and IDU-I groups]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons – I conclude – the Heritage Foundation is intended to complement the work of the Ministry of Culture with ambition and efficiency. I therefore welcome your initiative to adapt its organization and make it more effective. Beyond this, be assured of my full mobilization to ensure that the Ministry of Culture fully fulfils its mission of preserving, accompaniment and valuing the heritage. I, too, can count on the entire national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u4	I too would like to thank you, Mrs Verien, for attending our debates from the gallery. Mrs Béatrice Descamps, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u5	It is a great honour and a great satisfaction for me to see the completion of the review of the proposed legislation to modernize the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation, tabled by our colleague Senator Dominique Verien. After being unanimously adopted on first reading in the Senate in October 2019 and then in the Assembly in January 2020, it is the subject of a second reading, which took place in the Senate last March, and is now in our assembly this morning. The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education voted the text of the Senate without amendment and, since no amendments have been tabled, let me believe that the same will be done in public. The Heritage Foundation has become a key player in the protection of heritage in France. The successive debates showed the consensus nature of the text, with the two chambers sharing the same two objectives. On the one hand, it is a question of strengthening the Foundation in its role of defending the unprotected heritage, characteristic of the rural heritage: houses, churches, wash houses, mills, small castles, fortified farms, industrial heritage... – this is where the heart of its action must be. On the other hand, it is a matter of simplifying the Foundation's governance to make it more effective. At this stage of the parliamentary shuttle, there were only two articles under discussion: Articles 1 and 1 bis. Article 1 was deleted by the Senate at second reading, as its provisions were incorporated into the Financial Amendment Act of July 2020. The latter specifies the scope of the label issued by the Heritage Foundation, which is eligible for a tax deduction scheme for works. Article 1e bis provides for editorial coordination in various pieces of legislation. We began the examination of this bill in 2019, concerned about the maintenance of the heritage, so dear to our fellow citizens, to our territories, aware of its fragility, especially after the fire of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, which upset us all and at the occasion of which the Heritage Foundation showed its ability to raise donations and organize the national collection. The health crisis interrupted a parliamentary shuttle that could have been much faster. But this crisis has shown, at a time when displacement is limited, the commitment of the French to their heritage and the enthusiasm for the discovery of our regions. Through the recovery plan, we have the opportunity to give new impetus to the maintenance and restoration of the heritage, in order to preserve our common heritage, but also to revive employment and the economy throughout the territory. The Heritage Foundation has an important role to play, thanks to the financial leverage it can create and its ability to unite energies around restoration projects. If the Assembly adopts the bill in the same terms as the Senate – thus definitively – its provisions will be able to come into force quickly. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens, LT and IDU-I]] I welcome this consensus, which shows the French' commitment to the invaluable wealth of our heritage, a testimony to our history and to the cultural diversity of our territories. I would therefore like to thank Dominique Verien, our honourable senator, particularly and warmly, who is currently present in the public gallery, at the initiative of this bill, and to whom I extend my congratulations. I also thank the Heritage Foundation, with which we have been working for more than a year to work towards the conclusion of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u6	In the general debate, Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u7	I am delighted, Mrs Descamps, to see you again on the bench of the committees, although I must admit that the interim court which I had the opportunity to carry out in committee, as alternate rapporteur, has allowed me to discover a great deal about the work of the Heritage Foundation and to have constructive exchanges on its essential role in energizing our rural territories. France is a beautiful country that values its heritage, its history. And if one often cites the example of the donations received as a result of the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, the work of the Foundation allows us to measure the enthusiasm, just as strong, for the works and monuments of less urbanized territories. These bridges, mills, abbeys and other farm bodies bear witness to a dynamic past of our countryside, where the vast majority of our ancestors lived, and show a way of living in French. Thus, in my beautiful department of the Somme, one of the most rural – among its 772 communes, only Amiens, the capital, and Abbeville have more than 20,000 inhabitants – there are many projects to renovate religious buildings. I am thinking of the abbey and the abbey of Notre-Dame de Ham, a city dear to my heart, but also of the project concerning the castle of Pont-Remy or the halls of Quevauvillers. I am also thinking of my constituency of 242 communes, hard hit by the First World War, but where there are still places for the development of tourism, such as the chapel of Saint-Christ-Briost, a small town of 400 inhabitants, chapel for the preservation of which a volunteer association is fighting – and I take this opportunity to thank the Heritage Foundation for its interest in this project. It is with great enthusiasm, therefore, that we reach the end of this text on the important heritage of our rural territories, with great serenity and in the eyes of Senator Dominique Verien, whose initiative I welcome on behalf of the IDU and independent group – I also thank her for her work and her commitment. This journey began thanks to the Union centriste group in the Senate, and continued in the Assembly on the occasion of a parliamentary niche of the IUD-I group in January 2020, and ended in this Government week. More generally, it seems that we have managed to achieve high-quality legislative work thanks to the enthusiasm of all parliamentarians, but also to the Government, which, in an amending finance law for 2020, has taken over one of the essential measures of the bill, namely the extension of funding to projects located in cities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Over the years, the Foundation has proved its great capacity for action throughout the territory and the increase in this budget leads to the impression that the limit set at 2000 inhabitants had left behind a precious unprotected heritage in our small towns and villages. In a country too centralized as ours, too often we tend to forget that culture and heritage are not only found in Paris and in large urban centres, and that the beautiful and great cultural diversity of our countryside and small towns also contributes to the spread of French culture. The measures that we will definitively endorse today are very much expected by the actors of the Foundation with whom I have had the opportunity to exchange with again recently. I am thinking here of changing the terminology for buildings listed as historical monuments, of bringing together with the model statutes of other foundations recognized as being of public utility or of increasing financial resources. Parliamentarians will not sit on the board of directors, but we will certainly remain vigilant. It will be our duty to follow closely the evolution of the work undertaken by the Foundation every year, in order to ensure the maintenance of our cultural heritage and access to the most equal culture possible in all territories. Finally, I hope that the question of the reallocation of donations will soon be able to find a suitable legal solution. Every year, millions of euros are not used: we cannot allow such a situation to continue while many projects throughout France would need funding. Minister, this issue is obviously complex, but I am sure it is not insurmountable for anyone who would like to sustain the preservation of our rural heritage. The IDU and independent group will obviously support this bill with great enthusiasm. Once again, we thank our rapporteurs, Ms.Verien in the Senate and Ms.Descamps in the National Assembly, for their work and commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u8	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u9	We have before us, on the occasion of its second reading, a bill to modernize the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation. The Freedom and Territory Group considers that the Foundation's primary mission must remain the protection of the unprotected heritage, the heritage of proximity. As a first step, I will not surprise you by telling you that within the Freedom and Territory Group, we are fully aware of the value of what constitutes the heritage and attach great importance to its transmission, its valuing and simply its maintenance. This goes well beyond the only built heritage, whether habitable or not, on which the Foundation's activity is focused. How can we not mention, when we are awaiting a decision by the Constitutional Council – which is due to take place tomorrow – the situation of our intangible heritage? I am thinking of the languages and cultures of France, considered by UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, as being in great danger of extinction today, even though I recognize that this is a digression with regard to the purpose of the bill. The Heritage Foundation is important because it contributes particularly to the preservation of all this small heritage to which, like many of our fellow citizens, we are very attached. It contributes to the attractiveness and revitalization of the territories, issues to which our group is naturally sensitive. By contributing to cultural transmission between generations, the social bond, cultural identity and even the pride of citizens clearly attached to their heritage, be it small rural heritage or more emblematic buildings, are strengthened. I am thinking, for example, of the Parliament of Brittany, which had burned as a result of a demonstration and which was completely rebuilt. The mission of safeguarding the heritage also ensures the sustainability and the valorisation of particular know-how and techniques. It must be noted that the French are not mistaken and that these issues are part of their concerns, as evidenced by the success of the draw of the heritage lottery, set up in 2018. The main role of the Heritage Foundation is to work to preserve local heritage. Even though its missions have been extended, we must ensure that it can carry out its original project, especially since the disappearance of the parliamentary reserve in 2017 no longer supports certain actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u10	Yes, that's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u11	I am thinking in particular of some churches in my territory, mostly built in the 19th century: after one hundred or fifty years, their almost complete renovation is necessary. The problem is obviously to find the funds...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u12	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u13	... because such works represent a high cost for monuments that are not classified. This task is therefore based on municipalities. For them, that's a real question. Indeed, if one no longer sees the famous church in the middle of the village, for example because it was destroyed, it will necessarily miss something. It is also not possible to leave a ruin in the middle of a village. Perhaps the solution would be to consider a wider use of churches than today. I remind you that in the Middle Ages the churches were simply the common house. There were also festivals, and there were assemblies where the inhabitants were going – I was going to talk about citizens, but they were not citizens at that time. Thus, the function of churches could be expanded to become real places of culture and not just religious places. Article 1, the provisions of which were finally incorporated into the amending finance law of July 2020, should enable more projects to be supported by opening the label to municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and to new heritage sites, such as gardens and parks. We are in favour of this as long as it does not lead to abandoning the small rural heritage. As we recalled during the discussions on the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, we question the territorial distribution of the means of conservation of the heritage. While the conditions of restoration work and the state of health of our heritage are at stake, it should be remembered that 65% of the heritage credits are paid out in Île-de-France: the rest of the territory must therefore share one third of the credits. I could give other examples: 90% of the appropriations of the Ministry of Culture are spent in the Paris region, and 67% of the appropriations allocated to tourism policy are spent in the same region – and only 2%, for example, in Brittany, which is nevertheless a large tourist region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u14	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups. – Mrs Sandrine Mörch and Mrs Souad Zitouni also applaud]] I conclude by noting that in the country of equality, it would seem that some are more equal than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u16	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u17	Established more than twenty years ago, the Heritage Foundation's mission is to contribute to the preservation and rehabilitation of our country's heritage, especially in rural areas, of which I am a representative. It has already intervened on more than 30,000 projects. In Ariège, for example, she participated in the restoration of the church of Laroque-d'Olmes, the church of the bell tower of Noguès in Lescure and the creation of the bird park of Domaine des oiseaux in Mazères, to name but a few emblematic projects of my department. In some cities of Ariège, such as Foix or Pamiers, some buildings, real emblems of the Ariegean heritage, have been abandoned for decades due to lack of means to carry out the necessary works. The estimated cost of renovation, where still possible, is now unbearable. This is a real problem for many local elected officials, who often find themselves deprived to stop this phenomenon of deterioration of the heritage. The stated ambition of this bill is to modernize the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation. In principle, we are of course in favour of this, but the current functioning of this body and the measures proposed by the IDU and independent group do not satisfy us very much. First of all, we consider the very principle of the defiance of income tax to be 50 to 100 per cent of the amount of work done by the owners as questionable. The extension of this incentive tool to the owners of habitable buildings located in municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants implies a considerable extension of the base of the owners who will be able to benefit from it. This is still a measure for a few more fortunate fellow citizens that may seem unwelcome, especially in the current context, since it would allow owners of beautiful homes to carry out their work at the expense of taxpayers. Unfortunately, we will not be able to vote against this unfortunate provision today, as the amending finance law has already introduced it into our law. In another register, the proposals in the text on governance of the Foundation's board of directors really offend us. By removing the limit of one third of the votes that may be cast by one of the representatives of private companies and by replacing the notion of absolute majority with that of simple majority, the bill will only increase the control of companies such as L'Oréal, Sodexo, Vivendi, Crédit agricole or Danone over the administration of a foundation known as a public utility. On the contrary, we would like representatives of private companies to be a minority on the board of directors. Finally, under the guise of diversification of the type of donations feasible by companies, the text could, in our view, open up new possibilities for tax optimisation through corporate sponsorship. However, we believe that today's tax evaders are already a real financial gabegy. According to the figures published by CEPII, the Centre for Prospective Studies and International Information, around 36 billion euros are relocated each year by French companies to subsidiaries abroad, i.e. 1.6% of GDP. This would represent a loss of EUR 14 billion for the State. The group La France insoumise proposes to develop a completely different vision of what the policy of safeguarding and restoring our country's heritage should be. We believe that it would be necessary to create an entirely public body with predominantly public investment funds and a governance model that would allow for a broad representation of all sections of civil society. If the considerable amounts allocated to the defiscalisation came back in the form of state taxes, they would make it possible to make the necessary investments where it is most useful, according to criteria defined in a transparent and democratic way, and no longer to the will of the current "expertocracy" or private interests hidden behind the mask of altruism. As you have understood, in the light of the arguments I have just put forward, the La France insoumise group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u18	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u19	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u20	The proposed legislation to modernize the Heritage Foundation, which we are considering today and which was tabled two years ago, is intended to enable more private owners to benefit from aid to renovate homes or buildings of character while improving the effectiveness of this body. Let us acknowledge that there is little left of the bill as it was introduced two years ago. However, the Heritage Foundation is strong, with its network of 22 regional delegations and 100 departmental delegations, led by 600 volunteers. In 2019, it collected donations from 281,000 donors and 6,000 private companies. As we have already said in previous reviews, we consider that this bill does not divert the Heritage Foundation from its core business, that is, support for the protection of rural heritage – and that is what matters to us. Through this organization, we can restore and preserve our local heritage. The measures to relax the conditions for issuing the Foundation's label go in the right direction, whether it concerns the eligibility of parks and gardens or the extension of its geographical scope to sites classified under the Environmental Code and to all municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants – this label being, for example, reserved, as far as the population criterion is concerned, for municipalities with less than 2,000 inhabitants. Today, the label excludes habitable buildings, apart from those located in rural areas and remarkable heritage sites (SPR), a whole part of the heritage which cannot be classified in SPR but which is located in communes with more than 2000 inhabitants. There are 44,000 classified real property assets, of which 2000 are considered at risk and 11,000 are in poor condition. However, if one considers that a whole part of the heritage forgotten by the label has passed under the radars of the classification, the figures are much more alarming. In this context, the enlargement of the label is positive, even if we must again question the disengagement of the State in the conduct of conservation policies. The bill also provides for the reform of the board of directors of the Heritage Foundation, and it is certainly on this point that we express the greatest reservations. Reduce the number of its members to make it more operational and bring its composition closer to that of the common law to the foundations recognized as being of public utility, why not? But this supposed search for efficiency is being carried out in favour of the private companies which sit there when it comes to the administration of a foundation of public utility, which goes beyond a search for more operationality. We believe that by giving such a preponderance to private companies, this provision is far removed from the efficiency sought. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – The rapporteur and Ms Fiona Lazaar also applaud]] These are the reservations that we in the GDR Group would like to make again, but we remain faithful to what we said earlier, namely that our vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u21	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u22	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u23	We feel in this Chamber, but also in our territories and in the media, a enthusiasm of our fellow citizens for heritage, this structural element of our common culture. We were again able to measure this popular craze yesterday, when we reopened the cultural places that we are all happy to find again. I would like to pay tribute to the considerable work done by the Heritage Foundation and to detail the progress that this bill, tabled today by our colleague Béatrice Descamps, represents. This text fully meets certain expectations, knowing that the Heritage Foundation, for almost twenty-five years, is 30 000 projects to rescue local heritage, participation in the heritage lottery, and innovative means of financing that must be encouraged in order to give new life to this organization. The time has come for modernization, which allows us to modernise the heritage code. The proposed law thus provides for a reduction, in order to make it more effective, of the number of members of the board of directors of the Heritage Foundation, which will include qualified persons to go even further in the expertise it has acquired. It is also expected that Parliament will be kept informed of the activities of this foundation through the submission of a report. I also welcome the fact that several sections of this bill have already been put into practice by another legislative vehicle that has already been mentioned, namely the third amending finance law for 2020, which provides for the extension of the scope of the label issued by the Heritage Foundation to include a tax deduction scheme on income tax. I would like to deal more broadly with the question of the place of patronage in the financing of the preservation of our heritage: we must encourage it. The Heritage Foundation contributes to this, but we could go even further in the development of patronage, not only financial but also of skills, including in terms of innovation, because France has a particular know-how that should be put at the service of heritage through the involvement of all in its preservation. The valorisation of crafts and know-how of excellence is also an instrument of revival. But to do more philanthropy is not to forget the duties of the State and local authorities, which is why the Government has mobilized unprecedented sums, as you pointed out, Madam Minister, to ensure the preservation of our culture everywhere and for all, i.e., in aggregate, more than 9 billion euros for culture, the recovery plan and various sectoral aids, and, specifically, for the heritage: 80 million euros for the cathedral plan, 614 million euros for the revival by and for the heritage. Recovery also depends on the attractiveness – which is a source of jobs – whose heritage, especially in France, is truly a major player. I recall that our country has 45,000 protected historic sites and 45 UNESCO World Heritage sites. Yes, we are a country of heritage and I do not need to recall the importance of tourism and its link to heritage. I would like to point out that we are preparing for the future: there is a revival, but also, at the heart of the state budget, in the last finance law, an increase of almost 5% in the appropriations allocated to the protection of the heritage. I think we could even imagine doing even more, given the enthusiasm around the support of the various foundations after the fire of Notre-Dame de Paris. It would be interesting, and this point is dear to me, to deepen the idea of a popular subscription, not only for the heritage of the Middle Ages or the Renaissance, but also for the heritage of the twentieth century, for there are masterpieces of the last century that deserve their preservation to mobilize our full attention. I am thinking in particular of the House of the People, in Clichy, in my constituency: it is an architectural gem of the first crown – I am not the only one to say it, it is truly recognized throughout the world. Today, this unaffected building is in danger. One could decide to finance its protection in a popular and participatory way – is it not a house of the people? – within the framework of the logic of a heritage by and for all. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] The course of this bill, which has had several readings in the Senate and the National Assembly since 2019, is a reflection of the protection of our heritage, a process marked by long time, iterations, the twists in our history and our parliamentary procedure, whose outcome is, however, favorable thanks to a valuable text. The La République group will therefore vote with enthusiasm for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u24	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u25	I am very pleased to speak before you this morning the day after the reopening of places of culture in our country, the day after the breakdown of culture – our roads have intersected, Madam Minister, in a place that paid tribute to the creative power of two geniuses. We are considering, at second reading, the bill by Senator de l'Yonne Dominique Verien – which I would like to acknowledge in a very friendly and grateful way – to modernize the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation. This text was adopted almost unanimously at first reading by our House more than a year ago. For almost twenty-five years, the Heritage Foundation, whose fundamental role I want to highlight, has been a very valuable tool in our policy of conservation and restoration of heritage. All of us here can only be sensitive to the historical, cultural and memorial dimensions of our heritage, as well as to its essential role in defining our national identity and our local and regional identities. However, the health crisis that we have been going through for more than a year and that we all hope to begin to emerge gradually has also had consequences for our heritage, first and foremost of which some delays in conservation and restoration operations: at the end of December last year, for example, the online ticketing company Patrivia estimated that the turnover of the 44,000 French historical monuments had been lost by more than 50% – and yet this assessment had been drawn up without taking into account the losses caused by the costs incurred with a view to reopening on 15 December last, a prospect that had faded. In this context, it seems more than necessary to strengthen the role and mission of the Heritage Foundation, which is responsible for mobilizing the private sector to safeguard and enhance our unprotected heritage by enabling it to work even more effectively. Most recently, the Heritage Study Group of our Assembly, which I have the pleasure of co-chairing with our colleague Raphaël Gérard, has heard the new Director General of Heritage and Architecture, Jean-François Hebert, and we have stressed our keen interest in the implementation of the heritage policy of the Ministry of Culture, as well as the very great vigilance that this policy is the subject of on our part. As the President of the Heritage Foundation, Guillaume Poitrinal, did recently in the press, I too want to sound the alarm bell: we have been witnessing, for several years, the proliferation of fires that destroy our heritage. There is no need to mention the fire that considerably damaged Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, but I recall that the Cathedral of Nantes burned in July 2020, the Correzian church of Saint-Christophe de Voutezac in January 2021, the collegiate church of Saint-Nicolas d'Avesnes-sur-Helpe in the North in April 2021, and, most recently, the small church of Saint-Pierre de Romilly-la-Puthenaye in Normandy, and the Hôtel de Dion in Saint-Omer. While some of these fires are of criminal origin, others are often due to a lack of maintenance due to lack of financial resources. We must at all costs allow the Heritage Foundation, which plays an essential role in fund-raising, to deploy its talents and energy, especially since, it has been recalled, the enthusiasm of our compatriots for the heritage does not defy itself, quite the contrary: even in this period of relative exit from the pandemic crisis, they always show a real appetite for visiting our heritage places, and the success of the heritage lottery, carried by Stéphane Bern's communicative enthusiasm, is clear. Donation collections, which continue to be a real success, testify to the fact that our heritage is essential to nationhood. Heritage protected as unprotected, architectural heritage of historical origin as industrial heritage, large castles emblematic as modest elements of rural heritage, the interest our compatriots bear in them attest to their true love for the French heritage. As in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, just a few days ago, the Republicans will vote in favour of this bill introduced by Senator Dominique Verérie, in terms adopted at its last reading by the Senate and on the basis of the excellent report by our colleague Béatrice Descamps, whose quality of work I stress. We hope that even today, as in committee, this bill will be adopted by a very broad majority so that the Heritage Foundation can pursue its mission so important as calmly and effectively as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LR groups, Activité ens, LT and IUD-I, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Culture is essential, and heritage is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u26	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u27	The second reading of the bill to modernize the tools and governance of the Heritage Foundation is an opportunity to reiterate, once again, our deep commitment, shared by the French, to the protection of heritage. Our comments on the subject may seem redundant, but they are still essential, because safeguarding and valuing the heritage fully contribute to the attractiveness of the territories, to their dynamism, and play an essential economic role because of the 500,000 non-relocating jobs associated with them. As Stéphane Bern declared, at the edge of his mission: "Our heritage is the chance of France, including economically, it is our treasure, our oil! » It would, moreover, be desirable, in passing, for all the EPCI, the public institutions for inter-communal cooperation, to include the preservation of the heritage in what is of Community interest, because this is not always their practice. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes the progress of this law, which will contribute to the consolidation of 9,000 degraded monuments and 3000 others threatened with danger in France. I too, Madam Minister, am the sad spectator in the commune of which I was mayor of the rapid dilapidation of the only remarkable building, its unclassified church of the nineteenth century. The Act will also contribute to the development of gardens, parks and industrial or rural heritage. Recall the main points of the text: tax deduction for owners carrying out works against the commitment to make the property concerned accessible to the public; extension of the benefit of the label for unprotected heritage and extension to unbuilt buildings; grant of the label in the majority to buildings belonging to the rural heritage. These welcome enlargement measures have finally been incorporated into Article 7 of the Law of 30 July 2020 on Amending Finance for 2020, so that the label can quickly play a more effective role for the heritage sector in relaunching activities. The Foundation will also be able to become more efficient, thanks to the change in the composition of its board of directors, adopted at first reading, and above all to be able to benefit from allocations in shares or shares of undertakings. I would like to point out that partnership with companies – whether they are large companies that benefit from a genuine territorial network, or medium-sized companies or small and medium-sized companies, sometimes family companies, that print their territory and are committed to the idea of transmission – is crucial for the preservation of threatened sites. This partnership must be constantly encouraged by new bridges between foundations and businesses. It is a perfect complement to the active participation of citizens through their donations and participation in the now very popular heritage lottery. The second reading of the text proposes, essentially, through Article 1a, to replace the term "built or unbuilt buildings classified as historical monuments, included in the supplementary inventory" with the term "built or unbuilt buildings classified or listed as historical monuments". We are obviously in favour of this update proposed by the Senate, which was voted in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Activité ens, LT and IDU-I groups]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will therefore vote with enthusiasm. We thank the rapporteur for her work and are delighted to meet her with us this morning. We also welcome the work of Senator Dominique Verérien. The Dem Group is deeply convinced that the attention and care given to yesterday's works, shaped by yesterday's men, is the closing of a future in which we can respect the man of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u28	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u29	It is an honour and a great pleasure to speak in the rostrum to talk about culture, and it will change matters that fall within the competence of the Law Committee. First of all, I want to apologize to Michèle Victory, who cannot be present. I am making myself his interpreter to tell you all the good that I think of this bill, of the Heritage Foundation and of the action taken by the Ministry of Culture in favour of built heritage, living heritage and more broadly of the cultural heritage as a whole that anchors, in our territories, both our history and our future. The Heritage Foundation, to be heard by the various interlocutors, is a well-known association. She has participated in many delicate and complicated safeguard actions that have been carried out in our territories. As Vice-President of the General Council of Saône-et-Loire in charge of culture and heritage, I was brought to work in 2011 with the Heritage Foundation to associate it with a departmental policy. Although modest in terms of the appropriations that could be spent on the vast operation in question, we nevertheless found an incentive system for a subscription that raised citizens' interest in the heritage. Without citizens, the state and communities are poor. It is through this openness to the citizens and citizenship of all our architectural work that the Heritage Foundation marks its singularity and its interest. Let me highlight the great difficulties facing, in particular, built heritage. For example, the 500 or so communes in my department have more than 300 Romanesque churches. Some communes even have two Romanesque churches classified as historical monuments to their charge – I am thinking of Martailly-lès-Brancion, near Tournus and the castle of Brancion. This commune, recently supported by the department to restore the lava roof of its two Romanesque churches, is facing serious difficulties due to the abandonment of the very useful financing plans built on the following distribution: 50 per cent for the State, 25 per cent for the region and 25 per cent for the department. This meant that the municipalities had almost nothing to pay for, which was ultimately a good way to enable the communities to ensure the transmission of heritage. If the State responds present, I can only regret the disengagement of departments and regions from this type of project. We will soon organize a meeting in Martailly-lès-Brancion to try to mobilise funding. The Heritage Foundation is of course invited, but it cannot do the impossible. In the face of these difficulties, we must think collectively. In fact, the bill invites us to do so with the extension of the label, which I think is quite interesting. Let us not be fooled: the tax deduction system is an extremely effective tool for generating interest in restoration projects while providing indirect financial support from the state. We therefore very much support the extension of the label and, more generally, the various possibilities which will be offered to the Heritage Foundation to develop its activity and to demonstrate its support for the various projects. Of course, our main reserve is on the weight – which I understand will prevail – of private companies on the board of directors of this public utility foundation. I see this as a link and an opening to patronage, which the Heritage Foundation wishes to make more present by soliciting private companies. We will have to be vigilant on this point, and see if it produces the happy effects that you are hoping for, minister. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens, LT, UDI-I and GDR]] The Socialist and related groups, however, very much welcome the bill and will vote for it. I know you're looking for a consistent vote that will mark the end of a long story. Again, I thank the honourable senator, the rapporteur and the minister, as well as all the volunteers who work for heritage and help us safeguard it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u30	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u31	The identity of France is expressed through the richness of our heritage. More than a sum of monuments, heritage is an important part of what we are and constitutes our link with previous generations, as well as with future generations. Our heritage is extremely diverse and we can be proud of it. Next to the cathedrals that the world envys us, there are a multitude of monuments that are more discreet but just as constitutive of what France is. The bridges, fountains, washhouses and chapels that make the charm of our terroir require special attention and effort on the part of the State. While the great monuments have no difficulty in attracting patrons, this equally valuable small heritage also knows the abyss of time and therefore requires special attention from the public authorities. We have a responsibility to do everything we can to better preserve this historical, cultural, identity and, of course, economic capital, since it is a source of attractiveness for our country and a vehicle for recovery that must not be overlooked. The Heritage Foundation was established in 1996 for this purpose. Today, it supports individuals, local authorities and associations in projects to restore local heritage. In twenty years, and thanks to my volunteers, the Foundation has participated in more than 30,000 local heritage rescue projects. It relies on three main levers: label, public subscription and corporate sponsorship. She was also the main partner of the heritage lottery and played a fundamental role in the ongoing restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. While the Heritage Foundation has contributed to obvious successes over the past fifty years, a number of levers would make it more effective and, most importantly, expand its scope to include heritage jewellery that is now at risk. In this respect, the bill contains several advances, which I would like to welcome on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. It will allow the Heritage Foundation to extend its label to unprotected living heritage located in rural areas, towns and small towns with less than 20,000 inhabitants, compared to 2000 at present. This is a real step forward for small towns that could not fully benefit from the support arrangements. I am thinking in particular of the city of Aire-sur-la-Lys, in my constituency, which is home to an exceptional heritage such as the former hospital Saint-Jean-Baptiste, which could benefit from enhanced support thanks to this bill. The text will also make it possible to extend the label to the unbuilt heritage, which is now excluded from it. This label will benefit parks and gardens, which in some territories constitute real heritage gems. The draft law also contains a number of advances to strengthen the effective functioning of the Foundation. As such, our group welcomes the provisions amending the organisation of the Board of Directors, reducing the number of its members and improving Parliament's control over the management of the Foundation. Finally, we welcome the possibility for the Foundation to receive grants in shares or in shares of companies. Article 4, rewritten by the Senate, now presents all the safeguards enabling the measure to be properly applied: this possibility must indeed respect the non-profit and disinterested nature which characterizes the management of the Foundation. All these changes will allow the Heritage Foundation to double the number of labels awarded, which will reach nearly 2000 labels per year, of which at least half will be dedicated to rural heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens, LT and IDU-I groups]] This bill is a good thing for our territories. It responds to a strong demand from associations and municipalities, particularly those involved in projects to revitalize and revitalize their city centre or city centre. It will have taken a long time to reach this vote, since it has now been more than a year since we adopted the text at first reading. I hope that this text can be applied as soon as possible. I therefore invite you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to vote on it so that it can be adopted by as many of us as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u32	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u33	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text. There is no need to put to the vote rule 1, the deletion of which by the Senate was upheld by the commission and which is not subject to any reinstatement amendment. On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u34	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u35	The covid-19 epidemic has greatly affected the heritage sector. At the time of the reopening of places of culture, I would like to take this opportunity to express the great happiness that this represents for all of us. We know how attached French people are to the richness and beauty of all the places of art and history that make up the heritage of our country. More than ever, we need to protect and cherish him. We therefore welcome the consideration of this proposal for a law to extend the measures to safeguard cultural heritage by reforming the award of the label awarded by the Heritage Foundation. It will also make it possible to modernise its operation and provide new financial room for manoeuvre. Since its establishment by the Act of 2 July 1996, the Foundation has shown its effectiveness and usefulness in serving the national heritage. It is at the heart of French and French cultural life. Recently, she was the main partner of the heritage lottery, created at the initiative of Stéphane Bern and whose success we all know. She also played a key role in the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. The heritage sector is a key driver of economic recovery that we must fully value. Jobs are non-relocable and distributed throughout the country. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Minister, I am aware of your commitment and that of the Government to culture and especially to heritage and its protection. Our heritage, like our language, is our history and identity. We need to cherish him and keep him alive. I take this opportunity to acknowledge your commitment and that of your collaborators, and to thank the Heritage Foundation, as well as all professionals, associations and volunteers for their exemplary commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u36	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u37	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 35 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u38	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u39	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u40	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill on confidence in the judicial institution (No. 4091, 4146).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u41	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with clause 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u42	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 68, 399 and 612 to delete Article 4. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u43	Article 4 provides for increased penalties for violations of the secrecy of the investigation and investigation. If the authors of this amendment wish to preserve the secrecy of the investigation, which is an indispensable guarantee of the proper functioning of fair justice, they deplore the increase in the penalties provided for in this article, whereas the sentences in this regard are now restricted. They believe that it is preferable to stay with the penalties already provided for in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u44	Amendments Nos 399 by Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva and 612 by Mr Pierre Vatin are being defended. Mr Stéphane Mazars, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the Committee's opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u45	Unfavorable opinion. It is true, Mrs Buffet, that too few prosecutions and convictions take place in case of violation of the professional secrecy of investigation and investigation. Nevertheless, we are very committed to this principle. That is why we wanted to tighten the quantum of penalties, since they will make it possible to be more procedurally effective. It will now be possible to carry out searches without the consent of the person concerned, and to use the immediate appearance procedure. Today, we affirm our strong commitment to punish more harshly and effectively those who violate the secrecy of the investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u46	Mr. Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u47	Let's just say, we rarely condemn. There is no danger here, especially since the culprits, those who are responsible for the offence, are often responsible for the investigation of the culprits. The snake rarely bites its tail, however. However, allowing the practice of search is a useful act that will allow for a better punishment of these offences, which have often grave consequences, especially for the victim. We are here on symbolic ground and that is why, symbolically, I am firmly opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u48	Is Amendment No 217 by Mrs Marine Le Pen defended? Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u49	Article 4 certainly reinforces the secrecy of the instruction, but it does not alter the current logic: it only makes the revelation more difficult or risky. The defence of the principle of the secrecy of investigation is a necessity, we are all convinced, as it is repeatedly violated, sometimes by the judicial institution itself. This principle is essential for the protection of fundamental freedoms, of the presumption of innocence, but also of the judicial institution, since justice must be done by a judicial court and not by a media court. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the sanctions relating to the violation of the secrecy of the investigation, following the British model, which is particularly severe against the infringements of this fundamental guarantee of the liberty and dignity of persons. This amendment proposes to make absolute the secrecy of the investigation, the only information that can be made public – the opening of an investigation, the opening of an investigation, the indictments and the removal orders – is defined by law. The ban on broadcasting applies to everyone, including the press. It does not in any way call into question the principle of the secrecy of journalists' sources, but it prevents them from disseminating information of which they have become aware, in order to leave to the judicial institution alone the social role to judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u50	Of course, it would be so much easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u51	This measure, of course, requires that the prosecution and investigation systematically pursue violations of this principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u53	You want to set up a press police force, Madam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u54	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u55	Of course, we will not be able to follow you in this field. We will pursue those who violate the secrecy of the investigation, but there cannot be an a priori veto as you imagine. Therefore, this will be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u56	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u57	It is a shame that the editor of the amendment is not there to defend it. What is planned is simply the setting in motion of the press. It's still extraordinary, and it says a lot about its programme and intentions! In essence, the press would no longer have the right to do its job; She could announce a preliminary investigation, but not what she's covering! Certain elements may come to the attention of the press without necessarily being subject to a violation of the secrecy of the investigation. Our text deals with these issues, and you should all congratulate yourself and vote with ease. For the authors of this amendment, at the time of the investigation, an indictment and information such as the head of prosecution, for example, is not interesting? And above all, we are in a system, Mrs Pujol, where the seal keeper calls the police to get information out: that's what you dared to tell a few days ago. Beautiful program: disturbing program! We're going to put the press at a standstill: nothing bothers you, definitely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u58	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u59	The work of journalists is one of the pillars of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u61	To touch on journalists' freedom, their right to investigate, is to question the freedom of expression that is at the heart of our republican principles. This amendment is significant of the company project that its author and you, Madam, have presented. For our part, until the end we will defend the freedom of journalists. In judicial cases, the investigations of journalists have brought a lot,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u62	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u63	We will come back to that when we discuss the amendments relating to cold cases: they probably played a role in taking these cases into account. We will vote against this amendment, which we believe is extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u64	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u65	On behalf of the Republican Group, I would like to say that we will vote resolutely and firmly against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u66	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u67	In my voice, my political family, that of the Republican right, reaffirms its commitment to freedom of the press, to freedom of the profession of journalist. We have had the opportunity, since the beginning of this Parliament, to say this on several occasions, for example at the time of the examination here, at first reading, of the draft law on global security, when we defended an alternative version to the drafting of article 24, originally proposed by the departments of the Ministry of the Interior, as at the time of the examination of the bill, adopted definitively since then, which was then "relating to the fight against false information" before its title was changed. We reaffirm our visceral commitment to this freedom of the press, which is part of the fundamental freedoms in the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u68	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u69	The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats expressed the same shock, the same outrage at this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u70	We're getting ready for a great company!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u71	We will of course vote against and will always defend the freedom of expression and the free work of journalists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u72	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u73	I am speaking under Rules 98 and 99 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the tabling and examination of amendments. A new amendment by the Government just came this morning, on the question of the removal of reminders to the law. Already yesterday, with regard to the enforcement of sentences, the link was very indirect with the text – the amendment did not amend the same code as the one on which we are working – but there is absolutely no chapter in the text. [[Mrs Constance The Grip exclaims]] This amendment is therefore added today and there is still no censorship under article 45 of the Constitution. It is not against you, Minister – you have the right to table your amendments – but the presidency of the National Assembly has a slightly differentiated assessment. I do not know if I, too, need to find police officers to take part in a demonstration in the National Assembly with a view to having amendments that pass the filter of Article 45. I'm thinking about it. You never know, it can move the debate forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u74	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u75	You'll find it hard to get Nanterre's by your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u76	I take note of your point of order, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u77	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 660.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u78	It refers to the part of article 4, which gives the possibility to a judicial police officer (OPJ) to communicate elements of an investigation in place and under the supervision of the public prosecutor. I continued to reflect between the committee and the sitting and I maintain this amendment, because I do not see what the OPJ would do in this area, especially when we see that the expression of the police is sometimes problematic. If it was to read the statement or what the prosecutor says, to the limit why not, but that's not what the article says. Let it be "under the control" of the prosecutor, still happy: it is the least of the things. In fact, the problem is not the expression of the police, but of the unions who allow themselves to say anything about the ongoing investigations. I hope that there will be a criminal policy circular so that those who violate the secrecy of the investigation under the guise of union responsibilities are also concerned, because we cannot continue in this way. This is already possible in the current state of the law. However, minister, do not go so far as to search the trade unionists who tell anything about the news channels, as this could create cascading crises and be problematic for the country. On the other hand, giving the public prosecutor more power to communicate, it seems essential to me. A prosecutor and a police officer do not have the same role in an investigation. If the policeman comes out of the nails, he will have to assume this responsibility when he returns first and foremost to the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u80	You're saying that between the committee and the sitting, you've been thinking. Between the commission and the sitting, there were events in the Cevennes last week. The communication delegated by the public prosecutor to the gendarmes was very useful, much less focused on criminal procedure than on the prevention of security if, as a result of the beatings, you were faced with the person at large. This is a perfect example of the usefulness of this means of communication. I think it is important that the public prosecutor be able to control the communication of his OPJs, which will be the case with this text, and that the communication of the OPJs be a little bit near, backward or beyond, I do not know how to say it, of the one we are used to hearing on television sets or social networks, which is certainly that of representatives of the law enforcement agencies, but of trade union representatives. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u82	An important clarification: in the working group set up to reflect on these issues, prosecutors were in favour of delegating part of the communication, which is normally their reserved area. The example just cited shows how useful it is. I find your reasoning quite paradoxical: you complain, and I hear it, that some trade unionists, on the occasion of their participation in a particular show, are violating the secret of the investigation, and we are putting a little order in these disorders, which are abnormal, I concede. A trade unionist can speak on a lot of things, but not on an ongoing investigation, he's not above the law. Here, we allow an OPJ to communicate on the procedures with the agreement and under the supervision of the prosecutor. It's also a request from prosecutors: hear them. I repeat to the envie that, in the field, the police, the gendarmes, the prosecutors, the magistrates work together and that they work well. It's a request of each other, there's no reason not to hear them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u83	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u84	The example of the drama of the Cevennes and the ensuing communication shows that there is no need for your new provisions: you yourself demonstrate that the law already allows it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u85	No, it's about framing things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u86	I know this all the more because in 2012, when I arrived at the Ministry of the Interior, the new minister, as I do not particularly wear in my heart, passed on to the chiefs of police to say that they could communicate on these missions of public order – a beating will be organized, such a road will be blocked... – that are within the ministry and distinguish themselves from the investigation as such. I prefer, because it is today in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in Article 11, that prosecutors take responsibility for it and possibly for giving too much information, or for information which later proves to be inaccurate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u87	They'll take it anyway, since it's their responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u88	Look what happened in Nice. Imagine, in the case of Mrs Geneviève Legay, that the police officers were sent to a press conference, charged with both the system of maintaining order on the spot and the internal investigation, to communicate about their own actions. It would have been even worse. There, only the prosecutor was questioned, and that's normal, it was his responsibility. He was transferred ex officio, we know the rest of the story. These are examples, unrelated to the Cevennes, which show that these kinds of proposals are to be handled with tweezers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u89	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u90	The aim of this amendment is not to censor, but to set out the terms of an important debate. Minister, you were, during the first trial of Outreau, the lawyer of the poor baker dragged into the mud for years. From the Dreyfus case to little Grégory and his mother suspected of infanticide, what about psychological reconstruction after lengthy trials? Judicial time today is not that of the media. The amendment is therefore intended to prevent the dissemination of identity rather than the image of an alleged innocent person in judicial proceedings. And, I urge you, do not sue me for not loving the media: I must be the only one among us who has spent more than 20% of his life in dictatorship and I know what it is like to be unable to carry his word in the press. But in the face of important psychological sequels, broken careers, the girl who lived like me as a dictatorship tells you that what we have dearest in a democracy is our dignity and our reputation. I am open to debate, but justice must not go to the media, as you have said as a lawyer in several trials, minister. Justice goes to the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u92	Mrs Krimi, your commitment to this matter has been known since the beginning of the legislature. Every time you were able to do so, you took the floor to defend your position. However, your proposal is maximalistic; it cannot be retained in the context of this bill. If one pushes your reasoning to the end, it would become impossible to reveal the identity of someone like the fugitive of the Cevennes wanted last week by all the police of France. This would pose a real difficulty for the conduct of the investigation, particularly in operational matters – and it would be the death of the judicial chronicles, which may not always affect the general public. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u94	My position is exactly the same, Member. I fully understand your concern and the meaning of your amendment, but it is indeed maximalistic. Let us make it very clear that the personality of the person who is suspected, charged and referred to the correctional court or to the court of assizes is sometimes not alien to the emotion aroused in the population. It is therefore a little too far from trying to anonymise the suspect to this extent, whatever the stage of the procedure. In my opinion, this would be excessive and, even if I know that this is not what you want, it would be such as to hinder the free exercise of the free press in a free and democratic country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u95	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u96	I know that my proposal is maximalistic and I will obviously withdraw my amendment, but it is important that we have this debate. We can't handle social networks anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u97	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u98	Something has happened in democracies since 2005, 2006 or 2007, which we no longer know how to manage. In our societies, we no longer know how to deal with complexity. Everything must be simple: you are for animals or you are against, you are for women or you are against. There's no room for complexity anymore. And I think throwing people away in this way contributes to this phenomenon. My thought goes this morning to all the broken lives that you yourself have had the opportunity to defend in recent years, but I insist: the reflection must continue even if the operational nature of the information must be taken into account. When someone is on the run on the territory and there are facts showing that he is dangerous, of course one can disclose his identity, but as regards politicians, for example, or even people who are not at all known, I assure you that there is room for reflection on this subject, and this will not be done without working with the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u99	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u100	I would like to bring you, Madam Member, a small precision of size – it has passed under radars: it is now mandatory for online platforms to remove content of a terrorist nature within the hour. I would like to say that this is a very great victory achieved by the President of the Republic. To illustrate what you are saying about social networks, you were present yesterday and you heard my exchanges with Mr Chenu, who is no longer here today, who was not there the day before yesterday and who stayed only a few minutes. In the seconds that followed our exchange, which seemed firm but courteous to me, he tweeted that I respected Abdelkader Merah more than the French Parliament. Here's an example of online hate! It's level of... I should say gutter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u101	It's the far right...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u102	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] What do you want me to say? The far right has just proposed an amendment on press law that is shuddering and frightening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u103	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 360, 425 and 647, to delete Article 5. Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 360.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u104	It is intended to remove clause 5 of the bill, which, in my view, introduces additional restrictions on pre-trial detention. After eight months of pre-trial detention, it is planned to impose a special motivation so that it can continue in place of an electronic means of surveillance. The tragedies we have experienced in recent weeks prove this: electronic surveillance is sometimes ineffective against the most violent and dangerous individuals. In the case of domestic violence, for example, what prevents victims from filing complaints against their executioner, those who harass them or rack them up is often fear of reprisals. Against this, an anti-approximation or electronic surveillance device can sometimes do nothing at all: only pre-trial detention is really effective. Why limit it, when you know that the time spent in pre-trial detention is deducted from the remaining time to be served? I therefore propose to remain in the current regime and not to restrict the use of pre-trial detention a little further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u105	This is extraordinary, as a reasoning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u106	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 425.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u107	I would like to say a few words to introduce this amendment tabled by our colleague Eric Ciotti and quite broadly co-signed by the members of the Republican Group. It also proposes to delete section 5 of this bill, which limits pre-trial detention by requiring the judge, beyond a certain period of time, to search for another way, including home detention or electronic bracelet placement. It seems to us that pre-trial detention may be useful, especially in order to allow time to gather evidence of guilt or innocence. We therefore wish to remain in the current regime and not to add additional constraints to the pre-trial detention system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u108	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 647.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u109	This is a sensitive issue because pre-trial detention is often both necessary and always problematic. Locking up someone who has not been formally convicted after a fair trial, we cannot deny that this is a serious breach of the presumption of innocence, a fundamental principle of our justice. For a long time, the legislator has endeavoured to reduce the use of pre-trial detention; You, Minister, are going even further as you propose, in correctional matters, to replace the use of electronic house arrest as much as possible with incarceration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u110	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u111	What is most often the reason for the high rate of pretrial detention in France, despite all the efforts made for many years to reduce it, is first of all the length of proceedings, and perhaps this should be addressed first.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u112	But I'm on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u113	This length of proceedings is due both to their excessive complexity and, to be sure, to the chronic under-investment in our judicial system. The second explanation is, of course, the reality of delinquency, the volume of which has increased enormously in the last half century, which has engulfed the criminal chain. Its gravity – one cannot deny – often obliges magistrates to resort to the imprisonment of the accused. It may therefore also be necessary to work on these aspects. Trying to push magistrates to resort more to measures other than pre-trial detention is ultimately tantamount to taking effect for the case; Unfortunately, this will only lead to a new failure, leading to the release of more and more repeat offenders, which I do not think is desirable. I think that we are taking the problem backwards and that we should think differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u115	I am against the deletion amendments. I remind you once again – as has been said – that pre-trial detention is not a conviction: it is a security measure for an innocent person. The law does not change the conditions for remand in custody, as they remain exactly the same. We merely limit pre-trial detention to eight months; It's still quite a long time for an innocent alleged person who may be innocent – you say that the time spent in pre-trial detention is counted from the final conviction, but there are also people who are never convicted and who have carried out pre-trial detention for nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u116	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u117	The eight-month period is therefore sufficient and we assume that we must then switch to an electronic house arrest (ARSE). It is a mechanism that works well and ensures that some people do not move to certain places and remain at the disposal of justice. The principle is reversed from the eighth month, after a first four-month term of office has been issued, followed eventually by a four-month renewal. The system seems to me to be completely balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u119	What is this really about? Our country is one of the champions of all categories of pre-trial detention. We stand at about the same level as Turkey, and we are one of the last five Council of Europe member states of which there are forty-seven. Of course, the idea is not to reduce the pre-trial detention regime. I hear you may be going – no doubt – to your favourite field, that of laxism. But it's not about that at all! You know that the pre-trial detention measure is regularly reviewed by the judge. What we are proposing is that, after eight months, the latter should have to explain why the electronic bracelet solution would be rejected. That's it! Stop and end. We cannot complain about the number of provisional detainees without trying to solve the problem, unless we find it wonderful that France is at the same level as Turkey and finally say: let's not change anything. These are not at all final sentences imposed in the context of a judgment! Madame Ménard, forgive me, but the judge can always say, after eight months, that the bracelet must not be used. We just want to know the reasons, that's all. I do not want to make you scream, but I recall what has been in the Penal Code for decades: in the matter of pre-trial detention, it is stated that freedom is the rule and detention, the exception. We can't sit on all the principles! I know it's complicated to say that in times running, but it's reality and I want to have a balanced approach to these issues. You also know, Mrs Ménard, because you are at the National Assembly – I pay tribute to you on this point – that we unanimously defended a text to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention, and you voted for it. Recently, up to 1,400 prisoners were sleeping on the ground in unworthy conditions. Let me not be tried: I am probably the minister who will have taken the most prisons out of the land.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u120	So late!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u121	These issues must always be considered with common sense, without passion and with hindsight. Tomorrow there will be only one change with this article: the judge will have to say why he renounces the bracelet, stop and end. As for pre-trial detention, I don't deny it! It is useful and must contribute to the manifestation of truth. In the case of a group of accomplices, one of whom is arrested, it is naturally hoped that the latter will not be able to communicate with the others, who are still at large. Pre-trial detention is necessary as evidence, and there is nothing else to say! After eight months, what will the judge say? He will refuse to lift it because the risk of fraudulent cooperation between the detainee and his accomplices, if they are still at large, will still exist. We simply have this tool, the bracelet, which allows us to follow the person under investigation while respecting more closely the principle proclaimed by the Code of Criminal Procedure – I say for decades – that of freedom. It's a real surveillance device! Then, when the prisoner released is brought before the trial judge – a correctional court or a court of assize – he may be detained, this time his duration will correspond to the quantum of the sentence imposed. This happens every day in French courts: a man who has already spent three months in detention can arrive free but be sentenced to five years in prison and thus be immediately imprisoned. In fact, the Anglo-Saxon system to which you referred earlier, Mrs Ménard, has virtually no knowledge of pre-trial detention. It's very special: you have to pay to stay free – it's a bail system. We could not envisage such a functioning in a system like ours, and fortunately! You see, when you look at these questions seriously – I don't doubt yours – and in an objective way, you get that answer. It is not dramatic to ask a judge why he does not opt for the electronic bracelet for an accused who has spent eight months in pre-trial detention. It's no more complicated than that. One cannot hold a schizophrenic speech: unanimously adopt a law against unworthy conditions of detention and do not ask one another questions, especially when France, a country of human rights, is pinned in the media for its record rate of pre-trial detention – 30 per cent of people detained in France are in pre-trial detention compared with 21 per cent in Spain, for example. My reform is not revolutionary in this matter; I have not been caught in madness: the judge will have to say why he does not choose the placement in electronic bracelet for an accused who has already done eight months of pre-trial detention. If he does not do so and gives the reasons, the choice will be indisputable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u122	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u123	Recall that the system of placement under electronic surveillance, which all successive governments have tried to develop for a good ten years, concerned 14,000 people at the beginning of April 2020, which means that it was already engulfing at the time. As with any binding judicial action, the RESP requires a sufficient number of logistics and personnel, both to install the device and to monitor persons under house arrest. Unfortunately, these logistical means are insufficient. I welcome the increase in appropriations that you have received, minister, but it will not be enough to remedy that. You are right to be outraged at the unworthy conditions of detention and to recall that we recently adopted – and I believe it was unanimous – a text aimed at improving them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u124	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u125	You're right to be indignant about prison overcrowding. But, minister, what is the Head of State who promised during his election campaign to have 15,000 prison places built in five years? It's Mr. Macron. Where are those 15,000 prison places?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u126	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u127	They're not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u128	But it's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u129	You quote figures that include a large number of places still under construction...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u130	Some of them came out of the ground! I can't let that say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u131	...and, in fact, you have built up a maximum of 5000, in other words, Mr. Macron's promise is not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u132	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u133	Your President of the Republic has failed to fulfil his commitments in this area, so your little verse on prison overcrowding seems to me unconsidered and rather bad faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u134	First of all, it's not "my President of the Republic", it's our President of the Republic, don't you mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u135	The President of the Republic, that's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u136	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u137	The GDR Group will oppose these amendments because pre-trial detention must address security concerns. After eight months of pre-trial detention, one can indeed question the continuation of such a measure and the possibility of replacing it with an alternative solution. Having said that, I would like to follow up on the comments made by our colleague from the Republican Group on violence against women. Are we going to solve this problem with the proposed article or with a change of mentality? Is it believed that a man who is violent towards his wife poses a safety problem when the wife filed a complaint earlier because he hit her? Can we afford to put it in an electronic bracelet? It is perhaps too often felt that domestic violence does not raise safety issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u138	That's right! We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u139	After all the tragedies we have experienced, we must think about them and admit that, in these cases, pre-trial detention is often a necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u140	That's what I was saying: I was referring to domestic violence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u141	I fully agree on that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u142	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u143	Your remarks, Minister, reveal a logic that you recalled yesterday to criticize: to avoid as much as possible the use of imprisonment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u144	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u145	... and in particular pre-trial detention. You dress this objective with virtuous considerations – I myself do not place pre-trial detention and conviction on the same level. Currently, French prisons have some 20,000 persons in pre-trial detention and more than 40,000 convicted, making the use of imprisonment one of the lowest in Europe overall.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u146	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u147	For convicts, the use of imprisonment is 50% lower than in Great Britain and much lower than in Spain. We have had this debate for years, this same logic underpinned the 2009 prison law that I had not voted for. The glaring lack of places of detention leads to the use of subterfuges...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u148	What did you do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u149	...of which are the measures that you propose to us. If we do not build enough prisons, we have a deficit of at least 20,000 or 30,000 places, which prevents a real criminal response. We come back to the debate we had yesterday about police demonstrations: the failure of the criminal response is not the fault of the magistrates, but it is due to material contingencies that we can only settle by subterfuges such as the planning and non-execution of sentences. Instead of claiming that 92% of the sentences are executed, tell the truth: this rate is only reached after four years, in the light of your own statistics, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u150	This has nothing to do with the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u151	I condemn this logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u153	[[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] When there are thirty non-crazy violence per hour, prison is sometimes the only solution. You have to have the courage...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u154	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u155	I have already answered you yesterday, but it was obviously not enough because you are on the ideological front. Are you familiar with the subject of the amendments under debate, Mr Ciotti? You are no longer, as you were yesterday, in the National Assembly but in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u156	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u157	It is a question of deleting an article providing for asking a judge – an investigating judge or a judge of liberty and detention – whether it would not be possible to replace pre-trial detention with an electronic bracelet for defendants who have been incarcerated for eight months. The judge may refuse to do so, particularly in the case of a violent husband whose reactions he fears. We only want the judge to explain his decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u158	That is the subject of the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u159	In fact, trust is based on motivation, knowledge of the functioning of the justice system and the reasons that have prompted a magistrate to take a particular decision. It is not a Copernician revolution to demand this. Rather than debating this article and the amendments to delete it, you are developing your programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u160	It's the same logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u161	Let me repeat, Mr Ciotti, that "the" President of the Republic has promised the construction of prison places. I have inaugurated some of them, because some are already built, while 7,000 places are under construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u162	Six hundred seats in four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u163	I hear the "only we have to," but what did you do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u164	Seven thousand seats in five years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u165	Some critics, which is quite normal in a democracy, but do you want me to give you a list of members of your political family who refuse to set up a prison in their commune? Do you want me to deliver it to you? It's nice of you to say here "there's only one thing to say," but I can tell you something that keeps us away – because of you – from the debate on these amendments: the only search for sites for the construction of the 8000 places to come...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u166	It's not easy, it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u167	...represents a work...titanesque. The elected representatives must be brought in and feasibility studies carried out. Many of the elected are screaming here because the prisons are not built, but they don't want it at home. They prefer that they be built in the commune next door. Some elected members of the National Front also have to say on the subject. To denounce what's wrong, you're here, but to help build prisons, there's no one left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u168	It's a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u169	That there is a need to improve the time frame for the execution of sentences, I agree with you, and I am even the first to say so. For my part, I am trying to make a balanced and nuanced speech. On the steps of the Chancellery, one of my very first words was to regret the length of the deadlines for the execution of sentences. We have taken steps, as you know. Were you not at the meeting when the law was passed to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention? See that one can agree when it comes to the great principles. François-Noël Buffet, Chairman of the Senate's Law Commission, introduced a bill and allowed its rapid adoption. As the text I had prepared was considered a horseman, President Buffet took it back – and admitted it very faithfully. I approved the initiative and the legislative vehicle that came forward. And you adopted that text. What to say? You denounce the unworthy conditions of detention in this country, and then you criticize me when I try to touch – at the margin – on pre-trial detention. Let us repeat: it is not revolutionary to ask the judge to justify his decision to keep an accused in custody. If the judge considers that the accused must remain in detention, he will remain there. You cannot complain to me that you have set a time limit for remand in custody: I only ask the judge to give reasons for his decision. Is it worth such a shielding, such a polemic? I don't believe it. We can all agree on such a measure. What do we have to fear? As usual, Mr. Ciotti, you take the floor again and repeat the whole programme. This is not the place to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u170	Where's that then?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u171	But it is better in the Chamber than outside the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u172	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] But that's little politics! Do you agree with this amendment? Do you find it abnormal for a judge to justify his decision?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u173	I have before me two amendments, Nos 663 and 142, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 663.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u174	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] The long exchange of seals with the far right should not end in Stockholm syndrome. The slope is already taken if I judge from the removal of automatic sentencing reductions, one of the measures of Mrs Le Pen's program in 2017. If the keeper of the seals ignores me and does not listen to my words, I must not offend myself because I am only a poor parliamentarian, as everyone knows. I have managed to capture your attention, ladies and gentlemen, but still not that of the keeper of the seals. Good morning, Minister. Hello, hello? Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u175	Mr Bernalicis, you have two minutes of speaking time to introduce your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u176	We propose to reduce the time limit for pretrial detention from eight to four months. Since it is a good practice to cite concrete examples, I will speak of all those who added them and made caisses about the scandalous attack by police officers in Viry-Châtillon and the equally scandalous investigation that resulted: a young person remained in prison for four years while he was innocent. Security is always invoked in case of doubt, but pre-trial detention must be taken into account. Going to ARSE, maybe it's the minimum union. Yes, the conditions for remand in custody should be drastically tightened, which is the main cause of overcrowding in detention centres, as 40 per cent of detainees are placed there. If the minister would like to give me a little attention, I therefore propose that the deadlines be further reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u177	Amendment No 142 by Mr Erwan Balanant is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u178	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u180	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u181	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u182	Tell us, minister, if we disturb you in your dialogue with the far right. We can leave you between you, without any difficulty. Finally, it may be a few for the country. You're showing quite blatant disrespect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u183	Disrespect, he's on your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u184	Mr Cécile Untermaier did not have the floor in the previous debate, although she had asked for it. Mr Ciotti then raised his hand and was able to speak very quietly. I also raised my hand without getting the word. We have things to say about the construction of prison places. For example, I could have explained to you that there have been more constructions under the previous socialist government than at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis, for these good-looking lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u186	It's my pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u187	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u188	Suffer that we can speak out in the Chamber, Mr Keeper of the Seals: this is the place where the debate must be held. You asked me a question. I have tabled a deletion amendment: I am therefore opposed to this measure. You dress it with virtuous considerations which I hear and respect and which are admissible, but I oppose you that this logic is part of a more global framework. It has been taken over, for years, by this government as well as by the previous one, and even by the time we were in power – I agree, and that is why I did not pass the prison law of 24 November 2009, not because of the provisions on the humanisation of prisons, which were very positive, but because of those relating to the systematic use of sentence adjustment. Generally speaking, you want, like your administration and the prison administration, to limit the use of imprisonment. It's a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u189	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u190	Prison is the only deterrent to curb the rising crime and violence in our country. As for prison places, you have built 1657 since President Macron's arrival. In addition, the construction of most of them had been decided earlier. During his quinquennium, President Hollande built 1400; President Sarkozy, 7000. There's a small gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u191	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u192	We have not done everything perfectly, but I doubt that in a year you will be able to fill it. You are also engaging in a personal questioning of local elected officials. Let me remind you that the Mayor of Nice and I have written to propose the construction of a new prison in Grasse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u193	I wasn't talking about Nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u194	It was you who refused it, it was not the local elected representatives of the Alpes-Maritimes department!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u195	You feel targeted, but I wasn't aiming at you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u196	The best builder was President Chirac!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u197	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 400 and 730. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 400.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u198	This amendment by my colleague Acquaviva is intended to supplement the list of alternative measures which Article 5 intends to promote. It thus seeks to reaffirm the place of judicial review with socio-educational obligations in the list of alternative measures to pre-trial detention, so that the judge of freedoms and detention (JLD) can also consider it when examining the situation of the person.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u199	Mr David Habib's amendment No 730 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u200	He's unfavorable. If house arrest under electronic supervision is not possible after eight months – the judge will then have to justify his decision – judicial supervision with an obligation to work will be even less so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u202	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u203	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u204	I do not understand the rapporteur's argument. This amendment is very interesting. Either the person is placed in pre-trial detention, you say, or is under house arrest under electronic supervision – as if the electronic nature of the surveillance was ultimately the best guarantee. In short, in the absence of electronic monitoring, there would be no monitoring at all, and as a result, judicial controls would not be useful and would not work. This leads to a rather strange logic: if you can't put on a bracelet, then you are placed in pre-trial detention. Often, the main criterion is the technical feasibility survey, which aims to determine whether the person can actually be subjected to it. This is why many magistrates prefer to place the person in pre-trial detention from the first day, as the investigation takes too long and then no longer returns to the case file. Pending the trial, the person remains in prison, regardless of the length of time. You set the deadline at eight months, which, I agree, is a small step forward. But the judge could be allowed to take other measures when, on rest, he acknowledged that the danger had been assessed too quickly at the outset and that he had opted for both the belt and the straps by placing the person in custody. There are other ways in which the person can be kept under control. I believe that this toolbox should be made available to magistrates and should not remain corseted in the electronic nature of surveillance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u205	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u206	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I will be brief, because it seems to me that the debates must remain confined to the scope of the text and that we cannot devote several tens of minutes, as has just been the case, to discussing an amendment with Mr Ciotti or Mrs Ménard, even though they then disappear, while for our part we will devote some time to the examination of this text. (Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Sandrine Mörch applaud.) We are not content with an appearance to make the show on the issue of prison places – I am not speaking for you, Madame Ménard, but for Mr Ciotti. We cannot monopolize the word in this way: other Members are here and this system discourages them from staying longer. You were able to see that I had limited myself to defending this amendment, because it was the same as Mr Castellani had just presented. We could all apply that rule. On the substance, the rapporteur's reply is insufficient, as alternatives to pre-trial detention have been the subject of very interesting reflection throughout the quinquennium. It seemed to us useful for the JLD to be able to embrace all the alternatives opened by the law before deciding once again on pre-trial detention – a subject on which I support the directions of the guard of seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u207	It's not very good as a method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u208	It's much clearer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u209	No, it's not fair play!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u210	Amendments Nos 727 by Mrs Nathalie Porte and 150 by Mr Eric Diard are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u211	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 281 and 633. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u212	It is the result of the recommendations of the National Federation of Women Solidarity – I wanted to clarify that. It is intended to allow the judge of liberty and detention to suspend the right of access and accommodation of the minor child to whom the person wearing an anti-approximation bracelet is entitled if the child fails to comply with his or her obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u213	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 633.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u214	As explained above, it is intended to give the judge of liberty and detention the opportunity to decide on the suspension of the child's right of access and accommodation when an inmate wearing an anti-approximation bracelet has failed to comply with his or her obligations. We ask you for a further step towards the protection of families, especially children, when a man, spouse or former spouse, has failed to comply with the obligations imposed by the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u216	These amendments are satisfied by the law in force: if the person violates his or her obligations, he or she will be arrested and detained. In addition, the criminal judge may take urgent measures to suspend the right of access and accommodation. These provisions already exist within the scope of the law in force. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendments; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u217	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u218	Same opinion: it's satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u219	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u220	I'm going back to my previous remarks. It is satisfied with the law, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, but the problem remains that of enforcement. I have in mind the very specific example of a woman who, as a result of the violence committed by her husband, who was to wear an electronic bracelet, had been able to return to normal working life and engage in associations. Then the spouse was granted access again. From then on, she locked herself up again, because she was afraid of this contact between her husband and her children in the marital home. This is provided for by law, of course, and we will certainly discuss it again following the publication of the report of the inspection mission on the Mérignac affair; But we need to warn about the application of domestic violence legislation. We have passed many laws on this subject, but in fact they are struggling to impose themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u221	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u222	I hear what you're saying, rapporteur. But as my colleague has just pointed out, if there are many provisions in the law, in fact, it is always for women to bury themselves in order to avoid dangerous men. It's starting to do good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u223	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u224	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you are probably much more accustomed than we are to receiving victims of harassment and violence by men. But no later than a week ago, a woman arrived in my permanence in a state of total panic, like a trapped and hunted beast. It's no longer possible for women to be permanently grounded in the face of violent men! Besides, they're breaking the rules. That is why the amendment seeks to suspend the right of access in this case. It is not possible that the law in force may not be applied. It is complicated, it is true, and I agree with you: we must find other solutions, and above all educational solutions, to challenge a patriarchate that is no longer at all acceptable in French society. It is a reality: today, women who are victims of male violence are getting grounded and in a state of panic. We no longer accept it: our amendments may be redundant in relation to the law in force, but we will not withdraw them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u225	I have two identical amendments before me, No 414 corrected and No 731 corrected. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 414 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u226	It is suggested by the Federation Citizens and Justice and aims to encourage the use of socio-educational measures to prevent the renewal of the offence – we remain in the same theme. To date, house arrest under electronic supervision is a device that does not allow for socio-educational accompaniment of the accused. We therefore propose to include specifically in the text the possibility of subjecting it to socio-educational obligations, in order to undertake work to deal with certain problems, in particular through mobilisation around care or psychological care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u227	Amendment No 731 as corrected by Mr David Habib is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u228	I invite you to withdraw these amendments, because they are satisfied. A person placed under electronic supervision may very well be subject to obligations of judicial review, including the duty to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u230	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u231	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u232	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] That is correct, Mr rapporteur, but you are well aware that judges make very little use of this option. That is why we are proposing that this possibility be specifically included in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u233	Is Amendment No 732 by Mr David Habib defended? Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 732.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u234	I am not intended to defend my amendments systematically, Madam President. The latter, which is redundant with the previous one, aims to put the judge in a position to reflect on all possible alternatives to the electronic bracelet or pre-trial detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u235	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support Amendment No. 665 on the additional Rule after Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u236	It is intended to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to expressly provide that pretrial detention may only be used as a last resort, if no other measure can be taken. Therefore, it must be specially motivated. In support of my point, I will take up the argument put forward by the keeper of the seals during the examination of the previous clause and in relation to the entire bill. He stressed that it was very important, necessary, decisive and essential that court decisions should be motivated. This is the minimum guarantee that we are entitled to expect when it comes to locking up, depriving someone who is presumed innocent of their liberty until their trial. We would honour ourselves to recall this order of things and that pre-trial detention must be the exception. Otherwise, we will continue to find that 40 per cent of those in prison are remand prisoners and that we are in a situation of overcrowding. Not to mention the episode of the trial of Viry-Châtillon, who had to shock more than one and in more than one way,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u237	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u238	... in view of the acts that have been committed and their judicial treatment that can be described as chaotic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u240	In our system, deprivation of liberty decisions are fortunately always motivated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u242	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u243	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u244	You misunderstood me, Mr. Rapporteur, Mr. Minister. One moment: I'm going to put myself three quarters, because the minister would risk seeing me if he turned to me to listen to me... The purpose of this amendment is to justify the choice not to use measures other than pre-trial detention, and not pre-trial detention: the logic is therefore a little different. Perhaps this idea seems symbolic to you, but symbols are important. The keeper of the seals himself said earlier about the lengthening of the penalties for breach of the secrecy of the investigation: he acknowledged that this measure was symbolic, but important, in that it gave a political objective and direction. I would therefore like him to share with me his arguments to refuse my proposal and not to oppose his contempt alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u245	Please, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u246	I'm sorry I'm not on the far right...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u247	Mr Bernalicis, please stop these provocations. Otherwise, I will have to interrupt you again as I do right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u248	But who provokes here? Who disrespects who? Beware of personal challenges!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u249	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor in support of Amendment No 259.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u250	In order to restore the legitimate authority of the law enforcement agencies, this amendment aims to extend the use of pretrial detention for persons charged with acts of violence against them or a firefighter. The re-establishment of State authority requires that the violence against the security forces or firefighters be reinvigorated, and that the risks involved be very high if attacked, as soon as the investigation procedure is completed. The aim of this amendment is to reverse the current logic of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides that after an indictment, freedom is the rule and detention is the exception. In cases of violence against security forces, detention would become the rule and freedom the exception, the proposed wording preserving the principle of personalization of sentences. Indeed, it is intolerable for law enforcement officials to be able to meet, almost at the exit of their office, their free assailants, awaiting trial. This would also reduce the number of cases of recidivism. In the wake of the mobilization of the police, this amendment finally aims to reaffirm that the State is concerned about the immediate protection of the representatives of the order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u252	He's unfavorable. I repeat, persons in pre-trial detention have not yet been convicted. We will address this issue later, but when people are convicted of crimes against law enforcement, the prison system is more unfavourable to them than to other detainees. And we will further tighten the criminal treatment of those who commit this type of crime. The committee cannot therefore give an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u254	In that regard, we could also consider the mandatory pre-trial detention of persons involved in cases of embezzlement of public funds and ten years' imprisonment, don't you think? What is this idea of automatic pre-trial detention for alleged innocent persons? I don't know if you realize you're selling us wind, ma'am! First, such a measure would be unconstitutional. Perhaps you should pay more attention to the Constitution, now that you are going to bow to the tomb of General de Gaulle at Colombey-les-Deux-Églises – while your party has been vichyst for years. The Constitution of the Fifth Republic is not nothing: it recalls the principle of the presumption of innocence. Automatic pre-trial detention is the collapse of everything! But I know you're ready for all the demagogies. All of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u255	And the majority only a few!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u256	You're ready for anything to surf at the moment, on the air of time. In the same way, half an hour ago – I remind you for those who were not yet listening to our debates on the parliamentary channel, LCP – you were ready to put the press at a standstill. That's extraordinarily disturbing! I have already had the honour of telling Mrs Le Pen, who very rarely comes to the National Assembly: we are what we say, we say what we are. Automatic temporary detention! Let me tell you that the system you call your vows is the disappearance of the judge! All we have to do is insert a small card into a computer and that would be enough! It would even be nice, 'cause we'd save money. Some have abolished 12,000 police posts, there would be an end to 8,000 judges: the automaticity of pre-trial detention would be fabulous! Do you realize what that would mean? Do you realize the heresy that such a measure represents? Do you realize the meaning of your remarks? You are a real danger to democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u257	And that's not provocation, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u258	But we've all been trivialized... Hannah Arendt was talking about the trivialization of evil. Basically, today we have the right to say everything, whereas if something like that had been said ten years ago, we would have thought we were going crazy. But now it's all going quietly! Go make this kind of statements on your favorite channels! What do you want me to say? I'm disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u259	Who maintains all this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u260	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u261	I would like to go back to the inventory in the Prevert which is made in this amendment with regard to the various law enforcement agencies to which it is addressed. For my part, I believe that attacks on people are serious regardless of the quality of the victim. Therefore, why not add caregivers to the list of people affected by this amendment? They are also regularly victims of assaults, such as in emergency services, or, as far as liberal caregivers are concerned, when they travel home. Why not add teachers or teachers as well? In short, what I find incomprehensible in this amendment is that we are drawing up an inventory at the Prévert which, in the end, excludes everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u262	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u263	It is true that this amendment is completely scandalous, especially after what happened in the case of Viry-Châtillon. This one should make everyone think absolutely. A young man spent four years in prison for nothing! Not two weeks, not three days, but four years! And you want to add it by locking up more innocent people! Yes, freedom is the norm, the rule, and confinement is the exception. The exception, moreover, has been largely trivialized, Minister, you who were talking about the trivialization of evil. In this respect, I would like you to discuss the amendments that are moving in the direction of progress as hard as when you are responding to the extreme right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u264	Yes, discuss those of the far left too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u265	That would be interesting for the public debate. But I wouldn't want to disturb you in your head-to-head! I don't know if it's a honeymoon: you still don't feel like you're on the same line...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u266	Mr Bernalicis, we are moving away from the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u267	No, Madam Chair: we are still discussing the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u268	Let's get back to the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u269	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] If you don't stop cutting me off, we're not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u270	Mr Bernalicis, please leave your Calimero shell and stay with the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u271	The floor is open in this Chamber, Madam President. There's what's called a regulation of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u272	The rules, you spend a lot of time brandishing it, but maybe you should read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u273	[[Same movements]] If you want to do my interventions for me, you just have to come here and take the microphone! Suffer that I'm expressing myself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u274	That is enough: I put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u275	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u276	I ask for a suspension of the sitting so that everyone takes the time to reflect on the organization of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u277	All right! A little calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u278	At the request of the Group of the European People's Party, the meeting was suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u279	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u280	The meeting was resumed. Thank you, Mr Bernalicis, for this necessary oxygenation, which will allow us to discuss the remaining 485 amendments together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u281	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 667.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u282	I will be here until the last amendment, as usual, and I am not afraid of their number. On the other hand, if the minister spends so much time responding to the extreme right, there is a risk that he will not get away with it. But that's how life goes. Amendment No 667 is intended to abolish the term of office of late-filing. I have already defended him in committee and was strangely surprised by the minister's argument, who explained to us that this provision was designed in the interest of the person in question – to allow him, for example, to say goodbye to his family. In fact, it is not at all about this, but it is about being able to incarcerate more, since the deferred filing warrant applies to sentences of less than one year, without the possibility of setting up a sentence. In our discussions, we were told that if we were opposed to the late-filing warrant, it was that we were defending the warrant of committal on the stand – as if there was nothing between the two, as if there could be no warrant of committal on the stand and that the person could not go out free, with a summons to the sentencing judge within ten days, as the code allows and that this is being done today in many cases! In fact, this allows the right and the far right to charge the ministry, pointing to unexecuted sentences, since when the warrant of committal is not handed down on the stand, the sentences fall into the category of unexecuted sentences. I don't know if it's a statistical trick to increase the rate of execution of sentences, but what I know is that, on an equal footing, the late-filing warrant allows for more incarceration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u284	Unfavorable opinion. We have adopted the deferred filing mandate in the 2018-2022 Programming and Justice Reform Act (JRP). It's a useful tool, which works well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u286	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u287	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u288	I voted against the programming bill, and my group had tabled an amendment to delete it. You say that this is a measure that works well, but I would like to know how many late-filing warrants are issued, because I am not sure that the mechanism is really being used by the judiciary and the courts. If the aim is simply to allow the convicted person time to prepare his or her affairs and say goodbye to his or her family and relatives before being summoned to the registry of the prison service and to be imprisoned to serve his or her sentence, he or she is already satisfied in the current state of the Code of Criminal Procedure, without the need for a warrant of deferred filing. Once again, this deferred filing warrant prevents, on an equal footing, from going through the sentencing procedure, and it is a huge difference! You can gargle yourself on sentencing arrangements, which are a great alternative to incarceration and the best way to prevent recidivism: in this case, you adopt a measure whose merits you boast with false arguments! It is unbearable, as is the very painful strategy of the minister, who continues to ostensibly turn my back and talk to someone else! We understood, minister, that you were on a campaign for the regionals; But I too, at the top of this House, am a candidate, and yet I am taking care of the text: it is a clear difference between the two of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u289	It's been a lot of invectives since this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u290	Amendment No 545 by the rapporteur is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u291	Amendment No 729 corrected by Mrs Nathalie Porte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u292	I call Mr Gomès to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u293	The aim is to restore the text to its original wording and to make it optional at the pre-trial criminal hearing. While giving these hearings a legal basis is a good thing, all the professionals we interviewed said that they did not want them to become mandatory, because it could be time-consuming and result in the opposite result of the one sought. We therefore hope that it will be up to the President of the Assize Court to judge whether the pre-trial criminal hearing is necessary in the case concerned or whether it is likely to be a waste of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u295	By adopting an amendment tabled by Dimitri Houbron, the committee has taken on the principle of a mandatory preparatory hearing, in a rather flexible way of implementation, to which we shall return shortly. This is therefore an unfavorable opinion, because we believe it is necessary to retain its binding character at this very useful preparatory meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u296	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 293 and 528. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u297	Initially, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats proposed that the preparatory hearing be optional and that it be held only if everyone agrees. It was the opposite principle, defended by Dimitri Houbron, that prevailed, i.e. that the hearing will take place unless all interested parties wish it not to take place. This amendment reconciles the two approaches in a way, because we want to be pragmatic and implement only what is necessary. He proposed that the hearing could be held by any means of communication, including by telephone, in order to avoid unnecessary and time-consuming travel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u298	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 528.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u299	These amendments are intended to meet the commitment made in the Law Committee to ensure that the criminal preparatory hearing, although mandatory, does not turn into a waste of time, but instead makes it win, allowing the parties to agree beforehand on the witnesses to be heard, in order to prevent some from crossing France without having any interest in the matter. That being said, we heard the arguments of our MODEM friends, who pleaded for a simple procedure. Hence this amendment, which maintains the mandatory nature of this hearing while at the same time making its organisational arrangements extremely flexible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u301	Favourable opinion on these compromise amendments which maintain the mandatory nature of the criminal preparatory hearing while allowing for very flexible implementation by the actors involved in the trial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u302	Amendments Nos 754 and 753 by Mr Buon Tan are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u303	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 538 and 615. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 538.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u304	The purpose of this amendment is to provide that the criminal preparatory hearing must seek agreement not only on the list of witnesses and experts to be called at the hearing and on their order of testimony, but also on the modalities of their appearance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u305	Amendment No 615 by Pierre Vatin is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u306	Unfavorable opinion: we want flexibility not only in implementation, but also in determining the content.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u307	Amendments Nos 460 and 767 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u308	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 227, 359, 429 and 529. Amendment No 227 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended. I call Mr Philippe Benassaya to support Amendment No. 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u309	Article 6, paragraph 15, reinforces the conditions of majority to be obtained in the court of assizes in order to obtain the conviction of an accused person. By this amendment I propose to retain the requirement of a majority of six jurors instead of seven.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u310	Amendments Nos 429 by Mr Eric Ciotti and 529 by Mr Dimitri Houbron are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u311	I do not agree, but I will allow the minister to speak on a subject that is dear to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u313	In 2011, the power in place decreased the number of jurors in first instance. For the first time in our history, a decision of guilt could be made without an absolute majority of jurors. This has distorted popular sovereignty, and I wanted to restore it. We could increase the number of jurors, but we know that it is sometimes difficult to bring them together. It also costs money, but it's not really the subject. I did not wish to upset the balances that had been found, I simply wished to affirm that this jurisdiction is a people's jurisdiction, with true popular sovereignty. That is why I wanted to have one more juror voice: to restore, in essence, popular sovereignty as we have known it in our history since the creation of the Court of Assizes. That is the point of this proposal. I would also like to say that I have asked a committee composed of a large majority of magistrates, including the great presidents of the Courts of Assizes, to work on this issue. I would like to pay tribute to the chairman of this committee, Mr Getti, who has presided over the siege of Paris for many years. It seemed to us normal that popular sovereignty should not be a vain word. That is why we wanted to make a difference. Change them to the margin because, I repeat, it would have been possible to change everything and bring back jurors, but it would also have taken additional jurors to appeal, so that there would have been a difference. I didn't want to tackle that. I simply wanted to reaffirm things as we know them. The foundation of the Court of Assizes is to recall that it is the people who judge, the people in whose name the justice of our country is done. You know that at the end of any judicial decision, it is written that it is given in the name of the French people. When it is the French people who are at the helm, if you allow me this familiarity, it is normal for them to be able to express themselves in the majority. Opinions against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u314	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u315	I would like to support the argument that has just been put forward by Mr. Keeper of the Seals. I think it's an excellent thing to re-establish the majority of jurors in the guilty decision that will be rendered. This decision must belong to the jurors, except to remove from the assize court its character of popular justice. It is true that up to now a minority of jurors could be content with decisions of guilt, and it is a good thing to put an end to this practice. That is why our group will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u316	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u317	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The Socialist and Related Group supports what Mr. Keeper of the Seals has said; We will vote against these amendments. Let me note, however, that what you have expressed about popular sovereignty justifies our opposition to the generalization of criminal courts. But as far as this article is concerned, I would like to say that we are very much in favour of what is proposed. Judges should not feel it as an outrageous gesture towards them, but rather as the consideration of popular sovereignty alongside magistrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u318	Mr Antoine Savignat, in support of Amendment No. 364, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u319	In the same spirit and following the same objective as the Government's proposed scheme, it proposes a different method of calculation to strengthen the sovereignty of the popular jury. We propose not to affect the number of six, but to specify that the decision must include at least four jurors. It would have the merit of restoring the preponderance of the jurors, since they could take over the magistrates. Even if there was no unanimity among the three judges, the jurors could win.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u321	Your system is not possible because the decision is made by secret ballot. So we can't know who voted what. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u322	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 544.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u323	It aims to reverse the verdict. The epilogue of a sitting trial can be a rather difficult time for both the accused and the victim, as it is very long and often comes at the end of a trial that has itself been very long. In the current system, the President first reads the texts that form the basis of the proceedings, and therefore the decision; It is sometimes very long, and the practice is to consider them to be read, i.e. to ask lawyers to give up reading all the articles. Next, we read the statement of all the questions that have been put to the court: in some trials, ten, twenty, thirty or forty questions can be listed by the president of the court of assizes. It has to be said that at that time, there is the accused in the box, the victim opposite, and everyone is suspended from waiting for the decision. It is only after these long and long minutes that the President of the Assize Court will render his decision. It's always a very difficult time to understand. The idea would be to give the president, with the agreement of the accused, the opportunity to pronounce the verdict from the beginning of his speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u324	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u325	If I had to say everything about these moments, I'd need hours, but I'll just take a few seconds. This is probably the longest and most mortifying moment that can be considered. The lives of the beings are changing, the lives of the victims and the lives of the accused who, for long minutes, wait to know what their future will be. It is very slow, reading, because we evoke articles following a kind of ceremonial, I would even say a liturgy of the court of assizes, which is extremely heavy. We could reduce it by saying right away what the verdict of the Assize Court is. The victims are waiting for him. A story comes to mind. The Assize Court stated that it had responded negatively to all questions relating to guilt. A lady, who is the defendant's mother, does not understand the word "negatively". She thinks it's a negative verdict. She's falling in the apples. Suspension, not a sitting, but a hearing; We need to revive her. She then discovered that it was an acquittal. This ceremonial is unbearable. We can say things with simple words, as we do in corrections, where the accused is brought in and we say to him: "After having deliberated, the court or court has decided, etc. This is what I would like to put in place in the court of seats. It is not, either, a revolution, but why not do things more simply every time we can do it? Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u326	Amendments Nos 151 and 152 by Mr Eric Diard are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u327	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 666.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u328	It is an amendment of consistency. We proposed earlier to remove the court's ability to issue a warrant of deferment in correctional matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u329	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u330	We therefore propose that this possibility in criminal matters should also be abolished. I don't even know if it's used very much, because I still haven't had an answer from the seal keeper. It is important to remain within the framework provided for by law, without adding a new element that would allow for further incarceration on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u332	Again, I admire the merits of the mechanism that we have adopted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u334	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u335	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u336	I understand the arguments of the seal keeper and I must say that I do not share them. He simply said that he was against the amendment, which is a shame, because I would like to know how many deferred deposit warrants have been issued since the measure was in force and what they were used for. In concrete terms, they do not allow the convicted person to benefit from an adjustment of sentence for a penalty of less than one year. That's what the deferred deposit warrant will be used for! I repeat, it is not the warrant of committal issued on the stand, or nothing. That is not true, it is not the reality of the functioning of the decisions made at each hearing. The police organisations sometimes deplore this, as well as the extreme right of the House, but these are interesting ways of carrying out the sentence. This one is not, because it will allow for more incarceration. I thought that was not your political objective; It's the one you're reaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u337	Amendment No 737 by Mrs Nathalie Porte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u338	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u339	It is based on Rules 98 and 99 of the Rules of Procedure on the examination and tabling of amendments. I take the opportunity of the end of the examination of Article 6 to formally request that amendment No. 707 of La France insubstantial, which was declared inadmissible under Article 45 of the Constitution, be reviewed when it was intended to amend provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which are close to the point of reference to the law. I would like the same rule to be applied to everyone. I am not saying that the Government's amendment should not be considered; It would be a great pleasure for me to discuss this, if Mr. Keeper of the Seals is to reply. But I would like ours to receive equal treatment and to reconsider its inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u340	Government amendment No. 877 on the reminder of the law is similar to an amendment by Mr Pauget. I take note of your question and will send you an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u341	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet's amendment No. 613, introducing an additional article after Article 6, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u342	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 668.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u343	It aims to experiment with the presence of popular jurors in correctional courts, police courts and commercial courts, in order to broaden the scope of justice to which citizens have access so that justice can be done on behalf of the French people. This story comes from far away, as it comes from the French Revolution. It is true that during the revolutionary period, it was first a measure of distrust towards the magistrates and the functioning of the old regime. The jurors were at the side of the magistrates to ensure that the law was respected. We have now moved on, and when jurors get involved in a trial, there are very positive consequences for themselves and for society, which is growing up collectively. I propose to resume the experiment left behind by President Sarkozy, who had not achieved the political objective he expected. He hoped that the citizens who were sworn in alongside the magistrates in corrections would ensure that the magistrates were sufficiently strict, which was roughly the opposite of the objective of the French Revolution. In reality, deep and long history has returned to the front of the stage to deny it, because what happened during Nicolas Sarkozy's experiment? The jurors were less severe than the magistrates in correctional! Abandonment of device, etc. What I'm proposing is not to be more severe or less severe – that's not the point. The goal is that as many of our fellow citizens as possible will be able to get involved in the work of justice in our country. This is the best way to restore confidence in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u345	Unfavorable opinion; We have had this debate in committee for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u347	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u348	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u349	I will stand by and continue to argue as much as necessary. My remarks will certainly be echoed in our discussion on the generalization of departmental criminal courts. The title of the bill, although presumptuous in view of its current content, refers to the right question: "trust in the judicial institution". It is clear that when our fellow citizens are actively involved in the work of justice, their discussions are no longer those of the café du commerce. I said that at the time: by chance, one of my close friends was drawn by lot to serve as a juror as we were examining the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill. He's been transformed. Anyone who has already met a former juror will tell you the same experience – it is an objective reality. This is the best way to advance confidence in justice. Of course, once again, it requires means – we have to draw up lists, organize the drawing of lots, the procedure is complicated, not everyone agrees to be designated and there are exceptions to be taken into account. I do not say otherwise, but it is not always easy to achieve laudable political objectives. If financial resources were to be allocated, I would prefer them to be allocated here, to improve the work of justice and the involvement of the people in justice,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u350	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u351	...to be returned on her behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u352	I have before me an amendment No 512 to delete Article 6a. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u353	We have already had the debate on the deletion of this article in committee. If one understands the concern to simplify the procedure, is the solution really to reduce the number of references to the poles of instruction? Would it not be preferable to provide each court with such a pole? As is well known, the collegiality of the investigation sometimes avoids the errors of judgment that a single investigating judge may make. The great miscarriages of justice in our country are well explained by the solitude of the investigating judge, not to mention the cases that remain pending decades after the crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u355	You will understand, Mr Brindeau, that I am very opposed to your amendment, since I am at the origin of the provision that you are criticising today. Would it be ideal for all departments, or in any case all courts, to have a centre of investigation? This would not necessarily be a good thing, for in some departments, including my own, there are too few criminal cases to justify the presence of an investigation centre with three magistrates in the judicial court of the capital. The mechanism provided for in the article therefore avoids the systematic referral of criminal cases that will come before the district criminal court tomorrow before the investigation centre. The collegiality that the investigation centres were supposed to allow did not work and when the cases were complex, they were at best subject to co-referral. We will, moreover, continue to send to the judges of the investigation centre, so that they can join in, the cases that deserve it, that is to say those outside the ordinary framework of criminal cases. I welcome this arrangement and am pleased that the seal keeper has followed my proposal. We will gain in judicial proximity; the most serious cases, criminal cases, will be dealt with as close as possible to the place where the persons concerned live, to the place where the crime was committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u356	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u357	The mechanism is therefore in keeping with our desire to provide a readable criminal response that restores the confidence of our fellow citizens in the judicial institution. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u358	I call Mr Eric Woerth to support Amendment No. 344.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u359	For my part, I am in favour of the poles of education. The old debate on this subject, which is more than ten years old, has been carried out in pain – as always, when it comes to reorganization, everyone has defended their positions. But ten or twelve years after its creation, this mechanism has proved its usefulness and effectiveness, because collegiality and consistency of skills are important. But this article will lead to a review of all this, to the break-up of the poles of instruction. As is often the case in France, ten years after taking a measure, we do the opposite. Such round trips are unbearable. And I do not think you are measuring the impact of this provision adopted in committee: finally, 50%, 60% or 80% of criminal cases will probably be dealt with by local courts. Your goal, if I understand correctly, is to avoid that litigants, lawyers, etc., have to move too far from the place where the crime was committed. We can understand this: it is better for justice to be close, rather than far away. So we could go in your direction, but only in cases where the department does not have an education centre. In departments with such poles, these allow a rather useful balance – although often achieved in pain, I repeat – between the different courts. You need to measure the impact that the measure will have on the reorganization of judicial services in all departments. In my opinion, this one will escape you. It should therefore be clarified that the measure does not concern the judicial courts of departments with a centre of investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u360	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u361	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u362	Mr Woerth, you would like to reserve the derogation from referral to the education centres only to departments which do not have such centres, in order to avoid the distance between the place of investigation and the place where the persons concerned live, the place where the facts were committed. You are therefore referring to the case of departments which have both a judicial court with an investigating judge and a centre of investigation. But there are very few examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u363	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u364	And even in these cases, the device remains relevant. In fact, the courts with an investigating judge are intended to deal with so-called simple criminal cases. It is only when the facts are complex that the cases will continue to shift in front of the investigation centre, to allow a co-referral, i.e. a double look at an investigation file. The training hubs are currently overloaded. Let us reduce them from a few cases, which will be entrusted to the courts and investigating judges of the courts without such poles. In fact, they only ask for this, as we can see when we discuss it with them: they regret not being able to investigate very simple criminal cases, sometimes much simpler than correctional cases involving several sponsors such as drug trafficking, for example. The proposed system is efficient and will restore balance. It corresponds to the wishes of the investigating magistrates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u365	Yes, absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u366	...including, I can assure you, those who work in the poles of education. They are under water because they have to deal with many cases: in addition to the cases of the judicial court to which they are attached, they have to investigate very simple criminal cases, which could be dealt with by the neighbouring judicial court. I am therefore against the amendment, despite its intellectual relevance. And then, in departments with both a judicial court with an investigation centre and a judicial court without one, we envisage – why not – allowing the departmental criminal court to sit in both of them tomorrow. A case which would have paid off the chronicle because of a major breach of public order and which would fall within the jurisdiction of a judicial court without an investigation centre could then be investigated and tried by the court, within the framework of the departmental criminal court. We would thus gain in proximity, which is one of the objectives of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u367	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u368	Mr Woerth, I fully understand the meaning of your amendment, which is very relevant. However, it appears schematically from the expertise of my services with the magistrates that the judges of the poles must deal with too many criminal cases, whereas the judges "outside the poles", if you allow me the expression, do not deal with any of them and complain about them. I am thinking in particular of simple criminal cases. To investigate such cases is also part of the magistrate's training. This measure, which brings homogeneity, is extremely expected by the magistrates of our country. I am therefore against your amendment, although I understand the reasons. I repeat, many magistrates want to deal with criminal cases, and that is understandable. Besides not being insensitive to their wishes, it will be useful to distribute the criminal cases that will not be returned to the pole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u369	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u370	I hear what the rapporteur and the minister are saying. I do, however, draw from discussions with the magistrates I know – I can be mistaken, obviously not having the national vision of the keeper of seals – the feeling that we are moving towards the devitalization of the poles of investigation. Prosecutors – since the decision will be in their hands, I think – will keep the cases in the courts under their jurisdiction – the difference between simple and complicated is not so obvious. This will require the transfer of investigative judges from the poles to the courts that do not have them and the return to the distribution of previous cases. I am very afraid that this will lead, in one, two or three years, to a rather simple project: to remove the poles of instruction or to create specialized poles here or there. It is a danger: your good intentions could eventually devitalize a reform that has shown its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u371	Is Amendment No 325 by Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u372	The rapporteur's amendment No 461 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u373	I have before me four identical amendments to the additional article after Article 6a, Nos 784, 547, 625 and 816. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u374	The purpose of this amendment is to create one or more specialized centres for the treatment of serial, complex or unsolved crimes. Like the identical amendments tabled by several Members, it fully supports the recommendations of the working group on the judicial treatment of unsolved cases – called in an anglicism that is always cruel to my ears cold cases – and serial crimes and other complex crimes, created by the management of criminal cases and pardons in July 2019. The particularly rich report submitted to us in March 2021 contains twenty-six recommendations, some of which require amendments to the law. The Committee recommends that the most complex procedures be centralized in order to facilitate the consolidation of cases, the specialization of judges and the conduct of investigations into the life course of the alleged perpetrator. Through the creation of a specialized centre with national competence or, if necessary, of two or three specialized centres, the judicial institution will enhance its effectiveness in elucidating the facts of particular gravity. This concentration will make it possible to reconcile the complex procedures scattered throughout the territory, linked to serial or unsolved facts, and thus to adapt the judicial map to this type of crime without geographical limits. This amendment incorporates more precisely and appropriately the provisions that are included at this stage in section 10 of the bill. It makes things clearer: it will not be an extension of the specialised interregional courts (JIRS). Finally, this amendment provides that the genetic fingerprints of the victims of these crimes may be entered in the national DNA fingerprint file, so that they can be kept there for further comparisons, in particular in case of serial events. The Provenret case demonstrates the interest of such a device – several DNAs corresponding to one of its victims had been shown on a mattress belonging to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u375	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 547.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u376	I would like to thank the Government for having taken up, by specifying and supplementing it, the appeal amendment that we tabled in committee – even if you did not mention it, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. The aim of this amendment was to create such a centralized pole, since one or two additional poles are not prohibited. I do not take up the points you have made, minister. This pole will make it possible to be more efficient. We understood well, as well as our fellow citizens, that justice was not well equipped to deal with cases such as the Provenret case. There are about 300 unsolved cases in France. The idea is to be able to cross the wires and group these procedures together, in particular to find out if there is not a similar modus operandi. This is obviously in the right direction and should help to elucidate at least some of these cases. The creation of this pole must also allow for a better reception of victims, which is an essential parameter. It will also be the point of entry for requests for mutual assistance, since such cases and crimes have often, as we know, international extensions. I pay tribute to all the judges, clerks and lawyers who have worked on this issue. Seized by the dean of investigating judges in Paris, I was able, thanks to them, to prepare this amendment, which was reworked by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u377	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u378	I would also like to thank the Government for translating, by way of amendment, the ambition expressed by our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky, whom I welcome for his work on this very specific issue. The Action Together group is pleased to support, alongside other groups of the majority, the creation of a national pole for serial crimes; It seems essential to us in today's society. We welcome this development, which will be included in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u379	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia to support Amendment No. 816.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u380	I too welcome the work done by our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky, in connection with the services of the Chancellery, as the seal keeper has supported these provisions. I also welcome the work of Judge Sabine Kheris, her clerk Valérie Duby and Masters Corinne Herrmann and Didier Seban, who have been able to share with us, with great conviction and pugnacity, the difficulties associated with the treatment of serial crimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u381	The rapporteur has the floor to support the amended sub-amendments Nos. 858 and 859, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u382	They're editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u383	What is the Government's opinion on these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u384	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u385	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u386	I am in favour of the creation of this specialised jurisdiction, even if it cannot, as we know, completely solve the equation. We have seen this with the creation of the JUNALCO, the national court responsible for combating organised crime, since the number has remained constant: they were previously twenty in Paris; There are now thirteen on one side and seven on the other. In any case, the creation of a specialized court, which will allow cases to be brought together in the same place, does not pose any difficulty. Nevertheless, a fundamental question arises: is a reorganization planned with the Ministry of the Interior, so that there are dedicated staff, e.g. a particular central office, in relation to this new specialized jurisdiction? Indeed, it will be necessary for investigations to be conducted and investigations to be carried out. As far as justice is concerned, the idea of using specialized assistants is obviously not a problem for us. But how are things going to be on the inside side? Will we go to the end of logic? I would like some guidance on this from the Government. I note – and it is not a pike on my part – that M6 will soon be broadcasting a programme devoted to the unsolved serial crimes, these famous cold cases, in which the Ministries of the Interior and Justice will participate. Is that part of the framework we are talking about? At the very least, I would like to see appropriate investigative services alongside this new jurisdiction. A communication plan may be useful, especially to find witnesses, but I'm a little surprised at how things are done in this show.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u387	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u388	I would like to say in my turn all the good that we think of this mechanism. On behalf of the Republican Group, I thank Mrs Vichnievsky for having carried out this work and the Government for having taken it over. If the creation of this new jurisdiction allows families to see the elucidation of previously unexplained, inexplicable and misunderstood facts, we will of course only be able to rejoice at the result achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u389	I have before me fourteen identical amendments Nos 4, 22, 37, 46, 123, 228, 335, 358, 401, 500, 617, 670, 687 and 813 to delete Article 7. Amendments Nos 4 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, 22 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet, 37 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo and 46 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet are defended. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u390	Article 7 raises questions, both in substance and in form. Indeed, the establishment of departmental criminal courts was provided for, by Article 63 of the Law of 23 March 2019 of programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice, for an experimental period of three years. Article 63 further provided that an evaluation would eventually be conducted to enable the legislator to decide whether or not to generalize these criminal courts. However, it appears that the duration has not come to an end. In addition, the Government did not provide the well-known assessment in question. In its opinion on the bill, published on 14 April, the Council of State expressed concern that the system of criminal courts was widespread "without having given rise to the assessment which was planned and which is necessary to enable the legislator to carry out this generalization with the elements necessary for its assessment". I'm coming to the bottom. According to your explanations, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, the lowest rate of appeal would attest that these courts are satisfactory to the parties to the trials. However, the call rate cannot reflect a satisfaction rate. Thus, a convicted person may waive the appeal because he or she considers that his or her conviction is likely to be lower than the one he or she would get on appeal, for example against a popular jury. Moreover, the slightest requalification of crimes, particularly for sexual offences, cannot justify the abandonment of popular juries. Nor can speeding up procedures be an argument. Justice is done on behalf of the French people. Therefore, it seems surprising to exclude popular juries at first instance from almost 60% of criminal cases. This amendment is intended to delete Article 7. On the one hand, by providing for the generalization of criminal courts without prior assessment, it ignores the provisions of article 63 of the law of 23 March 2019. On the other hand, it tends to reduce the use of popular juries at first instance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u391	Amendments Nos 228 by Mr Robin Reda and 335 by Mr Stéphane Viry are being defended. Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 358.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u392	I too am asking for the deletion of Article 7, which aims to generalize the departmental criminal courts created on an experimental basis by the former seal guard, Nicole Belloubet. Indeed, this measure will put an end to the tradition of popular juries in the assize courses. These juries, however, are a strong symbol of the fact that justice is done on behalf of the French people. In my view, the replacement of jurors by professional judges will only serve to keep justice from the citizens a little further, even though it is already increasingly misunderstood. This will give the image of a fairly technocratic justice, disconnected from the people it is supposed to represent. I find this measure all the more incomprehensible because it is surprising in the current context and in relation to the policies of the Government and the majority, which multiply the forums and conventions of citizens. Citizens are involved by drawing lots everywhere, except in the courts to do justice, while this tradition dates back to the Revolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u393	Amendment No 401 by Mr Jean-Michel Clément is being defended. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 500.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u394	It is also intended to delete Article 7. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have repeatedly recalled that before you became Minister of Justice, you were very opposed to the principle of departmental criminal courts, but that you had changed your mind. Of course, no one can blame anyone for changing their mind, taking into account the evolution of the situation. Agree, however, that the system of departmental criminal courts had been provided for on an experimental basis, for three years and in a limited number of territories, and that it was intended to be evaluated for the duration of time in order to decide on the desirability of generalizing it. According to the evaluations carried out at this stage and the upsurges, you say, the scheme would be satisfactory on several points: the call rate would be lower; The correction of certain cases, including rape cases, would be avoided. What bothers us is the haste with which you intend to generalize it, probably because of the time frame for this bill to be considered, which is more comprehensive. On this and other issues, we could have taken the necessary time to complete the experiment and validate its benefits, before imagining its generalization and drawing the consequences for the organisation of the courts, including with regard to the human means – namely the magistrates and judicial personnel who should be made available to the departmental criminal courts. A subsequent article of the draft law provides that the mechanism can be supplemented by temporary magistrates or even honorary lawyers performing judicial functions. We will thus avoid that the generalization of departmental criminal courts turns to a problem of organization and means in the courts! We do not ask for a halt to the experiment, but we oppose its generalisation now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u395	Amendment No 617 by Pierre Vatin is being defended. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 670.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u396	We are also opposed to the generalization of departmental criminal courts. In fact, we were opposed to experimentation, and our convictions did not change in this regard; our arguments remain similar. We are in favour of extending the number of places and times in which the people are directly associated, through jurors, with the work of justice. However, departmental criminal courts will reduce the number of assize trials. It is also a part of their goal, which is twofold: less correction and less trials of assizes. The latter, being pointed out for their length and the delay in obtaining a hearing date, are the primary target. However, no valuation was made regarding the loss of jurors. Those who will not sit on the future seats – who will no longer exist – have not been questioned. The former jurors were also not heard for the purpose of obtaining their opinion on a trial course composed of five professional magistrates. I mentioned earlier the history of the birth of jurors during the French Revolution; In fact, we have concluded that it is necessary to return to true popular sovereignty in the decision, to a majority of seven instead of six. On the other hand, Article 7 considers that five professional magistrates are sufficient. I don't know on which foot you want to dance: you are sometimes pro-jured, even if you want less, and sometimes in favour of professional magistrates. I do not understand the logic, except that of flow management, which I disagree with. If you want to better manage the flows, increase the resources and fill as much as possible the National School of the Judiciary: this would be a good start already!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u397	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 687.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u398	I will be very fast, so as not to prolong the debate on this subject, which we have already discussed a great deal in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. As I said at the time of the motion for a preliminary rejection, many Members, on all sides of the opposition, express their disagreement with such a rapid generalisation and their willingness to safeguard the sittings, although reformed and simplified, but still with a popular jury.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u399	Amendment No 813 by Mr Gomès is being defended. On Amendments Nos 4 and 4 which are identical, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u400	The trial of the departmental criminal court was voted in 2019, at the time of the PJA. I said it in committee: if this had not been an experiment, I am not sure that I would have voted in favour of it, because I am viscerally attached to the court of assizes, like many of you, especially practitioners. I've always said that I won't be the gravedigger of the assize court. The experiment was launched to try to overcome a difficulty. The situation of the assize courts is as follows: thirteen months of stock of business and up to forty months of delay for a case to be heard. Meanwhile, pretrial detention is very long for those who are presumed innocent and the victims remain awaiting a judgement that will recognize them as victims. Sometimes, files that would deserve to be taken to the assize court are reoriented, through correction, to correctional courts because it is faster. These are very often rape cases. That is the situation we have tried to find a solution to. The experiment has not been completed. At present, that is true: we have not reached the end of the three years planned. Mr. Brindeau has clearly identified the difficulty: today we have a legislative vehicle; If we do not make a decision within this framework, in a year we will no longer be able to direct the cases leaving the investigation to the departmental criminal court. So we have to find a solution by then. If the departmental criminal court is a good thing, it must already be sustained; Otherwise, unless we extend the experiment, we will find ourselves in difficulty. Experiments are often prolonged, but in this case it would be a matter of prolonging, in the medium to long term, a situation which is not very satisfactory, since for similar criminal acts, we have two different judicial treatments in the territory. So we cannot afford to continue this experiment for too long, which treats people differently according to where the crime was committed. With this text, we wish to perpetuate the departmental criminal court. We do this not with a wet finger, but on the basis of several evaluations. I realized one of them, as rapporteur of a flash mission; I was accompanied by Antoine Savignat. He may speak on this subject, but it is interesting to quote it, because he was fiercely hostile to the departmental criminal court during the review of the PJA. After hearing the parties involved in these trials in the context of this mission, he can now say very objectively that this is a relevant procedure, that this court has found its place and that it is intended to be sustainable. Mrs Untermaier, Mr Bernalicis, I acknowledge that with Antoine Savignat, we did not audition all the lawyers and magistrates of France. But we have heard lawyers who have pleaded before a departmental criminal court and magistrates who have sat there, which seems interesting to me. I hear the criticisms about the system that we want to sustain, but sometimes they come from people who have never set foot or sat in a departmental criminal court. The a priori are legitimate, because one can, as a matter of principle, be viscerally attached to the popular juries; But we have tried to forge a conviction from those who have lived the experience and who make the departmental criminal courts live. We have even gone further than the hearings: we have immersed ourselves in departmental criminal court trials, on the bench. We were able to see how the accused and the victim were treated, how the president was able to support the hearing, and how lawyers could best assist their clients. We realized that it was not a cheap justice. It is not a super-correctional court or a sub-court of assizes, but a full court, which deals with crimes in an agreed and solemn setting, taking the time to judge in a very qualitative manner. Together with Antoine Savignant, we have noted the best practices and the various points to be sustained in this bill. We have had two principles voted in committee to which we are very committed in order to maintain the quality of justice provided by the departmental criminal courts. First, the orality of the debates. The Court of Assizes is a place where debates are held, in a setting where orality is the principle. This principle must be retained in the departmental criminal courts, which is the guarantee of a good quality of justice. We have included it in the bill: the principle of the orality of the debate will apply. Secondly, if the orality of the debates lives in practice before the departmental criminal courts, it is because they are presided over by presidents of assize courts. The latter must continue to preside over them – this is also a guarantee of justice. That is what we voted in committee. I have presented to you the results that Antoine Savignat and I have drawn from this experiment. It is contained in our report, on the basis of which we have tabled amendments and improved the text proposed by the Government. The Getti report overlaps our conclusions with 90%. Mr. Jean-Pierre Getti is not just anyone: he is a great president of the court of assizes, now honorary magistrate, broken up in criminal proceedings, criminal proceedings and in the court of assizes. In his report, he says with other legal professionals that the departmental criminal court works, renders justice of very good quality, and is relevant to the objectives assigned to it. The services of the Chancellery have also recently published a report, prepared by Anne-Marie Gallen, which is now available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Its conclusions are identical: the departmental criminal courts render justice of quality, effective in the service rendered to our fellow citizens. In her report, Ms Gallen indicated that the time limits for trial before the departmental criminal courts were ten months, whereas they were two to three times longer in the assize court; This alone is a qualitative criterion that we must take into account. To be tried in ten months, while in twenty or even thirty, before the court of assizes, is essential, both for the accused and for the victim. I do not know if "satisfaction rate" is the appropriate term, but the appeal rate of the judgements rendered by the Assize Court is 32 per cent, while that of the judgments rendered by a departmental criminal court is 21 per cent. This is an important element that must be taken into account in our analysis of this text. [[Ms. Laetitia Avia applauds]] These are the explanations I wanted to give you. The assize court will continue to exist; it remains the jurisdiction of the most serious crimes, for which the penalties incurred exceed 20 years of criminal imprisonment. When there is an appeal from a decision of a departmental criminal court at first instance, it will be considered by the Assize Court. With the mechanism presented by the keeper of the seals, relating to the qualified majority required to pronounce the guilt leading to a conviction for the person who appeared before the court of assizes, now set at seven instead of six, there is a clear desire to affirm even more what the court of assizes should be and the expression of popular sovereignty. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Between the departmental criminal court and the court of assizes, we have a coherent and efficient mechanism in the criminal centres, which will improve the quality of justice and restore trust, in accordance with the objective we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u401	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u402	Unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u403	The rapporteur has been particularly thorough and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u404	Oh! Still, a few words...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u405	A little word maybe. Criminal offences against narcotics legislation are not tried by the popular jury, nor are criminal terrorist offences. I had fears about the departmental criminal court. Because I want to be realistic and I'm not here to put my fantasies into practice as a former lawyer, I'm forced to recognize its proper functioning. I have looked at things with great objectivity, I have read the parliamentary report and that of Mr.Getti – who is a great President of the Court of Assizes –, assisted by many magistrates. The experiment has been working since September 2019 and we cannot maintain two criminal systems. We need to be homogenized, and this legislative vector provides us with the opportunity. I would also like to tell you that the rate of acquittal is the same – 6% – in departmental criminal courts and assize courts. For the most serious offences, the French will always appear before the assize court, and – this is very important – it will remain the appellate jurisdiction of the departmental criminal courts. I will add only one point: this measure solves the serious problem of the correction of rapes, which is badly felt by the victims. Sometimes, let's say, the correctional court is as harsh as the criminal court would have been. Nevertheless, to say that rape is not a rape because of an embolism of jurisdiction is a symbolically extraordinarily difficult position to hold. When we examined Billon's bill to protect minors from sexual crimes and incest, we created new crimes, which will be tried by the departmental courts. Again, there is a risk of embolization. Within this jurisdiction, the deadlines are much, much faster, which is not nothing. Fluidity contributes to proximity. Our compatriots find it difficult to understand that it is sometimes necessary to wait forty months for a sitting court hearing. All these elements must be taken into account. I didn't want to demolish, because I want to build. I was greatly criticized for what I said; I don't deny them. Many also parliamentary lawyers said like me that they had for a moment feared the disappearance of the assize court. That is why I reaffirm its importance as a manifestation of full popular sovereignty. I therefore express an opinion against these deletion amendments. Whether we like it or not, this jurisdiction, objectively, works well. The idea is not to demolish, but to perpetuate a functioning device. That's why I want the departmental criminal court to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u406	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u407	I was one of those who defended the creation of departmental criminal courts during the review of Ms. Belloubet's Justice Programming and Reform Bill. A positive sign accompanied the launch of this experiment: many jurisdictions have asked to participate. Stéphane Mazars and Antoine Savignant's report confirmed that these courses were an effective tool for solemnly judging many crimes punishable by 15 or 20 years' imprisonment within a reasonable and acceptable time frame. There are five professional magistrates. We now know that these jurisdictions have made decisions that are probably less dangerous than those of the Assize Courts, and also better understood. The "satisfaction rate" – even if it is not the right word – illustrates it. A quality, professional, solemn and faster justice that better meets the expectations of the victims and avoids the correction of rapes, to which all professionals are opposed, but which was indispensable: our group will not vote for these abolition amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u408	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u409	I maintain that opportunities for jurors to get involved in trials should be increased rather than reduced. Again, this has nothing to do with the expression of trust or distrust towards magistrates: this is not the subject. The aim is to restore confidence in the judicial institution and to ensure that the greatest number of people are involved. The departmental criminal court will face pitfalls. Not all returns are so positive; Some are, others less, I will not get into this debate. The speed with which the Ministry of Justice publishes a report to defend article 7 suggests that the balance sheet is not so clear. The report of the Committee on the Environment, Mazars et Savignant explains that one of the conditions for the proper functioning of the departmental criminal court is that the president is also president of the court of assizes. This criterion ensures the proper conduct of trials, their quality and the orality of the proceedings. But by generalizing departmental criminal courts, so by reducing the number of sitting court hearings, you're going to drain the pool. Mechanically, new generations of departmental criminal court presidents have never presided over a court of assizes. Your guarantees are therefore quite thin and fragile. In addition, five professional magistrates are required to sit. We can see from the following articles, which refer to the presence of honorary and temporary magistrates, that you will find it difficult to form these colleges. For all these reasons, it seems to me more reasonable to remain with the seat court system and to assign it additional resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u410	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u411	It is not a question of whether departmental criminal courts are relevant. The reasoning that prevailed during the examination of the 2019 bill on programming and reform for justice is still valid: Parliament, in its immense wisdom, then decided to conduct an experiment for three years, and considered to generalize the scheme in 2022 if it proved to be positive. In the middle of the ford, probably by means of a legislative vehicle, it is decided to consider that the return of experience is sufficient and to generalize the departmental criminal courts. In the opinion of the Conseil État, "If the authors of these reports converge to find that the professionals and the actors of the criminal trial consider that the first results of the experiment are positive, they feel that they lack a step backwards in order to assess in a convincing way the effects of the experiment. Why should we generalize a system today, when it was decided 18 months ago that he had to travel quietly before being perpetuated and generalized, since, in a certain way, he is operating a revolution? We believe that the experiment must first be completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u412	Mr Antoine Savignat, who has been quoted at length, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u413	[[Smile]] That's why I want to talk to you about Stéphane Mazars. More seriously, about everything has been said on the subject. Unlike the rapporteur, I was fundamentally opposed to this scheme, because I thought it would lead to the death of the court of assizes. As I said in length, wide and through the debates, I was also against its experimental nature, because justice must be done in the same way throughout the territory. I can therefore only welcome the fact that this jurisdiction is no longer experimental, but widespread, especially since all the returns we have are very favourable. For both professionals and litigants, this is a good system. If we do not legislate today, we will end up in the water in May 2022, as the rapporteur pointed out. Indeed, we will no longer be able to hear in criminal courts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Contrary to what Mr Bernalicis said, we will have no fewer seats, but more criminals. In my view, simply escaping the misappropriation of the system of the correction of rape, by providing victims with a response in the form of a good qualification, is a fundamental element in favour of the adoption of the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u414	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 4, 22, 37, 46, 123, 228, 335, 358, 401, 500, 617, 670, 687 and 813.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u415	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 7 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u416	Identical Amendments Nos 334 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 576 by Mr Aurélien Taché, 619 by Mr Pierre Vatin and 802 by Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u417	The rapporteur's amendment No 462 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u418	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 207, 530 and 817. I call Mr Terlier to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u419	It is the result of a Tarnian reflection: my colleague Muriel Roques-Etienne has tabled an identical amendment. Some departments have several courts. When experimenting with departmental criminal courts, we had wondered whether it would be possible for their hearings to take place not in the court where the court of assizes sits, but in other judicial courts, in order to contribute to a local justice system. Experiments have shown that this mechanism will help to make it possible to judge people as closely as possible to their jurisdiction, to which it should be added that the adoption of the text will lead to progress in the field of education. Allowing departmental criminal courts to sit in a court other than the Assize Court will promote a better distribution of community justice, especially in departments such as the Tarn – where criminal activity in the north and the south are substantially equivalent. This will also allow the assize court to sit at the same time as the departmental criminal court, in order to render a justice of proximity, more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u420	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 530.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u421	Once again, the Group of the European People's Party supports the proposal that our colleagues made during the examination in committee. This is a common sense measure, which provides flexibility to the judicial organization by allowing departmental criminal courts to sit in courts other than assize courts. In our view, this will promote the proper organization of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u422	Amendment No 817 by Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u423	Favourable opinion. Two Tarnish Members of the LaREM Group, Mr Terlier and Mrs Roques-Etienne, are indeed on the initiative of this measure, since they have drafted these identical amendments. This measure is in line with the will shown by the keeper of the seals since his appointment, that is, to make justice closer in our territories. The example of the Tarn is exhilarating. There are two courts in Albi and Castres. The Assize Court sits in Albi; We can very well imagine that the same goes for the departmental criminal court, but we can also envisage that it also sits in Castres. One may even think that it is more logical to try cases in Castres that have seriously disturbed public order. With the return of the possibility of investigating certain criminal cases in territories without investigation hubs, the Government's willingness to provide public services as close as possible to our fellow citizens marks points.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u424	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u425	Long live the Tarn department! These amendments are the result of the very fine collective work undertaken by Mr Jean Terlier, Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne and, of course, Mr Dimitri Houbron – let us not forget the North! This proposal is, of course, in the right direction. I can only give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u426	On Article 7, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 411 by Mrs Sylvia Pinel and 745 by Mrs Nathalie Porte, which may be subject to a joint debate, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u427	Amendment No 463 by the rapporteur is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u428	Amendment No 747 corrected by Mrs Nathalie Porte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u429	I put to the vote Rule 7, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u430	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 34 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u431	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-20-O1279.u432	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the Bill and the Organic Bill for Trust in the Judicial Institution. The meeting is adjourned.
