ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u2	Mr Christophe Lejeune, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 1402, on aid to forestry communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u3	I am fortunate to be the Member of Parliament for a constituency – the second in the Haute-Saône – with wooded areas that occupy more than 50% of the territory and that lives with and for the forest, a major issue of the 21st century, I must remind you. I salute the spontaneous generosity of a large number of communes and forest owners who have strongly mobilized themselves to offer the splendid oaks necessary for the reconstruction of the structure of Notre-Dame. Faymont was the first of them. Yet this generosity must not hide their financial difficulties. It is the whole forest industry that suffers from the bombyx caterpillars and other scolytes. Some medium-lying communes whose forests consist mainly of softwood are even more affected. Forest products sometimes accounted for up to 70 per cent or 80 per cent of their revenues. Private owners, forest operators, are equally affected. Under these conditions, necessary investments will no longer be possible and recurrent maintenance will be reduced. However, the many sawmills in my constituency, which are often at the forefront of their field, which also invest, need a high-quality raw material, in large quantities and at the right price. However, the forestry component of the France Relance plan is very well perceived, in particular the EUR 200 million dedicated to reforestation. Some municipalities have already completed the first steps in the NFB-supported call for projects – National Forestry Board. Mr Minister for Agriculture, I know that you, as well as the Government, are fully mobilized to support this line of excellence, which provides many jobs in rural areas and is a source of decarbonisation. Can you inform the national representative of the state of progress of the measures planned within the framework of France Relance for the forestry component and confirm the commitment and full mobilization of the State in favour of the sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u5	You have reminded him very well in your question, Mr Lejeune, the forest issue is immense. It is due to both health crises – the scolyte crisis in particular – and environmental crises – climate change –, both of which are linked: the emergence of scolytes, for example, is mainly due to the effects of climate change. We must therefore act in two directions: firstly, to respond to the health crises, in particular that of the scolytes, which, in fact, also has consequences for the resources of the forest communes. To this end, we have put in place mechanisms that will be extended and amplified following an assessment mission on the financial impact of the situation for the forest communes, carried out jointly with the Minister of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, Jacqueline Gourault. Then we planned a huge reforestation plan, financed under the France Recovery plan: 50 million trees, 150 million euros. This is probably the largest reforestation project since the post-war period. It concerns forest communes, state forests but also private forest. It is now spreading at a very good pace. The applications we have received are even higher than the funding available. We are working in partnership with the sectors and we are moving forward quickly. I do not forget the upstream of the industry – I am thinking of the nurseries who have an eminently important role to play – or the downstream – I am thinking of the use of new technologies in forest management, particularly the Lidar system of airborne laser remote sensing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u6	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor to put his question, No 1417, on the freezing and aid to farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u7	Last month, the freeze hit several regions. Its consequences are dramatic for viticulture, arboriculture and other crops. In the Rhône, especially in the Beaujolais region that I represent, these consequences are certainly heterogeneous, but many farmers have seen their hopes of harvesting fly away. The wine sector, which had a good momentum despite the health crisis but with often low stocks, is very concerned. Farms are going to suffer. Minister, what concrete answers do you intend to give to the demands of the professional wine organizations of Beaujolais in order to avoid a black year? In order to do so, they are calling for a white year, i.e. a reduction in the pressure on the cash flow through the exemption of social contributions for operators and employers in the sector. How do you respond to requests for partial unemployment – if the work continues in the vineyards, the harvest will not reach the expected level – for relief of levies, carry-over or extension of loans, take-over of the year's interest, or subscription of State-guaranteed loans beyond June 2021? How do you intend to support wine growers, especially young people who have recently settled, who are forgotten about aid because they do not receive aid from the Solidarity Fund? When are you planning to finally reform the system of agricultural disasters and introduce a new governance of crop insurance, which is not attractive since only 50% of farmers subscribe to it, and only farms that have lost 30% of their annual production can benefit from it. Further measures are needed. What about the exceptional fund you announced? It is necessary to save farms, to alleviate everything that can be done to help them cope with the situation. The dramatic climate event is an opportunity to recall in this House the importance for farmers and wine growers of having tools to prevent and manage risks in line with the climate challenge. The risk of losing a harvest in a night or a day is not sustainable if we want to make our farms and French viticulture sustainable. Be aware, Minister, that you are welcome to Beaujolais whenever you wish. Besides, in November, you were kind enough to take part in a video conference at a new Beaujolais tasting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u9	Thank you for your invitation, Mr. Member. You have summed it up very well, the freezing episode that our country has experienced has been dramatic for many crops – hundreds of thousands of hectares have been affected – especially for viticulture, especially in the beautiful territory that you represent and support with such determination. You have asked many specific questions which I will try to answer with the same precision. The Prime Minister and I have decided to announce and quickly introduce a EUR 1 billion support package. The first part consists of emergency measures: you mentioned the emergency fund that helps those who are in a cash flow impasse. I signed the circular yesterday and the funds are being delegated to the prefects, only 15 days after the announcement – so you see how quickly we act. In the case of charges, the year will be white beyond a threshold which is currently being defined with the professions concerned. Below the threshold, carry-over is planned. I repeat, it will be a white year in terms of burdens for heavily affected companies. As for part-time work, it is possible to use the system valid for covid-19 – State compensation can be as high as 86%. We are extending the system of compensation for production losses to arboriculture, viticulture and large crops: since the loss is more than 30%, the compensation may cover 40% of the loss. The first compensation must be paid by the end of June – our intention is to do in three months what normally takes nine months. As far as prevention is concerned, we are doubling the investment fund in precision equipment to combat the hazards of climate change – from EUR 100 million to EUR 200 million. In addition, some of the eligibility criteria are reviewed in order to facilitate access, particularly in the area of arboriculture. With regard to agricultural disasters, I launched the review of CNGRA – the National Committee for the Management of Risks in Agriculture – even before the freezing episode. As for the recasting of crop insurance, this is a huge project, which has been going on for months and which I want to complete. This is a very complicated subject, which I know very well in my personal capacity. I assure you that I will not give up anything in this area because we cannot accept a young generation entering these trades with a sword of Damocles above the head.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u10	The floor is open to Mr Philippe Latomb, to put his question, No. 1394, concerning Apple's monopolistic behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u11	I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Secretary of State for the Digital Transition, to the operation of Apple, as a single distributor of applications on its terminals and the iOS mobile market. In October 2020, after 16 months of investigations and a report of more than 400 pages, the US House of Representatives' antitrust subcommittee specifically described Apple's monopoly on the iOS applications market. According to US parliamentarians, the company prevents the emergence of any competition thanks to the dual control of its iOS operating system and its App Store. The manufacturer's rules on integrated purchases, in particular the famous 30% commission levied on the price of applications but also on subscription services, constituted a distortion of competition from the outset. Apple also requires everyone to use its payment system – In App payment – and has made "sherlocking", a practice that involves copying innovative applications for its own benefit by integrating them into a new free service of the iOS, a tool assumed from its economic development to the detriment of competition. In France as well as abroad, Apple raises many controversies, starting of course with tax evasion, as the heavy convictions in this area do not seem to have led the company to decline. For example, it decided to pass on the digital services tax, known as the GAFA tax, to its providers by prohibiting them from doing so to consumers. Three legal proceedings are under way: in France, before the Autorité de la concurrence, for abuse of a dominant position; to the European Commission for anti-competitive behaviour; to the CNIL – National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – for non-compliance with the GDPR – general regulation on data protection. What measures does the Government intend to take to regulate Apple's monopolistic behaviour both in France and in Europe, particularly during the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u12	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u13	You're talking about an absolutely strategic subject for years to come. You cite the example of Apple and ask several questions that are sometimes a little different, but all of which refer to the more global issue of the very large American companies – some European or Eastern companies could in future be part of this category – today in a situation of oligopoly in the digital markets. With regard to the cases you are referring to at the French level, I would point out that last year, a decision of the Autorité de la concurrence imposed a fine of EUR 1.1 billion on Apple because of its agreement with its distributors, which shows that, when it comes to these matters, this body can impose fines of a very high level. You also mentioned the links between privacy and possible abuse of dominant position on the part of Apple. These are extremely complex issues, because our privacy laws may, in some senses of their application, tend to strengthen existing actors – in this case, Apple. The Autorité de la concurrence has decided not to block the application of the new provisions adopted by Apple in terms of disclosure of identifiers for advertising purposes, but I would like to point out that, read in its entirety, the text of the judgment shows that the Autorité de la concurrence, if it does not rule on the merits, is nevertheless continuing the investigation at this level. With regard to the payments and fees levied by Apple, I would point out that the European Commission has made an announcement, still provisional, concerning the possible abuse of a dominant position in the case against Spotify. Two other elements: first of all, with regard to the so-called GAFA tax, the situation is quite simple: Apple and Google have passed it on to prices, as Amazon, it seems to me, and it is obvious that these companies are making fun of the world! These taxes are obviously not intended to be passed on to customers, since they are intended to correct a certain disloyalty of the tax practices of the companies concerned. The situation may, however, be quite interesting because, if the increase in the rates offered to their customers does not lead to a decrease in their customer base, this means, in economic theory, that these companies are in a situation of oligopoly or monopoly, which will enable the European decision-maker to be informed. It is indeed at European level that we must act, in particular through digital market legislation, known as DMA, the main objective of the French Presidency of the European Union: to reduce the footprint of these companies on our economy and our democracy by means of ex ante arrangements – as they say in good French – to supervise companies in a situation of oligopoly and monopoly, rather than to repair the problems they pose ex post.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u14	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u15	France will have to ensure that the drafting of DMA legislation is not the subject of too aggressive lobbying by Apple to distort it. The players in the ecosystem are very concerned about this and I would point out that the Irish regulator seems, in the opinion of many experts, to be very weak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u16	The floor is for Ms Jennifer De Temmerman to put her question, No 1418, on the inclusion of fossil gas in the European register of sustainable investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u17	My question is for the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery and concerns France's policy on the inclusion of fossil gas in the European register of sustainable investments. A letter co-signed by the President of the Republic and six other Heads of State and Government was sent to the European Commission to support the inclusion of nuclear energy in the European register of sustainable investments, or "taxonomy". At the same time, these allied countries are pushing heavily to include fossil gas in the same register – it seems to be a success, since the Commission has just made a proposal to this effect, which could encourage the massive development of gas-fired power plants in Europe. However, as the President of the European Investment Bank pointed out, this energy is harmful to the climate and Europe will soon have to do without it. It is also less and less competitive in the face of sustainable alternatives and maintains Europe's energy dependence. Yet, while all over Europe, countries like Spain, Denmark and Ireland are protesting against this classification of fossil gas as a green investment, France remains silent. In order to clarify this situation, I would like to know the position of the Government on this crucial issue, particularly for European ambitions and the development of green finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u18	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u19	The development of sustainable finance is a crucial tool to ensure the transition from the economy to carbon neutrality by aligning capital flows on a path compatible with the temperature targets defined by the Paris Agreement. The European taxonomy, which you refer to, is indeed the backbone of the European Union's action on greening the financial system. Its use is mandatory for financial market players and companies. It is both an inventory of existing technologies or to be developed to ensure the objective of carbon neutrality and a transition tool to the market. On 21 April 2021 the European Commission published the first delegated act of the Taxonomy Regulation. This text contains, as you mentioned, eligibility criteria for climate mitigation and adaptation objectives, covering sectors currently responsible for almost 80% of greenhouse gas emissions. However, the establishment of criteria for certain activities requires further work. This is the case with nuclear energy, agriculture, certain industrial equipment and natural gas, which are therefore not included in this first text. The Commission has undertaken that a supplementary delegated act will cover these activities as soon as the necessary expertise is available on these issues. France is very committed to the principle that underpins the credibility of taxonomy: technological neutrality, i.e. the absence of a priori exclusion of certain technologies on a non-scientific basis, in order to ensure the adaptability of the tool to potential future technological failures, and the scientific character of the criteria chosen. For example, France defends, as you stress, the inclusion of nuclear energy, a low-carbon energy source that has been the subject of a recent report by scientists at the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission, concluding that there are no significant effects on human health and the environment. Similarly, in the taxonomy regulation, natural gas cannot be excluded a priori but must be subject to scientifically established criteria consistent with European objectives and the 1.5 degree climate trajectory. There are indeed technological avenues for reducing CO emissions from natural gas plants by carbon capture or low-carbon fuel use, such as biogas, which should not be penalised a priori. France has defended and will continue to defend an ambitious threshold for natural gas in the taxonomy, compatible with its climate commitments and equal treatment between sources of energy production. We look forward to the Commission's proposal for this new delegated act, which we hope will be as ambitious as possible. I would also point out that two other delegated acts devoted to the criteria are the environmental objectives, such as the protection of biodiversity, as well as the obligations to use and publish the alignment of companies – banks, insurers and portfolio managers – on taxonomy, are also necessary by the end of 2021 for the implementation of the text and its success as a tool for steering the transition. We will be attentive to their environmental ambitions and their ability to maintain European legislation at the best global standard in sustainable finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u20	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u21	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, although, on such an important subject and even though it is still early this Tuesday morning, I would have preferred – do not take it wrong! – to hear it from the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. I therefore understand that France will not openly take a stand against fossil gas, thus opposing all the speeches made at European level in favour of the ecological transition and as we are going to vote this afternoon on the climate law, in particular Article 4a bis on greenwashing. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u22	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 1423, on the shortage and price of building materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u23	The construction sector is sounding alarms, as the stock of materials is shrinking and the price of raw materials is rising, causing this sector to fear direct consequences, particularly in terms of employment and prices. This is particularly the case in my department of Ardèche, where this sector is struggling to source raw materials such as steel, copper, construction wood or polyurethane. This direct consequence of the epidemic and the industry-induced disruption creates situations of shortage, with a surge in prices which, I repeat, could have a serious impact on employment. The construction sector also fears, and rightly so, a kind of double penalty: on the one hand, rising material prices would reduce margins and lead to construction sites at a loss and, on the other hand, delays due to shortages and, as a result, the risk of late penalties. After a difficult year – the least we can say – due to the health crisis, some companies are now almost at a standstill, while, paradoxically, their order books are rather correct. In these circumstances, the use of partial unemployment by the 3900 arduous enterprises of the BTP would be dramatic and public stimulus plans would be in vain. I know that the Government is particularly concerned about this issue and I would therefore like, Mr. Secretary of State, to be able to elaborate on the concrete measures that you are planning to implement so as not to compromise the recovery, and to indicate how the Government intends to respond to the demands of the construction sector, namely, the organization of a dialogue between suppliers of raw materials and professionals in the construction industry, the freezing of late penalties and the updating of prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u24	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u25	Mr President, you are drawing the attention of Mr Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, to the shortage and rising prices of building materials. Let me bear witness personally: in Marseille, where I was yesterday, business leaders from various sectors, including the company Richel, which manufactures greenhouses in the north of Bouches-du-Rhône, told me about the difficulties associated with rising prices, in particular steel, and the difficulties they face as a result of delays, price increases and reductions in payment deadlines imposed on them by suppliers, as a result of a global situation which can have catastrophic consequences for our national companies. The recovery of industrial activity, particularly in Asia, in a context of uncertainty for many producers of raw materials and of slower re-starting of production capacity, leads to significant supply pressures, mainly for metals and plastic resins. This is coupled with a significant increase in energy prices, with the price of the barrel of crude oil doubling between November and March to reach $70 at the beginning of March, and emission quotas reaching €44 per tonne of CO, with a significant impact on the energy-using sectors, but also on those whose raw materials are petroleum derivatives, including plastics and many chemical bases. These tensions confirm the relevance of the Government's action for several years and accelerated under the France Recovery plan for the resilience of our supplies and value chains, and to support projects that contribute to our strategic autonomy in key sectors. We will continue and amplify these efforts in the coming weeks and months, as regards semiconductors, but also in the field of metallurgy, or to accelerate the development of a circular economy and better control our supplies. In the case of plastics, our efforts, already committed in 2020 by dedicated support, then by the bonus-malus decree that promotes the incorporation of recycled plastic into packaging, and deepened in 2021 with the ADEME Circular Economy Fund – the Ecological Transition Agency – and the ORPLAST 3 scheme, to the tune of 140 million euros, to support the investments of plastic designers in the incorporation of recycled plastics, will ultimately make the sector less sensitive to price fluctuations of virgin plastics. Bruno Le Maire also asked his services to ensure precise follow-up of the situations you are referring to, with a particular vigilance for the respect of a balance of relations between customers and suppliers, in order to avoid the abusive use of force majeure clauses. If unfair terms or unreasonable business practices are involved, be sure that we will do our utmost to ensure a demanding application of contract law. Commercial courts have a specific role to play in ensuring this balance. In order to take stock of the situation and the best approaches to support companies facing these supply tensions, Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire brought together the most affected sectors on 14 April. We will continue this follow-up and ensure that the most difficult situations are treated on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u26	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u27	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that answer. We share the observation, which is already a good thing. I stress that we must regain a form of autonomy, if not sovereignty, with regard to certain materials. I have taken note of the Minister of Economy's commitment to follow up on these issues and the relationship between suppliers and companies in the OTP. As for me, I will ensure a precise follow-up of his precise follow-up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u28	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor to raise her question, No. 1403, on the western bypass of the metropolis of Nîmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u29	The minister delegated to the minister for the ecological transition, more than a road development, the western bypass of Nîmes is a project whose general interest is no longer to be proved. It brings together the metropolitan Nîmes-Alès pole, the state, the Gard department and the Occitanie region. This new road route of twice two lanes over 12 kilometers is intended to allow exchanges with the departmental track and a connection on the A9 motorway, south-west of Nîmes. An additional route linking the two sections of the unlicensed national road network, National Roads 106 and 113, is also indispensable and for study since 2018. I will only mention the arguments which have been in favour of this project since the beginning, and more importantly today: the opening up of the industrial areas and basins of Nîmes and Alès and that of the Cevenol living areas, the accessibility of the university hospital in Nîmes, the decongestion of its urban area and the regional and European intermodality. At the inter-ministerial committee in the Decentralized City in the Gard, held at the end of March, all the local executives called on the Prime Minister to do so. Indeed, while it is gratifying that the recovery plan is reflected in a substantial financial effort in favour of rail transport, roads must not be forgotten. However, the financing of the bypass work has not yet been completed and prior studies and procedures are still under way. Without sufficient progress, the project cannot fall within the envelope of the recovery plan – a peak for such an old project. Deputy Minister, when and how will this circumvention become a reality? This is the issue that the citizens and elected representatives of our territory are asking themselves with insistence, not without concern. Funding for the project is urgently needed to ensure its feasibility. This requires the assurance of sufficient financial portage through the State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – for 2021-2027, and implies that all funding possibilities are considered. As such, what happens to the endorsement scenario of the part of the project connected to the A9 motorway to the Auroutes du Sud de la France network – ASF – as part of the motorway investment project? The western bypass of Nîmes is vital for the Gard, one of the poorest and most unequal departments in France, but also among the most attractive demographics. It is inconceivable that this project suffers from any competition between territories. To be born, it needs a sufficient financial guarantee from the State. What about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u30	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u31	Mrs Dumas, you are calling the attention of the Deputy Minister responsible for Transport to the proposed western bypass of Nîmes and its prospects for completion. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The project of the western bypass of Nîmes, known as CONIM, will make it possible to remove certain traffic of exchange and transit from the current RN106, giving it a more urban character and better adapted to the territories it crosses. This project is included in the current CPER up to EUR 8.3 million; This registration was extended until 2022, so that the studies would be carried out and the first land acquisitions would be carried out. The State is actively working on the finalization of the first studies, with a view to submitting the public inquiry project prior to its declaration of public utility in the summer of 2022. I confirm to you that the request of the local authorities for a complementary link with the RN113 has been taken into account, which requires an extension of the studies. If the feasibility of this bar was confirmed, its cost should be borne in full by the communities, consistent with the fact that it would only address local service issues. The feasibility of endorsing part of CONIM to the ASF concession is currently being studied by the State services. This endorsement could be limited to part of the work, given the very strict European and national rules on the subject. Consequently, the issue of financing bypass work will be included in the negotiations on the next State-region infrastructure contract, which will enter into force from 2023. Be assured, Madam, of the full commitment of the state to this matter. The voluntarism of local authorities will also be decisive in contributing to the continuation of the project in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u32	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u33	Thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, and assure you that there is a republican front that is totally united and determined to move this issue forward. It is an element that must be taken into account: the project is coherent for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u34	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor to put her question, No. 1404, on the Cherbourg-Paris line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u35	This morning, I'm going to talk to you about the Norman train, the Channel train, and the Paris-Caen-Cherbourg line. Impossible to relieve myself in decent conditions on board the train, repeated delays, non-compliant trains and train deletions: this is what I have been experiencing for ten years in the Cotentin. The territorial divide has been widening for thirty years. The Conseil économique, social et environnement régional – CESER – de Normandie has carried out an interesting study: on a map of France showing the travel time earned between the province and Paris – from Bordeaux, Marseille, Nice or Lyon for example – the Norman region is an exception – a black hole, so to speak. Over the past 30 years, travel time to Paris has increased instead of decreasing, from two hours and fifty with the coal train in the 1970s to an average of three hours and forty today. In addition to the territorial divide, there is an ecological divide. As ecology is a subject that is a source of enthusiasm and a motivation for voting, I propose that we talk about it: environmental concerns involve promoting public transport, especially the train. In Normandy, 80% of commuting takes place by car, and only 6% by public transport. So the account isn't there. I would like to refer to an important project that has been dragging on for years, the "cut-off" project. About two hundred Norman trains arrive every day at Paris Saint-Lazare train station, for thousands of Francilian trains. The former arrive by left-hand lanes and must park on the right-hand side of the station, while the latter arrive from right-hand lanes and must park on the left. Of course, it is the Norman trains that have to wait at the intersection – which I understand very well, given the number of Francilian trains. But the project is now blocked, while the inhabitants of the Channel and the Normandy region are waiting for it; They have nothing to do with the electoral calendar and would like it to accelerate. Everything I have just outlined is not worthy of the twenty-first century. I hope that the EUR 40 billion of the France Recovery plan funded by Europe – out of EUR 100 billion – will create a high-speed Paris-Caen-Cherbourg line. You will no doubt answer, Madam Deputy Minister, that the region has already done what is necessary for the trains, but these new trains are like Ferraris driving on outdated departmental roads! I pay tribute to the efforts of user associations, CESER, SNCF agents and local elected officials, who have been working on these issues for years. But today, I cannot tell the inhabitants of Cotentin that they will gain ten minutes by 2038; It's not conceivable! I'm one of the local elected officials who's dreaming of a high-speed line for the Cotentin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u36	The next speaker is the Deputy Minister for Housing, who will have little time to answer you, Madam Member, after this long question of more than four minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u37	As you pointed out, Madam Member, the quality of service on the Paris-Cherbourg line has not been satisfactory in recent years. Until 2019, the advanced age of rolling stock was the leading cause of malfunctions. This is why the State has committed to finance new trainsets for a total amount of EUR 720 million. Delivery, which started in January 2020, is due to end next summer. It is important to point out that since 1 January 2020, the Normandy region has taken over the competence of the organizing authority of the line whose service is therefore no longer dependent on the State. For infrastructure, the road map for improvement is well-filled for the next few years. In the short term, the relocation of the GSM-R – the global telecommunications system for rail – supported by the State to the tune of EUR 15 million is expected to improve operating conditions by 2023-2024. In the medium and long term, the deaturation operations at the Paris Saint-Lazare station must help solve the dysfunctions you mentioned, Madam Member. These operations are part of the new Paris-Normandie line project, integrated into the investment priorities of the mobility guidance law – LOM. The Saint-Lazare station's grade separation project is currently under analysis. The conclusions of the discussions are expected next fall, before the start of the preliminary project studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u38	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to put his question, No. 1413, on night trains.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u39	I would like to ask the minister responsible for transport about plans to deploy a new generation of night trains and the prospect for the Cantal to benefit again from a night train between Aurillac and Paris. The Mobility Orientation Act provides for the submission to Parliament of a report on the development of an offer of land balance trains and night trains, in view of "their interest in meeting the needs of the départements far from the main traffic routes". Who knows Cantal easily acknowledges that this department meets this definition. Since then, the Government has referred to the creation of two new lines and, above all, the deployment of some 10 lines by 2030. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the unique situation of the Cantal department, whose Aurillac prefecture suffers from an unrivalled situation of enclavement. It is in fact more than 12 hours from Paris for a round trip, and more than 14 hours by train. Its closure was aggravated by the abolition of direct trains and by the abolition of the night train. Madam Deputy Minister, today it takes more time to reach Paris on the train than it took forty years ago. Given the unique and unenviable situation of the rail service of Aurillac and Cantal, I would like to obtain assurances that the department and its prefecture will be taken into account in the project to deploy a night train offer which, you will understand, represents a real opportunity for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u40	All right! The Ardèche supports the Cantal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u41	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u42	Since the beginning of the quinquennium, particularly in the context of the recovery plan, the Government has affirmed its priority for rail and night trains. While previous governments had gradually resolved to close all night train lines in France, we are making the opposite choice. As you said, three areas of work have been identified by the Minister responsible for transport. The first aims to ensure the sustainability of the two lines still open, Paris-Briançon and Paris-Rodez-Latour de Carol-Portbou. To this end, we are investing EUR 44 million for the renovation of the seventy-one cars on both lines and for major road rehabilitation work. The second priority is the rapid opening of two new lines, to which 100 million euros of the recovery plan will be dedicated: Paris-Nice in the spring of 2021 and Paris-Tarbes in 2022, with an extension to Lourdes, Dax and Hendaye in the high season. The modalities of the recovery are being refined by SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u43	What about the Cantal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u44	But your question, Mr. Descoeur, concerns the Cantal, Aurillac, and the design of the mesh of tomorrow; I'm coming! Jean-Baptiste Djebari indicated that nearly ten lines of night trains could be built by 2030. As for the report you are referring to, it will be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks, in accordance with the commitments made in the LOM. As part of this project, we have taken note of the strong demand from the elected members of the Cantal for a night train serving Aurillac and I understand, Mr.Member, that you are particularly mobilized on this subject – rightly. The report seeks first to define corridors; It will then be necessary to continue exchanges with operators in order to refine the most relevant routes and to purchase the necessary rolling stock. I can already tell you that the service to Aurillac is one of the hypotheses examined in the study, starting from the corridor between Paris and Toulouse. We will have the opportunity to continue these exchanges in future debates in Parliament. The Government will always respond to the key challenges of opening up our territories and decarbonizing our modes of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u45	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u46	Madam Minister Delegate, first of all I would like to thank you for confirming that Aurillac is one of the destinations under consideration. Mr Djebbari himself is well aware of the situation in the departments of the Central Massif, which is superbly ignored by the TGV lines, which are working to circumvent it. The handicap we are suffering from is no longer bearable. It is essential that the commissioning of a new generation night train should be tested fairly quickly. It would be an asset for a department that has paid a heavy price to the strategy of the SNCF at all TGV. He must be present at the upcoming meeting, I think the state and the SNCF owe it to him. It is all the more important, Madam Minister Delegate, that the health crisis has confirmed the attractiveness of rural departments such as Cantal. This revival, which we have been working on for decades, can only be translated in concrete terms if the conditions of travel are significantly improved: the link between our department and the capital must be made within acceptable deadlines, for the inhabitants of Cantal as well as for those who wish to join it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u47	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor to put his question, No. 1412, on the railway service to Neufchâteau.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u48	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister responsible for transport to the railway service of Neufchâteau. The work at Lyon Part-Dieu station, which will last five years, has led to the abolition of some direct links to the South of France. This is particularly the case for TGV Metz-Nice and Nancy-Toulouse, who stopped in Neufchâteau: they have been suspended since December 5, 2018. My first question concerns the follow-up of work at Lyon Part-Dieu station, a reason invoked to remove these direct links north-south: where are we, Madam Deputy Minister? Can you assure us that direct links to the South will be restored at the end of the work via the Nancy-Neufchâteau-Dijon line? My second question concerns Intercity trains and the return of night trains. It is vital that the Neufchâteau station can be served by an Intercity train if a Metz-Grenoble link is set up or is re-established by a night train if a connection between Metz and the South of France is under consideration. What about the deputy minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u49	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u50	The work at the Lyon Part-Dieu station, scheduled for 2018-2023, has several objectives: to improve regularity, to improve safety for users, to facilitate and to fluidise journeys at the station and on the docks, thus allowing a more optimal operation of the station. The construction of L track and new accesses from Georges Pompidou Avenue force train traffic. An essential phase of the project will be completed by the end of this year. With regard to transport offers, the TGV service between Nancy and Lyon, whose traffic was mainly regional or interregional, has been replaced since 2019 by a TER offer that serves Neufchâteau. It also allows a connection to Dijon with the TGVs to Lyon and South-East France. So there are possibilities for combination TER and TGV. However, it is still too early for SNCF to project its TGV service plans in 2023. Finally, you are asking the Government about the development of new lines of balanced trains in the territory that would make it possible to link Neufchâteau to the South of France. The Mobility Guidance Act provides that the State shall consider the desirability of developing new day and night lines. The report, which is being finalised, will be forwarded to Parliament in the coming weeks for debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u51	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u52	Our rural territory must benefit from more developed rail services in order to unblock. The reception of new inhabitants and the attractiveness of our territories depend on their accessibility. It's beautiful in your house, we're told, but how do we get here? Indeed, without access, no attraction; without access, no services; without access, no inhabitants; without access, no rurality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u53	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor to put his question, No. 1411, on the mother way of Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u54	I am the spokesperson for the residents of the railway motorway serving the port of Calais known as the "mother track of Calais". This rail service causes serious nuisances for all the inhabitants of the 450 housing units located on its perimeter and periphery. Originally, the project to modernise the motherway between the port of Calais and the station of Calais-Ville was intended, according to SNCF, to develop the existing railway between the port of Calais and the station of the city centre in order to respond to the forecast of an increase in the traffic of goods of the port, due to its extension. The aim of the railway project, which was to promote the modal shift by accompanying the economic development of the port, was to favour road hauliers without taking into account the preservation of the living conditions of the residents, a concern completely absent from the project. Ferruting, of course, creates jobs, but its growth must not be at the expense of the health of the residents of the motherway, who suffer from severe noise nuisances. However, new authorizations for the commissioning of a railway motorway continue to be issued – Calais - Le Boulou, Calais-Turin, Calais-Mâcon – which only degrades the daily lives of the residents. It is essential that noise reduction work be undertaken as quickly as possible. The situation has not advanced since 2011 and no action by the Presidency of SNCF or the State has been implemented. Waterfronts are still awaiting work and new solutions such as the construction of an easterly bypass railway. This last project started in 2011 as part of the Calais Port 2015 project was considered too expensive and unfortunately was abandoned while it could have saved the inhabitants serious nuisances. It is essential that the studies of circumvention planned for the project are continued and that the project is completed as soon as possible. Not only is the health of the residents affected, but the value of their property is affected, given the drop in the price of real estate caused by the constant noise and the multiple cracks caused in their homes by the excessive vibrations associated with the passage of trains on the mother track. However, solutions were implemented in another area a few years ago during the renovation of the road between Calais and Dunkirk, through which very heavy rail freight comes from quarries in particular. Several facilities – anti-vibration carpets, noise-resistant walls, insulation of dwellings – have preserved the tranquillity of the residents of the communes of Gravelines or Marck. Why such a difference in treatment between the residents of the Calais-Dunkerque motherway and those of the Calais motherway? This situation is no longer tenable. I call on the Government to take urgent and strong measures to reduce the nuisances suffered by residents, whether sound, psychological or urban, and to undertake noise reduction work as soon as possible. It is also important to relaunch the reflection on the creation of a service to the port of Calais in the east, which would have the advantage of going through industrial areas and not through inhabited areas. Finally, I would like to know whether the Government is providing compensation for moral, psychological, material and financial harm to the residents of the motherland.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u55	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u56	Taking into account the current and future noise and vibration problems experienced by the residents of Calais is a major challenge of the Calais parent road project. These well-known elements were highlighted during the prior consultation phase in 2018. Measures to mitigate noise pollution were thus taken into account by the contractor and presented in a further consultation at the beginning of 2021. The public survey of the first phase of modernization related to the urban section, scheduled for next fall, will provide a new opportunity for the public to express their views on this subject. Without waiting for the first phase to be put into service by 2025, improvements will be made this year to remove the horns at the crossing of trains and to reduce noise pollution around two level crossings. This work will be carried out thanks to joint funding from the State and the Hauts-de-France region for a commissioning in the first quarter of 2022. In areas where this solution would be retained during the public investigation, acoustic facade protections could be installed as early as 2022 in order to protect residents from noise. These first interventions are in the direction of a short-term improvement in the daily lives of the residents. Beyond this, the first phase of the operation provides for the integration of anti-vibration measures in the railway renewal zones and the creation of acoustic screens. Be assured that the State services will continue to be mobilised to implement these measures so that the modernisation of the Calais parent road will respond optimally to the challenges of developing the territory by rail freight while ensuring the conditions of integration into the urban environment and respect for the living conditions of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u57	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u58	Madam Deputy Minister, you have answered my questions on noise pollution, but you have not said anything about bypassing the east. Is this possibility still on the table or is it definitely to be forgotten?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u59	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to put her question, No. 1422, on the high-speed Bretagne-Pays de la Loire line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u60	I would like to draw the attention of the minister responsible for transport to the need to take swift measures to stop the serious disturbances caused by vibrations or noise caused by the residents of the high-speed Bretagne-Pays de la Loire line. Standing alongside IRC 72, a collective of citizens who have been victims of these nuisances in the Sarthe department since the commissioning of this line, I wish to echo their incomprehension, their fatigue and their anger. The report of the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development (CGEDD), submitted on 2 May 2019, although it acknowledged the existence of these nuisances, proved very disappointing as it did not provide solutions to all the residents concerned. Following its publication, Ms Borne, when she was in charge of transport, however, announced the release of EUR 11 million for the Bretagne-Pays de la Loire line, in order to carry out installations designed to protect the residents from peaks of noise along the LGV. She also expressed her willingness to refer to the National Noise Council, the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Planning (CEREMA) and the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health Safety (ANSES) to work on the definition of more relevant indicators and on a better understanding of the impact of peak noise on health. Since then, however, the affected citizens have felt – not just a feeling – that this issue is getting bogged down as their sufferings continue and their homes are greatly devalued. Together with the parliamentarians of the territories concerned, we have asked to be received by the services of the Minister of Transport in order to discuss the issues raised by this issue. The Minister's response, by letter dated April 2, did not grant this request. According to the conclusions of the GSDG, it rejected the proposal for a partial reduction in the maximum speed of TGVs on the basis of a broadly approximate assessment of the additional journey time that would be involved in this slowdown. Together with the other elected representatives and the citizens involved, we believe that this solution would provide an effective, cost-free response. It would justify, at least on a temporary basis, the time for a lasting solution to be found, by the need to guarantee rights and preserve the health of our citizens. No response was given to the construction of infrastructure near the line to provide voice protection for the inhabitants or to the creation of a compensation fund for the victims, financed from a levy on the tickets of the loudest trains. The Government clarified that, as a result of the changes brought about by the Mobility Guidance Act, changes in the regulation on the consideration of peaks of noise and vibrations in rail transport infrastructure could be made by decree by the end of 2022. These announcements are not satisfactory. That is why I am asking the Government again about the measures it intends to take in the short term, and I reiterate our request to meet with the Deputy Minister to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u61	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u62	Madam Member, first of all, I want to assure you that the Government is fully aware of the impacts of rail noise on residents and is actively responding to them. These issues are often raised for the LVV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire and South Europe-Atlantique that were put into service in July 2017. The Government is acting with determination. First of all, we are carrying out work to reduce these nuisances in the vicinity of the two LGVs. For the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire, €11 million will be provided, half of which has already been mobilised since the Memorandum of Understanding in 2019. Local contacts have been made with the most affected people and departmental committees, a new meeting of which is on the agenda this week, follow up on this work. Secondly, we are working on noise standards and qualification. These proven nuisances, despite overall compliance with the regulations, would be related not to a regular noise level but to high peaks of noise during train passage. On this second point, work is continuing, notably on the basis of a decree of November 1999 and the recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO). Thanks to the mobility guidance law, two advances can be made. This is first of all a better assessment of noise peaks. ANSES has been seized in order to objectify the health effects and the National Noise Council is expected to deliver an opinion on the work of CEREMA by the end of the first half of the year. Second step: better quantification and integration of vibrations in rail transport infrastructure. The National Noise Council must also consider CEREMA's proposals on this subject. Work on the other components – solid noise, tactile discomfort – will continue in 2021 and the results are expected in 2022. The Government thus acts with determination on several fronts in the face of the nuisances felt by the residents. Their health is paramount and we will be at their side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u63	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u64	I hear your commitments by 2022, but in the meantime, the speed limitation would help to reduce the extremely loud noise and nuisances that residents experience on a daily basis and from which they suffer. I invite you, Madam Minister Delegate, and Mr Djebari, to come and meet with the citizens of my constituency to see these nuisances. There's a real emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u65	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to speak on his question No. 1406 on sexual and gender-based violence in higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u66	On 8 March 2018, you announced, Madam Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, a major plan to combat sexual and gender-based violence in higher education, with the launch of a communication campaign, the establishment of a reception and listening unit at each university, and the training and awareness-raising of all agents of the regional centres for academic and academic works (CROUS) on equality between women and men by 2020. Despite the campaign "Stop gender-based and sexual violence in higher education", it must be noted that this issue remains on campus. Of course, reception and listening cells with referents have been installed in universities, but students are very critical of the effectiveness of these devices. The hashtag # SciencesPorcs, which appeared on social networks at the beginning of February, showed that there are still many actions, that they are anchored in time and that administrations are still not at the level to provide an appropriate response. Students are still having difficulty talking because they fear the impact on their career, even before it begins. According to the Observatory for the Study of Sexual and Gender-based Violence in Higher Education, one out of twenty students has been raped and one out of ten victims of sexual assault. The university is unfortunately an environment conducive to such violence, due in particular to alcohol and group effects during integration evenings. Victims are not always properly informed, accompanied or cared for. On the other hand, there would be considerable disparities between public and private institutions. Furthermore, according to the Observatory, the staff in charge of reception and listening units and the focal points are not sufficiently trained or equipped for the care of victims of violence. Finally, disciplinary procedures within higher education institutions are often confused and differentiated depending on whether they are in the public or private sector. That is why I would like to know the status of the provisions introduced in 2018 and the manner in which the communication campaign was disseminated. Do reception and listening cells exist on each campus? What about private institutions? How are referents selected and trained? Finally, what actions do you envisage following the revelations about the omerta surrounding sexual and gender-based violence within the directorates of higher education institutions, so that shame finally changes its course?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u67	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u68	The scourge of gender-based and sexual violence affects all sectors and socio-professional groups in all geographical areas, and higher education does not escape it. I would like first of all to express my support for all the victims and to say that such violence does not have a place in higher education; I will never have words strong enough to condemn them. As you recalled, many actions have been carried out. The Public Service Transformation Act of 2019 provides for the introduction of reporting devices and more than 95% of universities now have listening cells. A guide was released last year to assist institutions in investigating violence within them and a specialized training network was established to propose prevention strategies for integration weekends. These measures were implemented as early as the beginning of 2018, in parallel with massive communication and awareness-raising campaigns because, in many cases, acts are committed outside institutions, which explains the difficulties they face in setting up disciplinary procedures. We can also build on the richness of the research, through the surveys carried out, including the Virage – Violence and Gender Reports survey. Building on the latter, the National Observatory for Student Life has integrated a specific module on gender-based and sexual violence into its national survey on student living conditions. The revelations and testimonies of recent weeks illustrate the need to go even further. That is why I have entrusted to the General Inspectorate of Education, Sport and Research (IGESR) two inspection missions specifically dealing with the facts that you have recalled; it will give me its conclusions before the summer so that measures can be effective as of the beginning of September 2021. A collective awareness is needed; zero tolerance must be applied and all attacks must lead to sanctions. This is why the institutions are preparing a national plan of action against all these forms of discrimination, which will cover training, the professionalisation of reporting mechanisms, the communication on the existence of internal and voluntary arrangements for students and staff and, finally, the exploitation of all student initiatives in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u69	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u70	I thank you for your response and for your mobilization against this scourge that must disappear from our society. At present, a phenomenon of trivialisation still persists with regard to facts which have always existed in higher education and which we must eradicate definitively. I will be vigilant, along with those who follow this file, about the findings of the General Inspection investigation. I would also like to thank you and your team for having received us; I still have to meet, in the coming days, the Observatory to study sexual and gender-based violence in higher education in order to bring forward our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u71	The next speaker is Mrs Cécile Untermaier, to put her question, No. 1421, on the malfunctioning of the NANT.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u72	This is a completely different question I would have liked to ask you if I had known that you would be responsible for answering us today. My question has nothing to do with universities, but it concerns the malfunctioning of a system that affects the daily lives of citizens and leads them to solicit us on a very regular and excessive basis. I wanted to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the difficulties encountered by many people in the dematerialised procedures for issuing grey cards and driving licences by the National Secure Securities Agency (ANTS), which, alas, has made itself known negatively. The dematerialization of these procedures since November 2017 causes difficulties that are sometimes indescribable for some users who then push the doors of our permanences – and they are welcome – in the hope of finding a solution to make their approach succeed. This automation may prove practical but it is complex for people far from digital, especially when the user interface is dysfunctional; the professionals themselves, such as garage operators, are unable to finalize the procedures. These difficulties lead many French people to travel without a certificate of registration and cause anxiety and anxiety. This problem affects the daily lives of citizens, such as the exercise of a profession, that of garage operators, who find themselves in conflict with their clients. I would like to know whether the Government is aware of the difficulties encountered as a result of this dematerialized procedure and what remedial mechanism it provides for in case of malfunction. Our imagination and competence to deal with these kinds of issues have limits and we need the Government to seize the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u73	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u74	A modernisation of public action has indeed been undertaken to enable the French to have public services accessible via the Internet, with a view to simplifying the procedures. The "New Generation Prefectures" plan resulted in the total or partial dematerialization of the issuance of national identity cards, passports, vehicle registration certificates and driving permits. This plan provides for enhanced support for users to remote digital audiences, on the one hand, and all users of teleprocedures, on the other. It is true that significant delays have been noted in the launch of this initiative, but the situation is now stabilized and the average processing times are in the order of a few days for each of these steps and are generally satisfactory. There have been several significant improvements in the vehicle registration system. More than 40 million transactions are made each year on this application, without major incidents; the average time for issuing registration certificates is 17 days and the average time for driving licences is 16 days, which includes the period of investigation of the file by the administration, the time of production and delivery. In order to meet the expectations of users facing difficulties in teleprocedures, the National Secure Titles Agency has been entrusted with improving the remote support system, which is part of its citizen contact centre. Its staff increased from 30 teleadvisors in 2017 to more than 250 in 2020 and its agents received and processed in 2019 2729737 calls and 602723 e-mails from users relating to their actions, thus demonstrating the effectiveness of this administration's response. In order to monitor the quality of service provided, the NANT was also responsible for carrying out satisfaction surveys: over the period August to October 2020, the overall user satisfaction rate was 79% on average. The quality of the user relationship and the constant adaptation of teleprocedures features are among the top priorities in the field of title issuance, and the Government is very attentive to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u75	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u76	I thank you for these elements and would like to make a few comments in response. First, the modernization plan called "new generation" must not forget the old generations, far from digital in the rural world in particular. Be aware that this situation is far from being resolved. Secondly, when you mention a satisfaction of the order of 79%, it means that there are still 20% of people dissatisfied, which is not negligible; It is precisely for these that I allow myself to intervene. I do not mention this subject simply to ask a question: it is very difficult for us to find solutions to complex or non-complex dossiers for which, following an error of manipulation, we find ourselves in a Kafka labyrinth. I wanted to point out this and I hope that the State Secretariat for Rural Affairs will also take over this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u77	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to raise her question, No. 1408, concerning the equipment of patrol vehicles in E85 cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u78	The third law on amending finance made it possible to release an envelope of 75 million euros to commit the renewal of the fleet of police officers and gendarmes. In 2020, 1263 electric vehicles and 1335 Peugeot 5008 have already been delivered. This action enables our security forces to work in much better conditions. There was an urgent need, as I was able to see in a gendarmerie brigade in my constituency, in Montcornet: the oldness of their vehicles was really hard to see! Recently invited to hand over the keys to their new equipment, I noted that the choice had been for petrol cars. For having been draftsman of the appropriations of the "National Gendarmerie" mission for three years, I know the importance of the share dedicated to the purchase of fuel and I had proposed, as early as 2018, to equip the patrol vehicles in E85 enclosures. The E85 fuel has many advantages, both in terms of budget – it costs 65 cents of euros per litre compared to 1.46 euros for the E10, more than double – as well as in terms of the ecological transition – it emits 60% of greenhouse gases less than fossil fuel. I was then told that the proposal was under consideration – but three years later, still nothing! Let us remember that France is the first European producer of ethanol, with 12 million hectolitres per year. In 2020, 350 million litres of E85 were consumed in the country. This supply of fuel, which is becoming more and more widespread, offers an additional opportunity to the beet producers in our regions. The installation of an E85 box amounts to around 1000 euros: this cost would be amortized after only three months for police and gendarmerie vehicles, which operate 24 hours a day in rural areas. Isn't it time to equip them, or at least experiment with this possibility in the department of Aisne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u79	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u80	The renewal of the fleet of internal security forces is a priority for the Ministry of the Interior and is already underway in a quarter of the fleet. This massive renewal is carried out in full compliance with environmental standards: as you will certainly have noticed, the emphasis has been placed on the controls of electric vehicles, together with the related equipment. The volume effect of these orders, with more favourable energy characteristics, will significantly improve the environmental impact of an ageing and intensively used fleet. With regard to the equipment of vehicles in E85 housings – in the gendarmerie in particular – to run with bioethanol, this solution would certainly have advantages but also several disadvantages. First of all, given that the share of diesel in the gendarmerie fleet was over 80% in 2018, the E85 interest would be limited. Second, the reduced number of E85 distribution points may represent a strong constraint for the operational action of the units. It is true that 25 per cent of the service stations distribute them, but they are not evenly distributed throughout the territory and are often located in agglomeration. Finally, vehicles with bioethanol have a 20 per cent reduction in range compared to their gasoline-powered equivalents. The large number of gasoline vehicle acquisitions in recent months has mechanically reduced the number of diesel vehicles: this is an argument for relaunching the debate on the use of E85 casings. However, this advance does not solve the problem of the limited number of distribution points. Furthermore, there is no evidence at this stage that the technological modification of recent vehicles, not equipped with original E85 housings, would not render them ineligible for the manufacturer's warranty. In addition to the essential densification of the E85 distribution points, the still recent approval of this technology therefore requires a full knowledge of the effects of the use of this fuel. The Ministry of the Interior is following this matter with particular attention, which, in due course, will be an additional asset in the composition of its fleets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u81	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u82	Thank you for these encouraging answers. The number of service stations distributing E85 is on the rise: the future is therefore favourable for this fuel and for beetkeepers. In addition, the diesel fleet is in sharp decline; the time is therefore opportune to take an interest in the installation of the E85 housings. You, the minister, who defends research, will recognize that the future is about valuing our ethanol production potential – which would also allow us to acquire a certain degree of sovereignty. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u83	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde to put forward his question, No. 1424, on drug trafficking in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u84	The Ministry of the Interior lists 3952 places of sale of narcotics in France, but there are obviously many others; There would be 276 of them in my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, or about 7% of the total – but in reality, many inhabitants, frightened by traffickers, no longer dare to complain. On 25 January, as part of a large-scale police operation, more than 200 police officers intervened in Saint-Ouen to try to dry up trafficking. This is where the Directorate-General for Internal Security (DGSI) is likely to settle in a few months; So we want to protect the police will work there. Similarly, in 2008 and 2010, in Sevran, a commune that covered the chronicle, the Ministry of the Interior led very important interventions aimed at reducing or even drying up traffic. These two traffic nodes are served by the same line, that of the RER B, and are moving progressively. Hence my fear, which I wish to make heard at the Ministry of the Interior: between the stations of RER of Saint-Ouen and Sevran is that of the Bourget, close to the city of the North located in the commune of Drancy, of which I was the mayor; This station will become the second most frequented public transport service in Seine-Saint-Denis, and the third in Île-de-France. Drug trafficking has been there for decades. We do not have a chance to welcome officials from the DGSI, nor to pay for the chronicle on television! So nothing is being done effectively – in any case, no political will is going in this direction – to dry up drug trafficking here too. Worse, much of the traffic that left Sevran moved to the city of the North, at the foot of the RER station of the Bourget. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to appeal to the Government: the fight against drugs must be the same everywhere, rather than focusing on where senior officials of the Ministry of the Interior, such as in Saint-Ouen, or in the cities where television cameras are moving; This struggle must take place where people live and where, every day, they witness trafficking that they no longer support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u85	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u86	Security in the Seine-Saint-Denis is the subject of great attention on the part of the Government. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, an additional 311 police officers have been recruited to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens and to combat drug trafficking. This effort is in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic to recruit an additional 10,000 police officers and gendarmes, and the Minister of the Interior is currently working to deploy these personnel to the territory, to intervene on the public road and to contribute to the fight against drugs. In addition, Mr.Gérald Darmanin has launched a strong action to combat drug trafficking at both ends of the chain, from the consumer to the point of dealing. As far as consumers are concerned, 5,437 people had been verbalised in Seine-Saint-Denis on 29 April, since the generalization of the flat-rate fine in September 2020. With regard to the deal points, between 1 January and 16 April 2021, 148 police officers were engaged in 37 dismantling operations, leading to the control of 159 individuals and the arrest of 16 persons. In addition, a reporting portal, moncommissariat.fr, was created in March 2021 to enable citizens to report traffic. Finally, special attention has been paid to the northern city of Drancy: the activities of the police services have enabled six to nine individuals per month to be questioned for drug offences. This is not a significant change in indicators in this sector, but the Ministry of the Interior is vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u87	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u88	Thank you, Minister, for providing us, on behalf of the Government, with the response of the Ministry of the Interior. Since we will probably read our exchange in this ministry – and perhaps even in the Directorate General of Internal Security, which will settle in Saint-Ouen – I insist that there has been no new police activity in Drancy – you have indicated it yourself. Only the police station in Drancy, which is poorly staffed and equipped to combat drug trafficking, is responsible for the arrests that you have reported. I would like to thank him for that. In Saint-Ouen, on the contrary, 200 police officers came to "clean the ground" to prepare for the landing of the Directorate-General of Internal Security! I do not ask for 200 officials; I simply ask that the police prefecture and the Ministry of the Interior become aware that the state cannot, at the same time, have a strong – and legitimate – ambition for the RER B station in the Bourget, which will concentrate four to five transport lines within two or three years, and refrain from fighting so that the inhabitants and thousands of people who will frequent these places daily are neither new customers nor new victims of drug trafficking. Since the Directorate-General for Internal Security is establishing itself in Seine-Saint-Denis, it must be aware that the problems arise not only at the foot of its offices but also at the side, and that equally important efforts must be made there, especially on major transport nodes that will attract tens of thousands of people day after day, enriching the traffickers if they are not stopped by then.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u89	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor to raise her question, No. 1405, concerning dance schools and the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u90	Since February 17th and the publication of Decree No. 2021-173, all dance classes for amateur children, previously authorized, are prohibited. The prohibition applies to all types of structures and dance styles. On the other hand, courses for professionals or organized as part of professionalising training are still allowed. I will not go back to the activity itself: popular with the French, it affects 6 million people, and we know the qualities of it – it solicits the body in its entirety, stimulates the brain, makes it joyful and creates a social bond. Nor will I dwell on your choice to close the dance classes: we know the gravity of the covid-19, and we know that it was necessary to test, alert and protect. However, dance schools face real financial difficulties. Thanks to the Solidarity Fund, they have been able to cope with their burdens so far, and are now awaiting a text on the resumption of their activities. But this recovery will be difficult, as families will hesitate to register their children for a quarter; A drastic reduction in the number of dancers would have a significant financial impact. The President of the Republic has announced a four-stage deconsolidation. When will the dance schools reopen, Madam Minister? What are your proposals for reviving the practice of sports and cultural activities, especially dance? What arrangements are planned to provide financial support to dance schools until September?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u91	The Minister of Culture has the floor, which I am pleased to welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u92	The teaching of dance is a major issue, and many parliamentarians from all walks of life have asked me about the situation in this sector in recent weeks. I want to reiterate the Ministry of Culture's commitment to dance: it is a cultural and artistic practice, and I know the role it plays in many territories; It is very often the first access to culture for young people. Dance schools are not forgotten; Very recently, exchanges have taken place with their various representatives. They have been affected by the health crisis, such as the entire body of artistic education, and by administrative closures aimed at limiting the spread of the virus. However, the President of the Republic gave prospects for a resumption last week. Schools which are not subject to the authorization or recognition of the Ministry of Culture may benefit from the partial activity scheme and the solidarity fund. I remain fully mobilised to ensure that these aids are extended and adapted as long as necessary for those cultural sectors whose activity is limited or at a standstill, even as a result of the health crisis. In addition, we have evolved the culture pass, intended for 18-year-olds, so that it values the practice of dance. This tool, which will soon be widespread, will give a large share to artistic and cultural practices; It will also be an instrument for reviving culture in the territories, to encourage young people to visit massively the cultural places that make all the wealth of our country. Beyond that, I will remain particularly attentive, in the weeks and months to come, to the situation of the dance sector, also developing all the levers that can encourage amateur practices. Finally, I would like to remind you of the timetable which can be followed by institutions receiving the public (ERP) of type R or L, i.e. places of instruction for dance and conservatories: as of 19 May, education can of course continue for minors alone, as at present; On 9 June, contactless dance will be open to major students; On July 1st, dance, including contact, will be open to all types of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u93	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u94	I'm glad to see you perfectly restored. Thank you for these reassuring answers for dance schools and all athletes. We look forward to the pass culture with great impatience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u95	Mr François-Michel Lambert, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1420, concerning the lobbying of the tobacco industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u96	Madam Minister of Culture, thank you for being here this morning to answer major questions, including mine, about the tobacco lobby and its ability to influence and deceive the viewer. On Sunday, April 11, the 20-hour newspaper of France 2 broadcasted a report on the parallel tobacco trade, illustrating it with images of very visible salesmen in Marseille, in the Noailles district in particular, and in other parts of France. These retailers are dozens in size and flood the black market with low-priced cigarettes, which are thus exempt from the Government's tax and health policy. As we know, these cigarettes come in the vast majority from the cigar manufacturing plants of the tobacco majors that flood the markets of low-cost countries, like the Algerian Marlboro who arrive in France in whole containers. However, France 2 addresses the issue by simply speaking of counterfeiting, which is not the same, by showing a clandestine factory in the Netherlands and quoting completely false figures. In doing some research on the site of France Télévisions, it can be seen that, in order to carry out its report, the editorial staff relied on the figures communicated by Philip Morris International, the world's leading tobacco producer, who is highly suspected of being one of the main organizers of parallel trade, which is paradoxical. The journalists therefore agreed, without asking too many questions, to spread truncated arguments. Their report is therefore contrary to Article 5.3 of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which prohibits relaying cigarette lobbying. The parallel trade in tobacco in France represents 16 billion cigarettes consumed but not purchased in France, i.e. one in three – 30%. The tax shortfall amounts to $5 billion and the loss of profits for the Buralists amounts to $400 million. However, these cigarettes mainly come out of cigar factories, with the real counterfeiting of clandestine factories accounting for only 1 to 2 %. Yet the viewers of France 2 now think the opposite thanks to this clever lobbying operation. What measures do you intend to take to prevent the public audiovisual service from relaying this kind of misinformation harmful to the health of the French and to the proactive action of the Government – which I support – in the area of prevention, including the €10 package?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u97	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u98	You know that during my long political career, the fight for public health and the fight against tobacco have structured a number of my decisions. I want to point out that in 1991 I passed the so-called Evin Act against the instructions of my political group. My commitment to these issues is unwavering. Your question first gives me the opportunity to welcome the public service information offered by our country, as well as the professionals who, on a daily basis, design and disseminate this information. Our country is fortunate to have, with its public service media, a pluralistic offer of high quality. Present on radio, television and all new digital media, this offer is both local, regional and national. In a context of increasing sources of information and proliferation of false news, the provision of public service information must more than ever be a reference offer by its rigour and the confidence it inspires or which it must inspire all our citizens. With regard to the report you are referring to, it is not for me, as Minister of Culture, to comment on the ethics of journalists from France Télévisions or on the honesty of information. This role is primarily the responsibility of journalists and their editors. Since 1982, it has been devolved to an independent administrative authority, the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA). In particular, France Télévisions' specifications state that the company is rigorous in the presentation and processing of information. It verifies the merits and sources of the information. The APF can therefore sanction breaches of these principles. Since 2016, a committee has also been set up with society on the honesty, independence and pluralism of information and programmes. This committee may refer to or be consulted by any person and must inform the APF of any facts that may contravene these principles. Therefore, if this failure has taken place, I hope – and I do not doubt – that all the consequences will be drawn from it. I repeat, as a former Minister of Health, I know how much the fight against the ravages of smoking, which you share, is a major public health objective and I appreciate the importance of bringing the best information to our citizens on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u99	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u100	Thank you for your very clear and proactive response to tobacco control and its ravages. I recall that smoking causes 80000 deaths in France every year, and some estimate that this represents up to 120 billion euros of loss of public money each year, the equivalent of a covid. Action is therefore essential. I have sent a report to the public prosecutor, under article 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on what Philip Morris International is handling in Algeria, and I have tabled two bills to act on the WHO protocol. We'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u101	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to put her question, No. 1425, concerning the museum of prehistory in Tautavel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u102	Madam Minister of Culture, I am pleased to see you again in this healthy Chamber. I would like to alert you to the worrying situation of the Tautavel Prehistory Museum and its research centre. With a view to a future exit from the health crisis, art and culture must regain their full place, making the French cultural exception a reality. In my constituency, in the Corbières, on the caune of the Arago, the museum of Tautavel allows to discover daily life under the prehistory of the man of Tautavel, a human fossil skull – the oldest found in France, dated 570000 years before the present. This archaeological site is a great tool for the dissemination of archaeology sciences and a excavation site that brings together European searchers and researchers. For security reasons, these excavations have been interrupted for two years and the rich collections are presented under worrying old conditions. The University of Perpignan prohibited any intervention by its agents on the site and the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs (DRAC) suspended the authorization of the excavations until security issues were resolved. This abandonment of excavations endangers the future of the museum of prehistory and unbalances the economy of an entire territory. Despite the promised aid, the cost of the work, which is estimated to be particularly high, is very difficult for a local community of 900 inhabitants. Art and cultural heritage, as well as health, are essential to our balance and our lives. According to André Malraux, "The museum is the only place in the world that escapes death". Can you confirm the full commitment of the State to evaluate and carry out all the necessary security work, to allow the rehabilitation of the museum of prehistory of Tautavel to be a priority of the Ministry of Culture as a museum in Occitanie, and to assist in the classification of this prehistoric site to the heritage of UNESCO?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u103	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u104	Thank you for your greeting, to which I am extremely sensitive, as well as for your question, which evokes in me a very important personal memory. Indeed, I visited the Tautavel museum with Henry de Lumley, the discoverer of Tautavel's man in the caune of the Arago, and his wife, Marie-Antoinette de Lumley, the co-coverer of Tautavel's man. Visiting this site with Henry and Marie-Antoinette remains one of the great memories of my life. The completion of the necessary conservation work on the cave of the Arago caune, classified as historical monuments, is a priority for my services and for the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs of Occitanie, both to ensure the proper conservation of this emblematic heritage complex and to guarantee the safety of the people who frequent the site and the surroundings, who are quite rocky. The specifications for a master's degree study by a heritage architect are being finalized by the DRAC and will be sent very soon to the town hall, which is the owner. The best subsidy rate will be provided by DRAC to this study when the cost is known, as well as for the resulting work. With regard to the public institution of cultural cooperation (EPCC) manager of the site and museum of prehistory in Tautavel, a new director is being recruited for a proposed appointment in July. The DRAC annually provides 98000 euros of operating support, as well as more than 40000 euros of grants for research and development projects of the museum's audiences. To date, therefore, the State is the largest contributor to this structure. An update of the museum's scientific and cultural project was requested by the DRAC, in order to give the museum all the regional, national and international scope that its extraordinary collections justify. It also requested the launch of a collection project as part of the programming study, the diagnosis of which was made and validated by a steering committee on 4 March. This study is supported to the tune of €100,000 by the DRAC, alongside the partner communities of the public cultural cooperation institution. This validation opens the field for the next step, which will consist of presenting the scenarios and a programmatic outline before the program itself is defined. The renovation project of the Tautavel Prehistory Museum, the cultural and economic engine of this territory, will therefore be one of the priorities of the Ministry of Culture for museums in Occitanie, which should be included in the next State-region plan contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u105	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u106	Thank you very much for your answer. We will welcome you again with pleasure on the site of the caune de l'Arago: you will still be seduced!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u107	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u108	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u109	Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to raise his question, No. 1426, on the salary adjustment of home helpers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u110	As you know, Madam Deputy Minister for Self-Government, I have asked the Government several times in recent years about the upgrading of home helpers. The health crisis has further highlighted the vital and salutary role played by professionals in this sector. The wage increase which should finally take place from 1 October 2021 is a step in the right direction: in addition to progress on wages, it will allow for real career paths, giving perspective to these professions. Nevertheless, this sector has been exaggerated for too long and serious concerns remain. What will the Government do to ensure that all departments contribute to the financing of this measure? To date, only three departments have confirmed that they will pay. This creates serious fears about the risk of territorial inequity. A second concern arises as to the potential inequality between dependent and non-dependent persons if the National Old Age Insurance Fund (CNAV) does not increase its rates at the same time. How will the state ensure that it does not create disparities? The federations of the sector are formal: while more than 80% of French people wish to age at home, it is already impossible, due to lack of staff and financial resources, to honour all requests for support for elderly or disabled people as well as families in difficulty. More than ever, all the players in the sector are waiting for a clear timetable for the "age autonomy" bill. Could you inform us of the dates of its tabling in the Council of Ministers and its consideration in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u111	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u112	Mr President, your question highlights our convergence of views. As you know, the approval of this amendment is a historic measure – indeed voted on on all these benches – of real scope for these professionals, who sometimes had to wait a decade to reach the SMIC. We are on amounts that make it possible to catch up with the wages of the other collective agreements for home help, but this catch-up is a step that must be mentioned, because it is praised by these branches of home help. You raise the question of financial sustainability for the departments, which have this competence. That was precisely what led us to reject the approval of this convention in the first place last autumn. However, we did not draw a line on the ambition to give substance to this revalorisation, on the contrary; But I am interested in dialogue with the departments, as I have shown with regard to the covid bonus. This is a departmental jurisdiction, as you know. I wanted, with the same method used to generalize this covid premium, to drastically reduce the financial burden on these communities. At an additional cost of EUR 300 million, for example, the departments will finance only EUR 150 million. The action of the State therefore allows the Department to assume this essential competence in the uncertain context that you have described, and I believe that we should congratulate ourselves collectively on this. Technical work is under way with the National Association of Directors of Social Action and Health of Departments and Metropolises (ANDASS) and the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government (CNSA) to ensure the practical modalities of the State's contribution to this funding, because if the approach is exceptional, this funding is sustainable. I would like to make it clear, because it is a source of anxiety that has been reported to us. To answer your second question, I asked my department to estimate the impact on social security agencies. Finally, as far as the legislative work you are talking about is concerned, let me answer two things. The first is that we have already undertaken a number of actions, whether it is the creation of the new branch, with its scope, technical aids for preventing loss of autonomy, the large investment plan under way or the action plan for the professions, the subject of which is only one aspect. In short, we have already done a lot and the reform of old age and autonomy is on the track. The second is that I do not forget the law, which I confirm of course the necessity. As the Prime Minister recalled last March, a legislative project on this subject remains open in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u113	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister, for all these elements of the response. On the last point, I hope that you will win your arbitration – and you have our full support – so that this law "high-age autonomy" is given one of the last remaining legislative slots. Competition is fierce with other bills, but it is expected in the territories, by the actors of the territory, by the families. It is therefore very important that the Government choose to put it on the agenda. I know that you are doing everything you can, but unfortunately it remains to convince the Prime Minister of the value of examining this text in the coming weeks – otherwise, as I know, it will not be studied during this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u115	Mr Bastien Lachaud, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1398, concerning the closure of the CPAM reception points in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u116	"Your reception area is closed. For any request, you can make an appointment, which will take place at the Noisy-le-Sec reception area, via the ameli account or the 3646". These are the words that can be read on the portal of the premises of the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM) of Pantin, in my constituency. These premises have been closed since the first confinement, and may be permanently closed. In Pantin, but also in Bondy and the Lilas, the CPAM announces the closure of its reception points without any consultation with the mayors of the communes. For twenty years, health insurance has reduced its presence in Seine-Saint-Denis: twenty years ago, the department had about fifty reception points; Today, only fourteen remain open to the public. Closing these local access points means adding to our citizens' efforts and making life more difficult for them. We have to listen to Adama, mother of the family in Pantin, who has to move to the reception point of Drancy-Bobigny: "I take the metro, after the tram; It's really annoying. And sometimes, over there, we still have to wait, line up. While it's just to have information." Worse, it is to deny access to public service to a large number of Sequano-Dionysians – the most fragile, precarious, elderly, disabled – because they cannot move, because they do not have a computer or because they cannot take the steps remotely, alone, without anyone to help them. The consequences are dramatic: people are no longer reimbursed, because the phone hangs up, because they have not been able to make themselves understood, because they are abandoned. These closures are a symbol of a policy of permanent cutting in all the public services of Seine-Saint-Denis, when the department is already in dire need and its population would need it most, when we are in the midst of a pandemic. Why? To save money, as usual. I already hear your answer: the CPAM does not close, it adapts, is redeployed and other receptions open elsewhere, in Clichy-sous-Bois or Aubervilliers. Fools. The facts are there: the closures are maintained, and they follow each other; Fifty reception points twenty years ago, fourteen today: everything is said. Then finally stop the double language! What I ask you is simple: return to the closures of the CPAM reception points in Pantin, Bondy and Les Lilas and finally act to ensure the physical reception and equal access of all to the public service of health insurance and to public services throughout the Seine-Saint-Denis department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u118	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u119	Mr President, I will try to give you a serious answer, even if you might call it a mess. I share your concern – especially in the context we know – to maintain the link between insured persons and health insurance, which is the expression of national solidarity. The Caisse nationale de l'assurance maladie must mobilise all available means, the agencies, the telephone, the e-mail – believe me, it uses it, I verify it regarding vaccination – to be in tune with the needs of all the public and adapt accordingly. Physical reception, of course, remains a privileged channel of contact, especially for insured persons in financial difficulties. This is why health insurance operates in the Seine-Saint-Denis department a network which remains particularly dense in view of the size and population of the department, with fourteen agencies that are larger and, it seems, better served. In addition, the CPAM is recruiting some 30 staff members to ensure the reception of users and to change its host fabric by adapting it to the socio-demographic developments of the department. The problem that you raise is that old reception facilities, which have become unsuitable for needs, are being relocated to larger and more accessible areas, especially for people with disabilities. This accessibility is also ensured by a more appropriate positioning of the existing centres in relation to the transport offer. It is also this criterion that is taken into account for the forthcoming opening of the new agencies that you mention in Aubervilliers and Clichy-sous-Bois. However, you omit that the Government also intends to capitalize on the deployment of the France services network to provide an additional outreach service, which I can already see in rural areas, for users of other municipalities. Thus, the services are actually strengthened in your department, through the recruitment of agents and the opening of new, more accessible agencies. In addition, in order to ensure that the reconfiguration of reception sites in the department is carried out without disruption of the reception of insured persons, the process has been, and will continue to be, the subject of consultation with the communities. In addition, there will continue to be permanences, particularly in the premises of Bondy's Public Service House. Originally from a department where the social situation is extremely fragile, I am particularly sensitive to the issue that you raise in terms of continuity of care, physical reception, the orientation of insured persons and, more generally, the challenges in terms of access to the law and "go towards" which are very important at this time. I think I have provided you with the answers that your question called for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u120	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u121	Madam Deputy Minister, you have not answered me. You reaffirmed the macronist "at the same time": the reception centres are closed – reduced from fifty to fourteen in twenty years – but, at the same time, the services would be more present in the department and better delivered to the citizens? That's not true! Again, you're lying. Public services are destroyed in Seine-Saint-Denis, and you contribute to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u122	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u123	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to raise her question, No. 1399, on the risks of drug use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u124	I am a Member of Parliament for an electoral district on the 18th and 19th arrondissements of Paris, which concentrates most of the drug trafficking and drug use points in the public space of the territory. In Stalingrad Square, in the gardens of Eole or at the door of the Chapel, the scenes of consumption of crack are daily. Often, more than a hundred drug users and users gather in these places, causing disturbances to public tranquillity and the daily lives of residents. By plunging these people who were already living on the line into great precariousness, the health crisis has aggravated a structural problem. After months of questioning the inhabitants, the inhabitants and the elected representatives of whom I am, the local and national executives began to react. The crack plan led by the City of Paris, the State and the regional health agency has made it possible to strengthen maraudes and increase temporary accommodation for drug users and users. However, according to the associations, the effort remains insufficient. In addition to the difficulties of access to law, care or sustainable housing, it is the issue of consumption conditions that is constantly returning. The lower-risk consumer room managed by the Gaia association in the 10th arrondissement has had a positive effect on users and users, limiting the risk of complications related to drug use while reducing nuisances in the public space. However, to date, the room is open only to injectors and injectors, excluding inhalers and inhalers who are therefore reduced, for the most precarious, to consume in public space. The experiment started in 2016 will end in 2022. According to the Gaia association, at least six more rooms are needed in Île-de-France, four of which are in Paris. So my questions are as follows. Will this mechanism be extended and extended to meet the needs of our territory? If so, what measures do you intend to take to ensure the full cooperation of the prefecture of Paris and the public prosecutor's office, which, according to the actors and actresses on the ground, sometimes show a strong reluctance to do so, sometimes complicating the work of the associations? What other means do you intend to implement in terms of housing, medical and social support, access to care – including psychological care – to reduce the risks and disorders associated with drug use? Will the status of personnel accompanying users and users within the dedicated structures finally be re-evaluated in line with the commitment and skills of this other category of medical and social personnel forgotten from Ségur?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u125	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u126	In the area of illicit drugs, our public health policy aims to prevent the first use of drugs as well as to support users and reduce the effects on their health and, above all, their consumption. The reduction of risks and damage enshrined in the law is reflected in the mobilization of a range of interventions and mechanisms, among them the medical and social structures, namely the reception and support centres for the reduction of the risks of drug users and the centres for the care, accompaniment and prevention of addictology. These structures help fragile and very often stigmatized individuals whose life paths are marked by trials and ruptures. As you know, this risk reduction policy is part of the 2018-2022 national advocacy program and the 2016 law to modernize our health care system. On this legal basis, the Government finances support for the risk reduction equipment programme, prevention in a festive environment, and the provision of naloxone to prevent overdose of opioids. More than 450 million euros, renewable from year to year, are devoted to the functioning of the structures. Between 2019 and 2020, an additional EUR 12.4 million was channelled towards these structures to strengthen and improve the management and reduction of risks for users. The testing of low-risk consumer rooms has been planned for a period of six years from the opening of the first room. It started in 2016 in Paris and then in Strasbourg, in rooms that offer users care, a screening of infectious diseases, and promote orientation to treat their addiction. At their opening, these rooms were financed to the tune of EUR 1 million; Additional appropriations have been mobilised, in particular to extend their operating hours. Other rooms may be allowed to open, and funding is foreseen – 1 million euros per room. In both Paris and Strasbourg, the 180 daily users of each room are mostly very precarised, and a significant proportion of them were unknown to the addictology structures before. After four years of existence, the results of the two rooms, based on intermediate results, appear to be positive since they allow for the care of vulnerable populations who did not frequent the traditional reception structures. We also note a decrease in the presence of injection equipment on the highway. The final results of the evaluation are to be submitted very soon. They will assess the relevance of the scheme in terms of satisfaction of users and residents, improved access to care, detection of infectious diseases such as HIV and support for social inclusion. These results will help inform the executive and Parliament on the value of this complementary mechanism which we intend to pursue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u127	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u128	Madam Deputy Minister, what you said, I already know. The inhabitants and elected representatives of the districts concerned are confronted with these realities, but also with shortcomings. I have little hope for your comments: you do not bring the concrete answers expected by the users, but also by the inhabitants. I remind you that a few days ago, quite serious incidents broke out in the 19th arrondissement of Paris: locals fired fireworks at drug users gathered at the foot of the headquarters of the Caisse régionale de l'assurance maladie. The situation is therefore extremely tense and, for the moment, your answer is really not up to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u129	Mr Charles de Courson, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1419, on health safety and small units of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u130	The question of the recognition of health care providers has been at the heart of the negotiations of the Ségur de la santé, which have led to an agreement with the union organisations representative of the hospital civil service providing for a salary increase of 183 euros net per month for the staff of hospital establishments and EHPADs in the hospital civil service. This measure was then extended to staff of EHPADs in the territorial civil service and private EHPADs, as well as to social and medical-social professionals in other sectors – accompaniment of persons with disabilities, home help, child protection. In a statement on Monday, April 12, 2021, on the occasion of the third follow-up committee of the Ségur de la santé, the Minister of Solidarity and Health unveiled the contours of the second stage of the Segur agreements: the upgrading of careers for paramedics. However, one sector remains forgotten, while it has demonstrated, as well as the EHPADs, an unwavering engament in the health crisis: the small units of life, and in particular the homes of reception and residence for autonomy (MARPA). While the Government had re-aligned the salaries of hospital staff, caregivers, home helpers and EHPAD staff, what was it considering in order to remedy that inequity and injustice with regard to the small units of life, particularly the MARPAs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u131	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u132	Mr President, thank you for your question, which allows me to recall the crucial role played by the MARPAs. They allow for a diversification of accommodation for our seniors, which is most often in line with their wishes, especially in rural areas. Your question also allows me to recall the historical nature of the salary adjustments undertaken in the framework of the agreement of the Ségur de la santé, while the construction of the revalorisation of quarries begins. €9 billion will be invested in the human resources that are dedicated to many institutions; It is an essential tool to improve the attractiveness of trades in these public structures. In order to extend these measures to medical-social health facilities, a mission was entrusted last December to Michel Laforcade, former Director General of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) Nouvelle-Aquitaine. In this context, the majority of trade union organizations, the Fédération hospitalière de France (FHF) and the Government have reached an agreement to upgrade all non-medical professionals in the structures attached to health facilities and autonomous EHPADs in the hospital civil service – professionals who, most of the time, walk along the same corridors as their colleagues. In this context, you are asking me about the case of small units of life and MARPA. With regard to the latter, their name corresponds to a label issued by the Central Fund of Agricultural Social Mutuality (MSA) to certain structures for the elderly in rural areas. This label is independent of the legal category to which the structure belongs. In practice, it is issued to two main categories of establishments: independent residence and small units of life. MARPAs licensed as independent residences, whose activity is less care-oriented, will therefore benefit from the upgrading measure, for those attached to a public health facility or to an EHPAD under the hospital public service. Small units of life are assimilated to small-capacity EHPADs within the meaning of the Code of Social Action and Families. Their staff is eligible for a salary increase of 183 euros per month. In the case of the private sector, the transposition of this additional salary increase should be considered as early as 2022; Its terms and conditions are currently the subject of negotiations and work, in conjunction with all employers' federations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u133	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u134	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Madam Minister, thank you for this precise answer, which contrasts with the fog that often surrounds the comments of the members of the Government. However, there is a small supplementary question: how will this additional cost be borne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u135	By the State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u136	Can the president allow you to respond?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u137	The Minister-in-Office must also wish to take the floor again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u138	That is the fundamental problem, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u139	That is the subject of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u140	The other structures received funding from the CNSA, but this does not concern independent residences, small units of life, or MARPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u141	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to put her question, No. 1401, on the transfer of sick children from overseas to mainland France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u142	I addressed the problem of sick reunited children transferred to the hexagon to receive appropriate care during the examination of the bill to accompany children with chronic pathology or cancer. Today I wish to return to this painful subject, since the format of this bill does not allow for an overall understanding of this issue. The medical evacuation of a sick child to the point of leaving for treatment so far soon becomes a tangle of obstacles breaking over a whole family. The General Social Security Fund (CGSS) supports a single parent's ticket, in addition to the child's ticket, but it should be noted that if evacuation requires the presence of a doctor or nurse, it is the medical staff ticket that is funded at the expense of the accompanying parent's ticket. It is true that communities also fund another ticket and a few incidentals. But, when a child arrives in metropolitan France, the family has to cope, in addition to the illness, with financial problems: the cost of additional housing is not completely compensated while the accompanying parent, who has had to leave his or her job, finds himself or herself in a precarious situation. More fees and less financial resources. Understand that, in addition, this child leaves everything he calls his – a region, a climate, a culture, his other parent, a sibling, friends – to find himself in a place where he has no landmark, without the prospect of an imminent return or, unfortunately, a short return. It is in this state of mind and in this chaotic scenario that a child and a family are preparing to fight a serious disease. The upheaval is such that the League Against Cancer speaks of a double penalty for overseas children with cancer treated in hexagon. In order to optimize the chances of healing, "the League calls for a personalized care to be offered to each child or adolescent so that his/her life project (schooling, training, leisure...) and his/her needs (presence or communication with family, relatives, friends, siblings, return home) are respected. In order to ensure that these children do not suffer a double penalty, the League wishes that reimbursements for costs related to their remote location during treatment should be allowed beyond administrative standards, but taking into account the wishes of the child and his/her plans for life. » Please understand, Madam Deputy Minister, that my first wish is, of course, that the hospital system in Réunion is capable of treating all pathologies, but we must deal with the current situation. We are now waiting for the care of our little patients in line with the recommendations of the League against Cancer, and which includes, for example, financial compensation for the parent who stops working and, if possible, for the long stays, the accompaniment of all the siblings – for which no arrangements are currently foreseen. How do you intend to continue this reflection that we are developing today to allow our children to be cared for under the same conditions as all the children of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u143	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u144	Mrs Lebon, beyond the answer I will give you, which recalls the regulations in force, know that the subject you are referring to affects us all, as parents and grandparents; Nothing would be worse than thinking I'm insensitive to it. Ensuring access to care for all citizens of our country, in all its geographical diversity and given the heterogeneity of infrastructure, is our constant concern. Equal access to so-called recourse care for ultramarine residents is a common priority of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of Overseas Affairs, which is included in the National Health Strategy 2018-2022. It is in this context that mechanisms have been created to enable the health insurance to transport patients from the ultramarine communities to the metropolis, when the state of health so requires. The support of patients thus transferred to mainland France is of course of particular importance when it comes to minor children. The regulations in force already provide for the health insurance to cover the cost of transport of an accompanying person for patients under 16 years of age whose condition requires the assistance of a third party. This care provides minor patients with support when a trip to the metropolis is necessary to receive appropriate medical treatment. The social action of the health insurance funds supplements this benefit. They can cover the cost of transportation beyond the amount provided by the legal benefit, to finance the travel of the patient's dependants and more generally of a companion, when the patient cannot travel alone – a case that is quite frequent because of the young age of these patients. On the other hand, the transport costs incurred by the family close to the patient are more supported by developed support and private initiatives. The voluntary sector is structured in this direction, with the support of public actors. If transport costs are not covered by sickness insurance, which is automatically covered, several arrangements are nevertheless mobilizable to ensure the necessary support for minor patients throughout their care journey.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u145	Mrs. Lebon, you have 30 seconds left to react, if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u146	I suspect, Madam Minister, that you are not insensitive to this situation. I would still like to go back to one particular case: the situation of Kerane, 12 years old, with an incurable brain tumor, which I met in March. His parents had never left La Réunion and were completely lost when they arrived in Paris. It is for these people that I am fighting today and that I want other devices to be developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u147	Mr Loïc Dombreval has the floor to put his question, No. 1407, on medical deserts and territorial strategic choices in the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u148	Geographical balance in the provision of care is a key condition for territorial development. The reinvigoration of rural areas therefore requires combating medical desertification. Today, rural areas account for more than 30,000 communes, 80% of which are growing in population. One in three French citizens, more than 21 million of our citizens, live in rural areas. On 13 October 2017, the Government presented a plan for equal access to care in the territories, deployed with RHAs, which is structured around four priorities to propose solutions to the problems identified by patients, but also by elected officials and health professionals. The four priorities in question are: an increased presence of doctors and caregivers; a digital offer of care to abolish distances; better organization of health professions; co-construction of the territorial strategy between the actors involved. Unfortunately, the second district of the Alpes-Maritimes, of which I am the deputy, now concentrates the majority of the medical deserts of the department, whether it is public or private medicine, the presence of nurses or midwives, the corresponding doctors of the SAMU, or even multi-professional health homes. The same applies to veterinary medicine, which is a problem for farmers in the district. This medical desertification is of particular importance in the current health context and requires differential treatment. Indeed, if 88% of the population of the Alpes-Maritimes resides on the coastal strip, there is a whole rural hinterland with serious advantages for sustainable development, where medical deserts are numerous. In the hinterland of Scotland or Nice, thirty-seven communes have no pharmacy or doctor, and emergency services are often more than an hour's drive away. These challenges, markers of territorial inequalities, constitute a major obstacle to the development of the territory. Indeed, I see this regularly in my constituency: territorial health justice is a fundamental condition for the success of other public policies. In February 2021, Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, went to meet local health care providers and elected officials who were facing a catastrophic health situation. I thank him for this visit and pay tribute to all the agents of the State and local authorities fully mobilized, to the various caregivers, as well as to the local elected officials who are closest to their administration during this crisis. Madam Deputy Minister, what do you intend to do to revitalize the national plan for equal access to care in the territories, presented on 13 October 2017, and thus fight against the medical deserts, which are currently too numerous, especially in the eastern part of the Alpes-Maritimes department?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u149	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u150	Thank you, Mr. Dombreval, for asking me about a problem that I know well enough to have been elected in a very rural constituency where desertification is a regular issue. The problem admits few ready-made solutions; They must be broken down by territory. Despite all the proposals that have been put on the table to haranguer the crowds and bring medical students to us, despite the efforts made by the state, communities and successive governments, it must be noted that our territories do not yet arouse enthusiasm. The subject must be the subject of real reflection. I know your mobilization for your territory and your fine knowledge of the health situation – you yourself are a healthcare professional. In the vicinity of Vence, for twenty-four thousand inhabitants, there are thirty-one general practitioners, fourteen liberal specialists, sixty-eight liberal nurses, forty-two masseur-kinesitherapists, nine pharmacies, three midwives, three laboratories, a multidisciplinary health home in Roquesteron, a home nursing service (SSIAD) and a home hospital service (HAD), the difficulty being that all these services are concentrated in the same municipality of Vence, which you know well. I appreciate the difficulty of this territory, but you, like me, know that we must not resign: a multi-professional health care project is under way in Puget-Théniers, and this valley will benefit from the extension of the intervention area of the HAD services. Several devices, many of which came from the "my health 2022" strategy, are also deployed or in the process of being deployed: the hospital in Antibes opens advanced teleconsultations of cardiology and paediatrics at the hospital in Puget-Théniers; positions of assistant and specialist in gynaecology or pneumology are created in shared time at the multi-professional health home of Saint-Vallier-de-Thiey; the hospital in Puget-Théniers is requalified as a community hospital, with a grouping of sanitary beds; Roquesteron and Valderoure also have a propharmacy with drug depot to meet needs. In addition, health insurance is beginning to contract with coastal specialists, who would be on vacation, and both ARS and the prefecture continue to work with general medical students to promote exercise in rural areas. Doctors more than 30 minutes away from an emergency department are deployed by the regulation of the UAS for the management of an emergency in 15 minutes. Innovative solutions are therefore being deployed to provide operational responses. As far as the current health situation is concerned, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, has committed himself to sending the doses of vaccines in advance, given the situation you are referring to. We are therefore fully engaged in the service of your territory and have been trying, for several years, to deploy a series of solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u151	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor to put her question, No. 1409, on the Nord-Essonne hospital group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u152	My question concerns the ongoing hospital reorganization in the north of the Essonne department. Planned for 2024 in the commune of Orsay, the hospital group Nord-Essonne, the future reference hospital of the Saclay plateau, arouses as much interest as concern. This facility, which will meet the needs for access to care adapted to new pathologies through the establishment of an important technical platform, will also increase the capacity for hospitalization in the territory. Thus, the Nord-Essonne hospital group will be able to offer adapted care and excellence. However, the arrival of this new hospital has given rise to many concerns, including the potential risk of declining the supply of community-based care. The fears expressed by elected officials and user groups have all been related to the future of existing establishments in the municipalities of Longjumeau and Orsay. Many exchanges organized by the management teams were able to reassure on the maintenance of activity. In Longjumeau Hospital, for example, it will always be possible to be welcomed to emergencies and follow-up counselling services will always be offered. The main aim will be to welcome a new centre of multi-purpose medicine around geriatric and palliative care and an outpatient plateau for chronic pathologies. So, Madam Deputy Minister, can you reassure the Essonnians about the effective maintenance of the proximity offer at the Longjumeau and Orsay sites, as envisaged by the strategy of transformation of the health care system "my health 2022"? What coordination will be established with private hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u153	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u154	Our priority, Madam Member, is clear: we want to guarantee the people of northern Essonne, as well as the French as a whole, quality community care. It is this objective that guides the sharing of certain services of the Nord-Essonne hospital group. The hospitals in Longjumeau, Juvisy and Orsay are currently suffering from duplication of services and a lack of attractiveness. The aim of the project is to consolidate certain activities on a single site, on the Saclay plateau, and to respond to all these issues. We are also very sensitive to the issue of access to care. In order to guarantee an offer of proximity to people who will be further away from the future hospital, not all services will of course be grouped on the Saclay plateau. This is why the Longjumeau site maintains a proximity offer with an on-site consultation emergency antenna, an imaging service and a general medical activity. I also want to be clear on one point: the services of adult psychiatry and to a child-child population in the Orsay hospital will not be transferred. I know that this is a matter of concern and it seems to me essential to make that clear. On the other hand, the follow-up and rehabilitation care of the Nord-Essonne hospital group should be consolidated in Orsay. In the interests of physical accessibility to the provision of care and coordination between professionals, a multi-professional health home will also be created. Finally, on the Juvisy site, a multipurpose, geriatric suite care facility of 130 places will be created. The site of this municipality will also host a follow-up and rehabilitation facility in full hospitalisation and day hospitalisation. All these elements are naturally studied in coordination with ARS Île-de-France and its departmental delegation, and the ministry closely follows this project of territory, a project of magnitude, while ensuring the quality of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u155	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u156	I would like to thank the Minister for reassure us of the specific purpose of this project, which can only be of benefit to the Estonians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u157	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1414, concerning the hospital centre of Roquefraîche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u158	The news fell on 22 April, when my question had just been published, three days earlier, in anticipation of our debate this morning. We were informed that the Roquefraîche hospital in Lauris, in my constituency, will close on January 1st. What can be said about this unacceptable decision, which a whole basin of life will suffer? What are the reasons that drive your services and the ARS, under your ministerial responsibility, to put in an impasse this exceptional site whose deconstruction will cost more than 3 million euros? When this building is closed and left abandoned, it will be at the mercy of the squatters, with the risks and consequences that this will entail for an entire environment. But before that, I do not understand the reasons why you condemn an entire population, without concern for its point of view and that of the elected ones, abused by a succession of unfulfilled promises. While our country has just lived and is still undergoing an unprecedented health crisis, what are the reasons for considering neighbourhood structures in our rural areas as negligible quantities? What are the reasons behind this decision as we take stock of a breathless health system, a lack of structures and resources? How can we not question the need to preserve the hospital in Lauris, which, in connection with the hospital in Cavaillon, fulfils indispensable complementary missions, with health personnel who did not fail during this pandemic, on the contrary, carrying out their mission with professionalism and dedication to accommodate post-covid patients from the territory and other regions? In Lauris, the statements of the President of the Republic stating that lessons should be learned from this crisis were heard. They echo the promise of your predecessor, Mrs. Buzyn, to preserve her hospital. The only pneumonology department in the department, Roquefraîche will close on January 1st, however, a victim of purely accounting logic. It is in this dramatic health context, and recalling the words of the President of the Republic on the "whatever it costs", that I ask you the question: what future do you reserve for the health of our territories in the Vaucluse, and in Roquefraîche in particular?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u159	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u160	The Roquefraîche hospital site in Lauris is part of the inter-municipal hospital centre. It has an activity of seventy-one consecutive care beds, including forty-seven for respiratory diseases. His respiratory follow-up care activity, indeed the only one in the department, is valuable in the crisis we are going through. So I want to be clear: there is no question that this activity is leaving your department. Nevertheless, this establishment, which is a former sanatorium, is located on the outskirts of Lauris, on an isolated site, compounding the sharing of activities with the hospital centre of Cavaillon, to which this site is attached. The technical tray is located at the level of Cavaillon Hospital and allows the carrying out of imaging, scanner, MRI and biology examinations necessary for the pneumonology activity you mention. A transfer of health and medical-social activities to the site of the hospital in Cavaillon is envisaged. This will make it possible to reconcile with the technical platform of the hospital and better coordination of care between specialists without increasing the number of trips of the persons cared for. This transfer will also strengthen medical recruitment, which is currently so difficult in pneumonology. Finally, joint teams could be set up with the hospital centre of Avignon, the reference institution of the department, which has a strong activity of pneumonology medicine. This project also aims to improve the quality of the reception of EHPAD residents in a more adapted, less isolated structure, allowing individualisation of reception capacities. The reconstruction of a unified 107-seat site, delivered in early 2024, will provide all residents of this geographical area with the same quality of accommodation, care, and proximity to the geriatric sector of the hospital centre of Cavaillon, without increasing too much distance from the former site. In addition, the new EHPAD will integrate a non-existent offer in Lauris to date with a daytime reception, a centre of adapted care activities, a unit dedicated to people with cognitive disorders, as well as gardens and therapeutic spaces sensitive to the needs of a proximity offer. I wanted to know the factual elements preventing the respecialization of this site. They are clear and inherent in the configuration of the zone. Its location in the middle of a protected pine forest area carries a high and difficult to predict fire risk. A conversion study is financed by the RSA taking this into account. A situational point will be organised very soon, with which I would like you to be associated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u161	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u162	Thank you for your clarification, Madam Deputy Minister, but I do not entirely agree with what you are saying. I thank you first of all for announcing that I will be informed, because it is always unpleasant to learn this kind of information from the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u163	Oh! Is that possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u164	We keep rationalizing: the hospital in Cavaillon was joined to the one in Avignon, and now Lauris is going to move. We're gonna move the patients to an urban downtown. Lauris is at the foot of the Luberon, where there are certainly forests, but it is a much better life for the people who are there. I will simply recall Mrs Buzyn's remarks two years ago: to foresee the renewal of local hospitals, an ambitious renewal. It is important that this word be kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u165	Mr Vigier has the floor to put his question, No. 1395, concerning the hospital centre in Châteaudun.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u166	Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to ask you about the hospital in Châteaudun, in Eure-et-Loir, a sub-prefecture of a pool of 60000 inhabitants. It is a hospital dating back to the late 1970s. He needs a major investment plan. In recent years he has suffered very hard blows, the closures of maternity and surgery, but has been able to bounce back. Thanks to an extremely efficient management, a real establishment project has been established, which involves an expansion of the emergencies, if necessary, by a completely renovated operating unit, to meet a requirement of the Ministry of Health itself, by the redeployment of sterilization units, by an enlarged pharmacy, by a lingerie service. If I say that this hospital has been able to bounce back, it is that we have been able to create an outpatient ophthalmology service with specialists from the Fifteen-Wingts in Paris: 80 acts a week, while people have not seen an ophthalmo in eighteen or twenty-four months. So we are giving an answer. More recently, an ambitious physical medicine and rehabilitation project has been set up and investments have been made, but unfortunately the RSA has opposed this new medical activity being offered to all people and has called for it to be reserved for dependent elderly people. If I may question you, Madam Deputy Minister, it is that even the outside of the hospital requires an investment plan. The Prime Minister, not long ago, visited Cosne-sur-Loire and announced a major plan for these community hospitals. In this department, which is the department where medical desertification is most pronounced, with seventy-one doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, yet we have a territorial health professional community (CPTS) quoted in "my health 2022" and which makes reference. On Thursday, the day after tomorrow, 1000 vaccines will be insured for all assessors who will take part in the departmental and regional elections. It's a bit of an emergency cry I'm making this morning. I know your ability to listen and it is important to relay this message to Olivier Veran, so that the answer is up to the stakes. We have calculated around 10 million euros. There are times when we need to be able to mobilize. This hospital plays a central role, staff were absolutely extraordinary during the crisis, seven covid centres were deployed, in short this medical community and the population are waiting for a start. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u167	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u168	Mr President, I am aware of your commitment to this territory and of the steps you have taken to improve the situation in the hospital you are referring to, in particular for the investments that must be made there. This structure plays a major territorial role in the Châteaudun basin. Investment aid has been granted regularly, both to support the development of its activity – you mentioned the ophthalmology department – and to meet immediate structural investment needs. As you know for mentioning, the Prime Minister announced last March the investment plan of the Ségur de la santé, which devotes EUR 19 billion to the modernisation of our health system, more than ever mobilized in the face of the crisis. This plan is historic, unprecedented, massive and, I believe, particularly ambitious. In the Centre-Val de Loire region, it translates into 517 million euros, which will be spent on financial consolidation operations (214 million) and investment (303 million). In the same region, consultations are being held within each regional hospital group (GHT) to identify priority investment projects to be carried out. The return of HHT work is expected in September and a regional priority will be established in October. The situation of the Châteaudun Hospital will be examined in this context and, without delay, the dialogue between the ARS and the management of the institution will continue to ensure the immediate needs. This is the best scale of intervention and dialogue to ensure the adequacy of the measures we are taking at the national level. The SRA will therefore continue to support the projects of the hospital, particularly those relating to rehabilitation, by ensuring that they are based on a sound medical approach and ensure continuity of care, to which we are very attached, as well as the sustainability of the activity. The aim is to avoid the pitfalls that you have rightly denounced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u169	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u170	I thank you in advance, Madam Deputy Minister, for your attention to the various arbitrations that are to come. I will be happy to welcome you to Châteaudun as soon as you come to see for yourself the extent of the work to be done. It should be noted that the labelling of community hospitals is still pending and would enable the Government's commitment to these structures to be translated into concrete action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u171	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to put his question, No. 1400, on the collective agreement for home help.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u172	Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to ask you about the approval of amendment 43 to the collective agreement for home help, and above all about the conditions for its implementation. On April 1, you announced the approval by the end of May of this amendment, which will result in a salary increase of 13% to 15% for staff effective October 1, 2021. This announcement puts an end to four years of negotiations and gives rise to great hopes among employees in this sector of activity, who are often paid less than the SMIC. Is it worth recalling that home helpers are key actors in the support of the population, especially in this period of health crisis which has highlighted their indispensable role with vulnerable people? A salary adjustment therefore seems more than justifiable and would be a strong message to employees at a time when we need them so much. The question remains of funding, which engages the State and the departments. Last November, negotiations on the approval of amendment 43 failed due to the lack of an agreement between the two parties. What about everyone's financial commitments today, and how will all this be articulated? The State has proposed to cover 50 per cent of the expenditure from 2022 onwards and to increase its share to 70 per cent for the last three months of 2021. The Assemblée des départements de France, ADF, considered this proposal insufficient and postponed it at the beginning of April, indicating that the need for sustainable financing was far greater than expected. Will the State provide itself with the means to meet its commitments within the announced deadlines without putting departments in difficulty in a budgetary context already constrained by the crisis? Home autonomy is a priority and the expectations of employees in this sector of activity are high. Already scathed by disappointed hopes, some denounce an announcement that would not be financially effective. What do you say to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u173	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u174	You are right to remind us, Mr. Dufrègne, that home helpers are very important players, who offer their services to 80% of people who want to age at home. It is not a question, as I said before, of allowing these people to stay at home as long as possible: the residential turn that we are undertaking must allow them, if they so wish, to stay at home until the end. From this perspective, we obviously need to rethink our medico-social system and improve its attractiveness. This is what we are currently working on, and it begins with the salary revalorisation of these trades. As soon as I arrived, I wanted a co-vid bonus to be paid to staff whose role had not been sufficiently recognized since the beginning of the crisis. We have deployed this measure using the same method we are using today, namely co-financing between the State and the departments. However, once again, we have seen a great disparity between the departments, with only nineteen of them deciding to pay this premium to home help staff. The Government has therefore decided to put EUR 80 million on the table, which has enabled departments that have not yet made an effort to address this gap by financing the measure at 50 per cent. Today I am trying to apply the same method for amendment 43 to the home help collective agreement. As a first step, we have not reached an agreement with the departments, which were probably not ready, but we are now at the foot of the wall and we have to move forward. That is why we approved amendment 43 to the collective agreement on home help, which will be signed next May, with a view to a salary increase that we will ask the departments to apply, but at their own pace – such a measure is obviously not easy to apply – by October 2021. To this end, the Assembly adopted, in the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – an envelope of 150 million euros for 2021 and an envelope of 200 million for 2022. They will enable the State to support the departments in raising the salaries of home help workers. The ADF has indeed expressed itself, but I can tell you, in order to take a look at the departments at the moment, that many of them have the will to implement this improvement, which we welcome. We will also set up a body to observe the gradual rise of this measure in the national territory. In any event, it was not worthy of France that home helpers should be subject to 18 different levels of pay. We must therefore also work on this parameter. I want the exceptional approach that we have undertaken to be sustained and the State to take its part. I thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, like the other groups, for supporting this possibility through the last PLFSS. Each of us must now, in its territory, ensure that the salaries of the staff of the home help associations, who greet it and who are waiting for it to be realized, are respected. This upgrading is essential both for professionals and for the self-reliance support system, which we want to focus on keeping at home. Adding 43 to the home help collective agreement will make it possible to make up for pay gaps that were no longer acceptable. Its financial impact for the departments will be reduced by half and many of them have made known to me their willingness to move towards this revalorisation, which they are already anticipating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u175	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u176	I thank you for reiterating your commitment to raising the salaries of home helpers, Madam Deputy Minister, but according to those in charge of the structures in my constituency, the period chosen to endorse this measure, i.e. the end of May, just before the regional and departmental elections, also seems to have an impact on the negotiations. For example, ADF recently declared that it could not commit to the future local executive. Is there any uncertainty about the agreement between the State and the departments, which is expected to be concluded at the end of May?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u177	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to speak on his question, No. 1415, concerning the work in the EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u178	Deputy Minister, I want to alert you to the many investment needs of medical and social structures, including EHPADs. The expectations created by the Government's announcements regarding an envelope concerning them in the France Recovery plan are important. On 9 March, you announced €1.5 billion over five years. Is this envelope commensurate with the most urgent needs? In my constituency, a large number of EHPADs experience a remarkable state of old age, with double rooms, sometimes without a sickle-up, group showers upstairs and no convivial space. In addition to this, there is often a lack of energy available in areas that are increasingly unsuitable for the ageing of the population in retirement homes. This old age increases operating costs: heating costs, staff costs, because the premises are inadequate and musculoskeletal disorders increase due to inadequate equipment, and those related to absenteeism caused by the deterioration of working conditions. For the fourth electoral district of Meurthe-et-Moselle alone, the EHPADs of Saint-Nicolas-de-Port, Rosières-aux-Salines, Blainville-sur-l'Eau, Lunéville – Saint-Charles and Stanislas –, Einville-au-Jard and Blâmont are in great need of important work. The needs are enormous and their amounts are such that disillusionment is likely to be numerous. So I have a number of questions for you, Madam Deputy Minister. How will EHPADs, outside the metropolis, be able to access investment aid? When will calls for projects be published and commissions put in place? What arrangements are provided for equitable access to such aid? What impact will the relaunch of the investment have on the rates of these establishments, including the accommodation rate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u179	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u180	The investment plan you are referring to, provided for in the Ségur de la santé agreements, is part of the recovery plan and provides for a historic amount of 1.5 billion euros, mobilised over five years, to renovate and transform the housing offer, especially in the most outdated EHPADs. The governance of this plan is ensured by national bodies, the National Council for Health Investment and the Scientific Council, and by decentralized leadership at the level of RHAs. Instructions have already been issued by the Prime Minister on 10 March. The CNSA must specify to the SRA the terms and conditions of allocation and conditions of employment of the first tranche 2021 of 450 million appropriations for this sector. To prepare for this, a standard file is already available on the CNSA website and a technical instruction will be published in the coming days. For 2021, the envelope is distributed as follows: 300 million for real estate investment operations – renovations, transformations, reconstructions –, 125 million for daily investment, which you mentioned – equipment, small works, technical assistance – and 20 million for investment in self-sustaining residences. RSAs are currently setting up selection boards to hear applications. I therefore invite you to read more specifically on this subject with regard to your department, Mr Bazin. I have already asked the SRAs to give priority to projects that propose to transform their offer and network and open up existing EHPADs to learn from the crisis. Nothing would be worse than doing what has already been done and people no longer want. Investment aid is transferable in order to reduce the additional operating costs associated with the investment operation, which will help to limit the impact of the investment on the EHPAD accommodation rates, of which you have been concerned. It should be remembered that CNSA's aid must be complementary, not in substitution for the commitment of any other funding. Furthermore, the CNSA will create, at my request, a laboratory of tomorrow's solutions aimed at co-building, together with stakeholders in the sector, the guidelines for new accommodation solutions, which will guide the criteria for allocating the appropriations of the investment aid plan for the tranche 2022-2024, in the spirit of the residential turn whose ambition I carry. Finally, we will offer support services to project leaders, in partnership with the National Performance Support Agency, ANAP, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery and other partners whose aim is to support managers in the design and conduct of their real estate projects. This will speed up the transformation of the housing supply and will be facilitated by the size of the investment aid plan's credits. I can therefore only invite the institutions you mention, Mr Bazin, to turn to their ARS and to ANAP to ensure that their projects are in line with the call for projects in your territory and with the reform of the old age and autonomy carried out by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u181	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u182	Message received! Thank you for these answers, Madam Associate Minister: I will forward them to the EHPADs in my constituency, who are looking forward to these aids in order to make essential investments. I doubt, however, that the amount provided for the first tranche is sufficient to reassure all those who fight daily for the quality of life of the oldest of us, as the needs are important to ensure the necessary sanitary conditions, thermal comfort, quality of use and full adaptation of the premises. The openness to the outside world that you mentioned is certainly in the right direction, but there is an urgent need to provide massive support for investment in EHPAD, for our elders and for those who work for them. Finally, Madam Minister, I ask you to ensure that the aid is distributed fairly among the institutions so that no EHPAD in our territory is forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u183	I welcome the presence of Mrs Roxana Maracinanu, Minister for Sport, who will answer the next questions on behalf of the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport. Mr David Corceiro has the floor to put his question, No. 1396, on the violent behaviour of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u184	A climate of distrust and violence has developed in recent years among younger people. Some teenagers lose their bearings: they kill themselves in the fights of rixes, they suffer and harass... A month ago, in the Val-d'Oise department, a young girl, Alisha, was killed by two of her comrades after prolonged harassment on social media. The Republic must make progress in accompaniment to these emerging citizens. In their journeys, the lack of knowledge of the judicial system, citizenship and the resulting responsibility is evident. I have exchanged with the members of the association Jeune et Engagé, established in my constituency, which has made the civic responsibility of the child and the young adolescent its daily struggle: it carries out awareness-raising activities in the school environment through simulations of juvenile trials, among others, and through this way ensures an action to prevent the justiciable acts of minors by alerting them to the potential dangers of social networks. The goal is twofold: to prevent the escalation of violence and first-time delinquency, but also to improve the sense of safety in schools and out-of-school settings. Madam Minister responsible for sports, would it be possible to generalize the model of this association in order to cut short the outbreak of violence among young people? How can violent behaviour be affected so that these children become responsible and supportive citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u185	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u186	The serenity at school is a republican requirement; it guarantees quality education for all pupils in France and the best conditions for exercising for national education staff. For a calm climate to exist in school, it is necessary to allow the unity of all actors and the serene exercise of authority, but also to provide an adequate response in case of non-compliance with the rules. Indeed, no form of violence could be tolerated within the school and the Government was fully mobilized to that end. For example, on 5 September 2019 measures were announced which are now in force throughout the country. A departmental focal point in charge of combating school violence leads a dedicated unit; through it, each academic directorate ensures a precise follow-up of all the phenomena of violence in the school environment. A circular detailing the relay devices developed in partnership with the judicial protection of young people (PJJ) has also been published; A finer census is carried out at the level of the surveys to study also the case of polyexcluded pupils, who have been assigned several times to the disciplinary council, and to analyse the actions carried out within the relay mechanisms in order to provide answers to the violence suffered by teachers. In addition, there is a plan to combat school harassment. We are determined to fight this scourge; To that end, we are mobilizing many actors, such as the association that you mentioned and that acts in your territory – they are members of civil society and partners in this fight. We support the creation of many mechanisms, especially those that emphasize sport, which can also be a tool within the framework of educational alliances created in partnership with national education. We thus value resources that were previously insufficiently known, since 335 academic and departmental referents are now dedicated to this topic. Since 2019, a national committee of experts has also been working with the Ministry of National Education on educational and scientific content that is complementary to those proposed by associations to raise awareness of harassment; There is also a free number, 3020, which allows families to be listened to and directed by professionals to the referents of their academy, as well as other specific numbers within each academy. Every effort is made to ensure that families, parents and children, can be supported by phone or internet: another number, 3018, aims to combat cyberviolence; it is completed by a website, nonauharcelement.education.gouv.fr. Highlights mark the school year, in particular a national day of mobilization against harassment at school, the first Thursday following the fall holidays, which invites schools to engage in awareness-raising and information activities. Finally, I wanted to quote and thank the mobile national education security teams; they are present in all academies to secure schools, colleges and high schools. Multi-disciplinary, they intervene to protect and secure schools and their surroundings, but also to support crisis management and support victims. Close work is also being done with the Ministries of the Interior and Justice to strengthen the fight against gangs. You mentioned them earlier: they sometimes cause tragedy in our territory, unfortunately, and it is only by collaborating at the inter-ministerial level that we will manage to fight them effectively. We do so through a national plan and departmental plans that are currently under construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u187	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No. 1397, concerning the situation of deaf athletes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u188	French deaf and hard of hearing have a long and rich sporting history. As deafness is an invisible handicap, many of them have been able to shine in competition, including among the valid ones. However, the specific communication required on the ground, particularly in team sports, obliges the deaf to organise their own competitions, especially since they suffer from a exclusion: they are not admitted to the Paralympic Games, reserved for all athletes with physical and sensory disabilities except hearing disabilities, nor within the French National Olympic and Sports Committee (CNOSF), which deals with non-disabled athletes at the Olympic Games. Deaf athletes have therefore competed since 1924 in the Deaflympics, at the time called "Silent Games". They are organized by the International Committee on Sports for the Deaf (ICSD) and have been recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) since 1955, but not by the French State. Deaflympics medal-winning athletes do not receive any victory bonus and the federations from which they are drawn do not receive any money to reward management in the discipline concerned. However, since its first participation in 1924 in Paris, France has won no less than 311 medals in thirty-seven participations in these games. No one knows the names of these champions, and for cause! The discrimination suffered by these high-level athletes leads them to abandon their careers; more serious in my view, it prevents the democratisation of sport for the benefit of deaf and hard of hearing young people. Madam Minister Delegate, deaf sport needs to be structured in France and the first concerned ask for it themselves. My question is simplistic: will you put an end to the discrimination suffered by these athletes and officially recognize the Olympic Games for deaf and deaf athletes, the Deaflympics, as well as the Olympic and Paralympic Games?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u189	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u190	It is indeed an important theme for sport. The Deaflympics are recognized by the IOC and I myself had the opportunity to compete in a competition in which a deaf, South African athlete was awarded silver: it was at the Sydney Olympic Games, over 200 metres. Many sports adapt to replace a hearing-based departure with a visual system, so that deaf people can start competitions and compete with the valid ones. In other sports, however, this is not possible and the IPC, the International Paralympic Committee, is taking action to officially recognize the Deaflympics, a competition organized by the ICSD. As long as they are not at international level, France can only act within its own federations, as you have said, for a better recognition of the high-level athletes who have won these competitions and for their better inclusion in the federations, so that they can train in good conditions for the selections and competitions reserved for them. The budget allocated by the Ministry of Sport and the National Sports Agency (ANS) to support high-level Paralympic practice and the development of sports practices for persons with disabilities has increased from €2 million to €12 million, representing an increase of 250%. The federations are accompanied by the law that you passed a month ago, which promotes the development of sports practice in establishments for persons with disabilities, regardless of their disability. Deafness is an invisible, sensory handicap that deserves to be better known and recognized by the world of sport, as it is also a way to make people with disabilities more visible in our society. That is why we are investing important resources: we want to succeed in the Paralympic Games of 2024 and we also want to allow for a more democratic practice that is favourable to all people with disabilities. We have therefore increased the budget allocated to it and during the health crisis, we have made it possible to practice sports on prescription or by persons with disabilities, in establishments that were closed to the general public. This has created a dynamic of encounters between these people and the world of sport, including gyms, which often did not welcome them and which begin to offer them the same services as valid people. Finally, very strong support is also given to high performance, since a budget of €20 million has been made available under the Investment Programme for the Future (PIA) to support all those involved in high-level sport. In my last year at the Ministry of Sport, I am committed to paying particular attention to this issue and to including it in the contracts for the delegation of federations for disabled athletes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u191	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u192	Thank you for your answer, Madam Minister Delegate, but the Deaflympics are already internationally recognized by the IOC. I am therefore surprised that we are obliged to wait for other bodies to recognize them. On the other hand, the sums we are talking about are modest – they would be used to recognize the medal-winning athletes by giving them bonus results, and to support the federations that supervise them to give them more resources. This is an essential issue for popular sport: as you know, the commitment of our young people to sport from an early age is also made through a phenomenon of identification. However, identification with high-level athletes who are deaf or hard of hearing can only be done if they are recognized and rewarded institutionally, and it is up to us to do so. It is not so much a problem of money and millions of euros – the sums are modest – as a symbolic issue. Deaf athletes need to be recognized in the same way as Paralympic athletes and it is absolutely necessary for your department to take note of this because they suffer from being the last to not be recognized at the national level. Their request is entirely legitimate and I thank you for taking it into consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u193	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to raise her question, No. 1410, concerning France services houses in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u194	My question concerns the situation in the eastern part of Val-d'Oise, where a strengthening of the state presence is expected. After the abandonment of the EuropaCity project, this territory needs prospects. The Prime Minister will shortly present an action plan which we hope will be a strong signal to his people. The health crisis in our country has revealed many social and territorial inequalities. It seems to have aggravated the existing disparities between certain territories, particularly within the Val-d'Oise itself. The eastern part of this department must be given special attention, allowing solutions to be found adapted to its specificities. What are the avenues envisaged to strengthen the presence of State services in this territory? Vulnerable populations in the eastern part of Val-d'Oise do not live well through the reorganization of services and the closure of community receptions. Disadvantaged and often old, they do not always master new technologies; They want to be able to go to local reception points to be helped in their tax procedures and to benefit from social benefits. A complete reorganization of the tax department is under way in the department; It must lead to the closure of the centres of Louvres, Luzarches and Gonesse. Mr Secretary of State, what is planned for the reception points of the France services houses, in particular with regard to the tax department, and where will they be located? In an urban, peri-urban and rural constituency, the challenges are many if we are to meet the needs of all our fellow citizens, because they do not all have the same opportunities for mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u195	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u196	You are asking me about the strengthening of the presence of public services of the State for the inhabitants of Val-d'Oise. As you know, our objective is to ensure the deployment of fourteen France services spaces in the department, which will cover all of its rural cantons as well as two republican reconquest districts and three that are part of the new national urban renewal programme (NPNRU). The France services areas are all one-stop shops that give access, in one place, to the main administrative procedures of the daily – the registration of a vehicle and all the online procedures concerning it, the RSA, the taxes you mentioned, or the driver's licence – less than thirty minutes from home. It is the return of public service to the heart of the territories, and sometimes even the arrival of services that had never been present as a Pôle emploi, now present in all France services houses. Help in the use of digital services is needed for many people who are very far away from it – I will come back to it later, in the second part of my answer. But what is the actual situation of the deployment of these spaces in your department? Eight France services spaces have been labeled; eight more by June 2021 and six by the end of 2022, bringing their number to twenty-two, eight more than the original target. Three of the five rural cantons are covered and the projections allow us to consider covering eight more, i.e. a total of thirteen cantons out of the twenty-one in your department. The Republican reconquest district of Argenteuil and the NPNRU of Garges-lès-Gonesse are covered to date; According to projections, Sarcelles's will be in the coming months. With regard to the eastern part of the Val-d'Oise and the cantons of the ninth district, on which you draw our attention, the one of Fosses is served by a bus France services which is cared for by the community of communes Carnelle Pays-de-France; that of Goussainville is covered by a house France services just labeled, as part of the wave of April, and this structure, carried by the commune of Goussainville, is located in priority district of the politics of the city (QPV). A second structure, which will take a travelling form, will be created in the coming months under the impetus of the commune of Louvres. To date, the canton of Villiers-le-Bel is not covered by existing or planned France services houses, as it is not part of the list of cantons to be covered. However, it is very close and close to the cantons of Fosses, Goussainville and Garges-lès-Gonesse, all of which are covered. You rightly point out that certain categories of population are remote from new technologies and do not control them well; That is the case of 13 million people in our territory. This is why the State finances the training and deployment of 4000 digital advisors in France services houses for two years. In Val-d'Oise, twelve structures – eight public and four private – have to date been eligible for the assistance of digital advisors. In addition, a tailor-made accompaniment of the Val-d'Oise communities will be set up with the prefecture: an awareness-raising action on this scheme will be organised so that the territory can seize all the unprecedented opportunities in the field of digital inclusion within the framework of the France Relaunch plan. The aim is to encourage the emergence of projects hosting digital advisors France services beyond the twelve that have already been validated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u197	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u198	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer to an essential question: how can public services be brought back to the territories where they are absent? It is up to us to collectively seize these new tools to provide our fellow citizens with concrete answers on how they can access all public servants close to home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u199	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to put his question, No. 1416, on the financial accompaniment of the State for the reconstruction of the valleys in the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u200	How will the Government help the department of the Alpes-Maritimes to overcome the terrible disaster it suffered on 2 October and which continues, after seven months, to severely affect thousands of men and women in our valleys of the Roya, Vesubia, Tinea and Var? During this disaster, which killed sixteen people, two of whom were firefighters, men and women lost everything: their homes, their businesses and sometimes, as in my village of Saint-Martin-Vésubie, their family vault. From the first few minutes I was with these men and women in my canton, in my valleys, where I went forty-two times since the floods. Today, I would like to make myself a spokesperson to express the concern that all of them, including the mayors, are concerned about the absence or at least the slow response of the State. An assessment shows more than EUR 1 billion of damage, of which almost EUR 400 million is for the departmental authority alone. Under the authority of its president Charles-Ange Ginésy, the Alpes-Maritimes department council has already committed 100 million euros of work for seven months. In this context, we expected a strong gesture from the State. When he spoke on 7 October in Breil-sur-Roya, the President of the Republic mentioned several hundred million euros in state aid. To date, only 26 million euros have been released. The weakness and slowness of the State's commitment is beginning to severely penalize municipalities and populations. That is why I call for alarm and alert: we need the solidarity of the State. It should not only be expressed in words, but should be reflected in acts and financial commitments. How much? When? In what form? We can no longer content ourselves with words, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u201	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u202	Mr President, you are asking me about the mobilization of the state following the dramatic weather in the Alpes-Maritimes department last October. In the area of support to local authorities, the State has demonstrated a capacity to respond and support the event. From the first hours and days of the crisis, the state responded present. The Prime Minister came there, and then the President of the Republic made a long visit during which he indicated that national solidarity would be at the rendezvous. As early as 14 October, a prefect specifically responsible for this issue was appointed by the President of the Republic, in order to coordinate the work of the State services in the field and to support all the actors concerned. The State has mobilised resources hailed by the population: reinforcements in civil security – firefighters, military, helicopter rotations – amounted to EUR 19 million. Even before the end of 2020, we also provided some €26 million in grants to communities facing urgent work. After the time of emergency, comes that of the assessment of the damage and their repair. Communities, especially the smallest or hardest hit, must have the time to build their files calmly. Without delay, we commissioned a mission to assess the damage to non-insurable property in communities. The constructive work of the mission was unanimously welcomed by the local elected representatives, of whom you are a member. This type of assessment necessarily takes time, a fortiori when it comes to weather conditions of such magnitude. The inter-ministerial mission had just delivered its findings to the Government. We will quickly draw the consequences. The President of the Republic will shortly specify the amount and modalities of the aid, which will be part of the following framework: on the one hand, the activation of a solidarity fund to finance the reparations taking into account the amount of the damage and what they represent in the local budgets; On the other hand, the mobilisation of common law instruments such as the Barnier Fund, which I confirm to you under the leadership of the Minister for the Green Transition, and the Value Added Tax Compensation Fund (VATF), which will reimburse 16% of all community capital expenditure. The State has also requested and obtained assistance from the European Commission of nearly EUR 60 million from the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF). The European Parliament and the Council must endorse this agreement and authorise the release of the corresponding appropriations. The allocation of these appropriations will be entrusted to the Prefect of the Alpes-Maritimes, in close connection with the local authorities. This division of roles will enable us to meet the strong European requirements for the use of funds, in particular in terms of the timing of use and the admissibility of cases. Finally, we will put in place a contractual framework shared with the communities, to unite our forces and build resilient Roya and Vesubia valleys. The commitment made by the President of the Republic will be fulfilled. The effort of the State will be commensurate with the events.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u203	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u204	Once again, I am disappointed with your answer, Secretary of State. Actually, you're not answering anything new. Everything you've said, we know. Of course, I thank the government services for their mobilization, the prefect who was appointed for his great effectiveness, the relief forces – especially those of our communities – for their coordination. I salute our firefighters and Force 06 teams. That being said, Secretary of State, understand that your answer makes me feel a little angry. We cannot simply recall what has been done. The use of the Barnier fund and a solidarity grant is a matter of the state of play and the application of the law. I ask you again: how many communities will they receive? The only department committed €100 million of expenditure and borrowed €200 million. Some small municipalities, which have spent millions of euros, also have to borrow. Announcements have been made in favour of communities on other topics, but nothing has been announced for those affected. We can no longer understand this concern, these hesitations. We need national solidarity. Seven months after the floods, I regret that it is so weak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u205	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1260.u206	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects; Debate on the State's response to the most precarious during the health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
