ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill by Mrs Patricia Lemoine, MM. Olivier Becht, Pierre-Yves Bournazel and several of their colleagues for fairer, simpler and more transparent access to the borrower insurance market (No 4699, 4624).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u2	In accordance with Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call the articles that have been amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u3	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u4	Since this bill did not give rise to a general discussion, let me begin by commending the considerable work that has been done on the issue of borrower insurance, in particular by rapporteur Patricia Lemoine. In my view, this text contains very positive elements, whether it concerns the information of the insured person or the right to be forgotten. On the other hand, I have some reservations about Article 1, which I proposed to be deleted in committee by explaining to me. In a constructive approach, I now propose to take up the provisions that were the subject of a compromise at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee on the bill to speed up and simplify public action, known as the ASAP Act – compromise provisions that the Constitutional Council had censored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u5	Mrs Patricia Lemoine, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u6	Unsurprisingly, my opinion will be against this proposal to rewrite section 1 because, if we adopt it, it would completely distort the spirit of the bill. Let us recall the main principles which inspired this text: to simplify the procedures for the termination of real estate borrower insurance, to guarantee the consumer full respect for this right of termination – because unfortunately this is not always the case – and to allow, in the context of fair and healthy competition, many homes, first-time dealers, people with modest incomes, to realize savings on their borrower insurance ranging from 5000 to 15,000 euros on average over the total duration of the contract. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] I therefore hope that the termination at any time, provided for in section 1, will be adopted as this is the fundamental element of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u7	The Deputy Minister for Relations with Parliament and Citizen Participation, to give the Government's opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u8	The same opinion for the same reasons: the adoption of the amendment would call into question a central provision of the text aimed at fluidising things so that consumers who borrow benefit from a downward tariff perspective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u9	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u10	To solve a public interest problem, we have the choice between hard law and soft law, i.e., between legislative and regulatory arrangements and place agreements. In the field of insurance products and banking products, we are fortunate in France to be able to rely on the Financial Sector Advisory Committee (FCAC), in which space agreements are regularly found between bankers, insurers, consumers and savers. I think that this is the road to the space agreement that should have been taken in the first instance, even if there is disagreement between bankers and insurers. On the other hand, I regret that the President of the CCSF has not been consulted on the specific issue of borrower insurance, but let's move on. In any event, two insurance questions will have to be asked at the SFCC. First of all, it will be necessary to go further than the Hamon Act, which allows policyholders to terminate their home or car insurance contract one year after it is signed. Why a year? Termination must be authorized within this time limit. Similarly, consideration will have to be given to the possibility of the infra-annual termination of school insurance, foresight and legal protection contracts. If we want to simplify the termination of insurance contracts, we must not limit ourselves to borrower insurance but extend the possibility of infra-annual termination to all insurance contracts. This is a great subject that we can address in the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, and I will work on it personally!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u11	Mr Damien Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u12	I thank the Deputy Minister and especially the rapporteur for their investment in this matter, with whom we had this debate during the consideration of the ASAP bill. It is important to move forward. Each year, only 90,000 contracts are subject to a change in borrower insurance, out of a total of 20 to 25 million contracts. I hear Mr Labaronne's arguments, but it has been fifteen years since the legislator, by the Lagarde and Hamon laws, and especially by the Bourquin amendment, tried to fluidise this market – in vain, as the figures I have quoted attest. In the ASAP Act, the National Assembly adopted this provision, rejected by the Senate and subsequently rejected by the Constitutional Council. On the substance, however, there are already differences between borrower insurance contracts depending on the customer profile; Nothing will change, then. If we strengthen competition, each player will fight to keep its customers and win new ones, which will naturally result in lower rates. The rapporteur recalled this: most customers will achieve at least 5000 euros in savings, and up to 15,000 euros for certain profiles – knowing that it is the most risky profiles that face the greatest difficulties in finding borrower insurance, as some banking and other actors apply prohibitive bank rates to prevent them from becoming customers. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] As in committee, the members of the La République group will support each of the provisions of this bill, for which they will vote; On the contrary, we will naturally vote against Mr Labaronne's amendment, which goes in the opposite direction to what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u13	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u14	I will support Mr Labaronne's amendment and I will go even further: this provision, presented as the cornerstone of the text, will, in my view, have the opposite effects to those you are looking for. The dilemma is simple: to offer the lowest possible prices or to ensure solidarity, i.e. the pooling of risks between borrowers. Increasing competition to lower prices would basically mean placing everyone in a logic of individualisation of risk. The different players – insurers, bankers – will evaluate customers according to the quality of the risks they present, preferring those that are missing as little as possible to the detriment of those that present more risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u15	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u16	Let's just say: young people, in whom the probability of contracting pathologies is lowest, have "good" risks and will be able to take out borrower insurance; On the contrary, older people, because they present "bad" risks, more exposed than they are to the hazards of life, will be offered excessive tariffs. Mutualisation of risks must be a political objective for our society, so that those who present the least risk can make their contribution in solidarity to the insurance coverage of those who present the most risk. We're not at the first test run. A few months ago, we authorized the infra-annual termination of health supplements. The result is eloquent: the rates for health supplements have increased. And because: when competition between market players increases, economic mechanisms are at work to attract new members or customers, and they cost money. Now this money is caught in people's pockets. Contributions increase to cover the risk of nomadism and to cope with competitive dynamics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u17	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u18	On the contrary, care must be taken to ensure that everyone has good health coverage and good borrower insurance sufficient to cover the risks of each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u19	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u20	We had this debate in committee and Mr Labaronne presented his arguments in the same terms as the previous speaker; I told him that he had finally convinced me to vote for this bill. The oldest age groups often have a full professional career behind them and have assets, including real estate; The best heritage of young people, on the other hand, is their youth and good health. Might as well allow them to enjoy it! [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Is that the end of mutualization? I don't believe it. Of course, insurers need to review their plans for defining contracts. Mr. Labaronne referred to car insurance: remember that young drivers pay a premium, which clearly shows the limits of the mutualization that you are defending. I will therefore vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u21	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian has the floor in support of Amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u22	The pre-contractual information of consumers who subscribe to borrower insurance is strongly framed and a single document already exists. This is less true for post-contractual conditions: once the contract has been signed, there is no single document summarizing the elements of the contract, which would enable borrowers choosing to change insurance – which would facilitate the preparation of quotations corresponding to the pre-existing guarantees. The amendment aims to create this single document which, in addition to the infra-annual termination, would facilitate the portability of contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u23	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u24	I hear your proposal, but the individual standardized sheet already exists. It can naturally be envisaged that it will be transmitted at the same time as the credit offer; In the meantime, its issue is already provided for in Article L. 313-10 of the Consumer Code. Since your amendment is satisfied, I request that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u25	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u26	The same opinion as the rapporteur for the same reasons. This amendment does not seem useful to the extent that the existing legislative provisions satisfy it. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u27	Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u28	You are right about the pre-contractual information: the article in the Consumer Code you mentioned, the rapporteur, concerns the estimate. My amendment concerns the elements of the contract. I agree to withdraw it, but I would like us to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u29	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u30	As this amendment was linked to the adoption of my Amendment No 6 to Article 1, I will withdraw it, as will Amendment No 8 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u31	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 28, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u32	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the respective supervisory and sanctioning powers of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority (ACPR) and the agents of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) in order to ensure compliance with the new information obligations provided for in Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u33	I call Mr Damien Adam to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u34	It aims to clarify the obligations of insurers with regard to transparency of information relating to the right to terminate. To ensure that this does not result in too much financial or organisational constraints, it is envisaged that the insured person may be informed electronically, by e-mail or in his or her customer area of the possibility of changing his or her borrower's insurance at any time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u35	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u36	Very favourable opinion: it is crucial that the information of the insured is effective. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the group LaREM]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr.Adam for his strong support for this bill and for the consistency he has shown – remember that during the discussion of Bill ASAP, he had tabled an amendment similar to mine regarding the infra-annual termination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u37	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u38	Favourable opinion: This amendment makes it possible to reconcile good information to the insured person and to take account of the management costs incurred by distributors and insurance organisations by not requiring them to send an annual statement to each insured person. And I will also greet Mr Adam's constancy on these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u39	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u40	The purpose of this amendment is to delete the article providing for the inclusion in Article L. 313-8 of the Consumer Code of an obligation to display the cost of insurance over eight years. The Government supports the principle that the insured should be better informed about the pricing of premiums by indicating the cumulative amounts of premiums over eight years in order to illustrate the mechanism for the operation of the insurance contract, in accordance with a recommendation of the CCSF. However, it considers that this provision falls more within the scope of the regulation than the law. It could be included in the standardized information sheet referred to in Article L. 313-10 of the Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u42	It did not consider this amendment, which was the result of one of my amendments adopted in committee and which is intended to delete Rule 3a. In view of the points just made by the Minister-in-Office, I am personally in favour of this deletion. However, I stress the need to inform the insured about the cost of insurance over eight years, as this is an interesting data to make comparisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u43	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u44	This amendment by our colleague Michel Lauzzana aims to frame the AERAS convention – "to ensure and borrow with an aggravated risk of health". The so-called third-level premium capping scheme for AERAS has been extended without justification to the reference grid, which covers only amounts borrowed below EUR 320000. It is important to redefine the framework. In addition, it is proposed to reduce from 10 to 5 years the time limit for access to the right to be forgotten in respect of borrower insurance for persons with cancer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u45	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u46	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice. Article 7 lays down the basis for the consultation to be undertaken on the AERAS Convention. First of all, it is a question of how we can reduce the deadline for the implementation of the right to be forgotten. Some argue that it would be necessary to increase from 10 to 5 years for persons over 21 years of age, knowing that for persons under 21 years of age, the deadline is five years. The aim is then to extend the system, which is now limited to cancers, to other diseases. Finally, it is a matter of removing the ceiling of EUR 320000, which can be problematic for borrowers, particularly in areas of high real estate tensions. Article 7 calls on all stakeholders – insurers, bankers, health professionals, consumer associations, associations of sick people – to work on these issues within a limited time-frame as it is urgent to move forward on the three points I have just mentioned. Rather than imposing solutions in an authoritarian manner, we favour consultation by expressing the hope that it will lead to a result that will meet the expectations of the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u47	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u48	This is an important subject and you will allow me, Mr. President, to take time to set out the Government's position. The right to be forgotten is a real advance in the cancer plan, since it has made it easier to access borrower insurance and therefore credit for people with cancer. In addition, the AERAS Convention has considerably improved access to borrower insurance for all persons with an aggravated health risk, including those with cancer. We amended the convention so that young people between the ages of 18 and 21 no longer have to report their cancer to insurers after five years after treatment has been completed. This has led to significant progress on the basis of a close dialogue between all actors, including patient associations, representatives of the banking, financial and insurance professions and the State, and progress has been made in gaining access to loans for people at increased risk of health. The operation and balance of this agreement is based on the prior determination, through dialogue, of the scope of its application – thresholds, guarantees, reference grid – so that insurers can cover the risks by mutualising them. Progress in this Convention is also based on scientific evidence that confirms the progress of medicine and therapeutic processes. It is therefore within the Convention that questions relating to the development of the right to be forgotten and the manner in which the reference scale is to be applied must be asked. Progress has already been made and the actors must be trusted. Article 7 allows them to regain their hands, to relaunch discussions in this forum and to identify the progress that can be made quickly in order to strengthen the right to be forgotten and to improve the access of beneficiaries to the scheme. For all these reasons, the Government is opposed to this amendment and to those that will follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u49	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u50	The purpose of this article is commendable. However, we are not meeting in this Chamber to ask questions or to rely on consultation; It is up to us to formalize answers, especially with regard to the right to be forgotten. Let's just say: people with chronic pathologies or cancer are discriminated against in accessing borrower insurance or even credit. Most often, what prevails is an invisibilization of their lives, of their pathology, of the trials they have gone through because they know that they will find themselves exposed to overprime and overcontributions. The AERAS Convention is certainly a step forward, but I think it is up to us to go beyond what Article 7 proposes and to take decisions here. In particular, the ceiling of EUR 320000 should be abolished and the time limit for access to the right to be forgotten should be reduced to five years. I dare even tell you that we could rely on the practices of the market players. Take the case of Crédit Mutuel, which removed the health questionnaires for access to borrower insurance. It is a question of allowing all French and French people, regardless of their state of health, to build their lives if they consider that this must go through a real estate project. I therefore call on you to vote on Amendment No 26 and to take steps to go further than Article 7 provides.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u51	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u52	Madam rapporteur, Mr President, I would like to point out that we need to focus on consultation rather than on the hard mechanisms enshrined in the law, and if I were malicious, I would remind you that this is exactly what I was saying about Article 1, namely that in an ad hoc body, the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, it was possible to find, through consultation, arrangements for borrower insurance rather than through the law. As Amendment No 26 is not mine but Mr Lauzzana's, I will not withdraw it. But, basically, I agree with you: soft law is often preferable to hard law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u53	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u54	[[Applause on several benches in the Action ens group]] If I were malicious, honourable Members, I would reply that in order to avoid the discrimination which makes it very difficult for the sick to obtain borrower insurance, the possibility of an infra-annual termination will enable them to compete and thus achieve savings with identical guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u55	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u56	Without wanting to, Mr. Labaronne, you gave me a pole: I had not had time to answer you about the CCSF and therefore to show the coherence that is ours. Indeed, with regard to the point you referred to in Article 1, the Minister of the Economy had mandated this committee: its members failed to reach agreement on an opinion, which is, moreover, a possible and respectable outcome of any consultation. The same applies to Article 7. Contrary to what you said, the CCSF was indeed consulted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u57	I have before me three amendments, Nos 5, 4 and 21, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 4 and 21 are identical. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 5 and 4, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u58	Both aim to set five years instead of ten as the time limit for access to the right to be forgotten in the case of borrower insurance, for those with cancer in the first amendment, and for those with chronic disease but whose treatment tends to improve the prognosis. Deputy Minister, you have delivered an opinion against Mr Lauzzana's amendment, No. 26. At the question-and-answer session held in the Government on 19 October, the Minister of Health reminded Ms. Six that the Government had made a specific commitment four years ago to reduce the time limit to five years, in any case for people with cancer: these amendments, which have no other purpose, could provide you with an opportunity to honour that commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u59	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u60	They are due to Valérie Six, who is leading this fight with great ardour and conviction. I will give him the same answer as before, which I had already given in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where this proposal was defended by Thierry Benoit. It is important that we move forward on these issues, but we need medical data that we do not have on our scale. That is why Article 7 provides that the forum for consultation and dialogue will be convened very quickly – within three months of the promulgation of this text – and that concrete proposals will have to be made. You will not have escaped that in the absence of agreement, the subject matter would be transferred to the regulatory authority: therefore, even if the members of the proceeding fail to find common ground, I have no doubt that significant progress will be made after the enactment of the text, the whole being to adopt it. I call for the amendments to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u62	Same opinion, but I do not want to leave unanswered what Mr Naegelen said. Of course, these are concerns that we share; In fact, for the past five years, we have advanced the right to be forgotten, particularly in the area of paediatric cancers and for the 18-21 year-olds. For this, we have always followed the same method: to assess the risks, to dialogue, to make sure to reduce the time to five years while waiting less, as science, medicine go fast. We have made good progress since the beginning of the quinquennium, which I would remind you is not yet completed. This method must therefore be retained in order to continue in this direction, to which we are collectively resolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u63	Amendment No 4, identical to point 21, will be put to the vote at the same time. I call Mr Daniel Labaronne to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u64	It is due to Laurence Vanceunebrock and aims to go further than article 7, paragraph 2, by reducing to five years, for adults cured of cancer, the waiting period before the right to forget can play. On the other hand, if the President allows it, I would add a clarification: I had indicated, without any controversial intention, that the rapporteur might not have consulted the President of the CCSF. As for the fact that Bruno Le Maire's cabinet had mandated this same committee to study the issue of borrower insurance, I do not know it all the more since I participated in its work: I happen to represent the National Assembly in the CCSF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u66	Once again, I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u67	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur's amendment No 29 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u68	I call Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u69	[[Ms. Valeria Faure-Muntian applauds]] This amendment is simply a wink: some network recently surfing the false promise to give up health questionnaires, we could consider abolishing them for all appropriations which do not exceed EUR 160000. These questionnaires are used by many of our fellow citizens as an overprime, as an increase in the price of their credit, often for reasons of detail. There is an urgent need to address this, and even to put an end to it altogether.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u71	I understand the wink, and the question actually arises. However, again, I refer to the wording of Article 7: these subjects can and should be mentioned in the AERAS Convention. The adoption of such an amendment would not be neutral; all partners, including insurers and banks engaged in insurance activities, must contribute to a concerted effort to assess the risks involved in your proposal. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u73	The same opinion, although I understand both the appeal and the wink of the honourable Member: for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur, the consequences of the amendment should be assessed in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u74	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u75	Madam rapporteur, Minister Delegate, I will of course withdraw this amendment. However, I stress the need to tackle the problem: in recent weeks I have been very solicited by banker friends whom I had not heard of in a long time. It is time for everyone to take responsibility and stop abuses in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u76	I shall take up the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u77	I call Mr Daniel Labaronne to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u78	Again, this is an amendment due to Laurence Vanceunebrock. It aims to reverse the burden of proof of over-risk justifying over-prime or warranty exclusions. This burden is currently borne by patient associations, which are struggling to finance studies with very high costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u80	Again, I understand the meaning of the amendment, but I would like to remain with the wording of Article 7. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u81	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u82	It is intended that, within two years of the enactment of this text, its implementation will be the subject of a report submitted by the CCSF to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u83	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u84	Mr Labaronne had already tabled this amendment when the text was discussed in committee; While I assured him that I was entirely in favour of the principle, I had reported to him a tiny editorial anomaly. The deadline should also be amended, since the scheme concerned would not enter into force until one year after the enactment of the future law. These two points have been corrected: therefore, favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u86	The amendment proposes that, within two years of the enactment of the text, the CCSF should submit a report to Parliament on its implementation. This is a good step: it goes in the right direction and responds to what we have been saying since the beginning of the discussion of the articles about the need for cooperation and a sort of continuous assessment. Without going back to the government's opposition to the previous amendments that you have supported, Mr Labaronne, I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u87	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u88	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 61 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u89	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I would like to thank the Members for having adopted this text, which concerns both consumer rights, simplification and purchasing power. Its application will not cost the State a euro; On the other hand, for the consumer, I repeat, it will be a good step forward. Once again, thank you all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u91	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on effective cross-border hospital cooperation (point 4563).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u92	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Herth spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u93	This motion for a resolution, which I have the honour to support with Olivier Becht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is an excellent example of our collective concerns. We have constantly recalled this: health, and in particular the hospital system, are vital elements for our society that must be supported, defended and strengthened. Similarly, the European idea and its implementation in cross-border cooperation are ideals deeply rooted in the values defended by our group. The spirit of this motion for a resolution is first and foremost based on the return to experience of the health crisis that we are experiencing. Our hospital system has held and is still holding the shock thanks to the exceptional mobilisation of all health workers, but also to European solidarity: this has enabled us, at the height of tension, to transfer patients to the hospitals of our European neighbours or to have quality vaccines for all. However, in the most dramatic period, at the beginning of 2020, it was the feelings of confusion and improvisation that dominated. Examples of solidarity between border hospitals owe much of their success to the perseverance of staff and elected officials, who have sometimes ignored administrative rules and language barriers in an emergency. However, the idea of hospital cooperation is not new: for more than 20 years, milestones have been laid both at European and national level. Article 168 of the Lisbon Treaty thus defines powers in the field of health and encourages cross-border cooperation. Directive 2011/24/EU specifies the rights of patients in cross-border healthcare. At the national level, cross-border health cooperation is also a reality. It is based on the regional care organisation schemes (SROS) of 2011, which are in line with the bilateral framework agreements that France has concluded with its neighbours. On my way to Kehl, Germany, to discuss with the teams of the TRISAN project – a trinational competence centre for your health projects – I was able to measure the concrete progress, but also the road ahead. Health cooperation between France and Belgium – specifically between the Hauts-de-France and Wallonia – is cited as the most successful example of this partnership advocated by Europe. There is complete transparency in the care of patients, including reimbursements: French Vitale cards are accepted in Belgium, and vice versa. The inter-hospital partnership in cardiology between the hospitals of Forbach, in northern Lorraine, and Völklingen is also welcomed; Mr Christophe Arend told me this morning that this cooperation could be extended and tightened. There is also cooperation between Mulhouse and Colmar hospitals and Bad Krozingen hospitals on pathologies related to cardiac arrhythmia. Finally, the maternity ward of Wissembourg, in the north of Alsace, welcomes the future mothers of the Landau region. But much remains to be done, both with our German neighbours and with our Swiss neighbours, for example to clarify the health status of the Basel-Mulhouse EuroAirport. It is not forbidden to work also towards our southern neighbours; In this regard, the original experience is under way with Cerdagne Hospital, which welcomes patients, French or Catalan, residing on both sides of the border. While there are still administrative obstacles to be overcome, I am pleased that Bill 3DS, which we will be considering before Christmas, shows in section 57 the desire to strengthen the health cooperation applicable in border regions within the framework of the SROS. This progress will also be made in the ultramarine communities: bravo! Where it is effective, this work in common for the benefit of people who are most often separated only by a line on the map rests first on the goodwill of men and women who are given the opportunity to sit around a table to combine their talents. However, let us not neglect obstacles, whether they are linguistic or related to differences in culture or in medical and administrative practices between health-care and hospital communities trained in separate settings. While the routine calls for immobilism, the genesis of a cross-border project is always the result of an out-of-standard overtaking and human commitment. But, we believe, the cause is right and deserves to be addressed. To that end, we need to define unifying objectives. For example, cooperation on rare diseases, which are only taken care of by a few hospitals – as in Strasbourg – could benefit a basin of life beyond national borders. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the group LaREM]] The purpose of this motion for a resolution is therefore to consolidate the cooperation that is already effective, to open up new projects and to encourage the Government to mobilize all the levers at its disposal. I am confident that under these efforts we will be better prepared to face together the health crises of the future. By adopting this resolution, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly will give its solemn support to a beautiful mission and to those who will put their talents at its service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u94	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u95	The health crisis that we are going through has shown us that in an increasingly globalized world, the notion of a border, even if it is essential, has to evolve. What's certain is that the virus has no borders. Countries that have wanted to adopt so-called "zero covid" strategies have not been able to follow them over time, even though it must be recognized that they often have better figures than ours. After 70 years of European integration, we can be proud of the systems of solidarity between hospitals in different countries. They prove that our hospital administration has been able to adapt to the reality of the territories: the living areas of the inhabitants of the cross-border areas are obviously not cut in half by an administrative limit. Above all, they prove that European construction is not limited to cold and technocratic measures. Europe is also a solidarity between States and between peoples. Today I would like to express our gratitude to our German, Belgian and Swiss friends, to name but a few, who welcomed French patients at the height of the crisis. At a time when some of our neighbours are experiencing epidemic outbreaks that put their hospital system in trouble, it would be the honour of our country to be able to relieve them. I therefore believe that there is a need to strengthen cooperation between medical establishments in areas close to borders, and I thank you, colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, for allowing us to discuss this issue today. The members of the IDU and independent group share the observation that you made in the explanatory memorandum: it may seem aberrant to see one of our fellow citizens travelling 45 minutes to a consultation which he could have found 15 minutes across the border. There are, of course, many obstacles, starting with the language barrier. However, let us be aware that border areas are becoming increasingly interconnected. It is essential that administrative structures be able to keep pace and adapt to the growth of trade. It also seems essential to communicate better on the cooperation that already exists: they are often little known to our fellow citizens, while they could greatly facilitate their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, you would like the Government to list all the initiatives that are being taken in the field of cross-border cooperation, particularly when they are decided by the local authorities. If this idea is to be deepened, I believe that we should also be inspired by what is already provided for in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle linking France and Germany, in this case the Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation. The generalization of such structures at our borders would allow us to take into account the problems of our cross-border citizens, particularly in the field of health, and to easily trace local initiatives. These structures could also be inspired by each other and thus improve their practices. As for the harmonisation of patients' rights in border areas, this is one of the shortcomings of European Union law. It is relatively comprehensive with regard to the movement of workers and the rights accorded to them, particularly in the area of social security, but there are still many gaps in the treatment of persons in a country different from their country of residence. While there is now a European health insurance card that can be used for travel within the European area, perhaps one day we could consider a card that gives access to wider rights. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I groups and Action ens. – Mrs Hélène Zannier and Mr Ian Boucard also applaud]] Recent events and the cooperation they have brought about may prompt the Commission and the Member States to revise the Directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, in particular with regard to prior authorisations or repayment conditions. The subject is broad and complex, but it was important to mention this subject which was highlighted at the height of the health crisis. Members of the IDU and independent group will therefore support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u96	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u97	Today we are considering a motion for a resolution from the Group of the European People's Party to act together to promote effective cross-border hospital cooperation. The health crisis has pointed to the wounds of our public health system. It has revealed its impoverishment, the lack of healthcare staff and the inadequacy of our hospital capacity, especially in terms of beds, to take care of patients with covid in its serious forms. At the height of the crisis, the Government was forced to seek assistance from cross-border countries by organizing the transfer of patients to German, Swiss or Belgian hospitals, owing to the lack of sufficient beds to absorb patients who were entering the resuscitation services. How did we get there when, at the dawn of the 2000s, our health care system was considered the best in the world by the World Health Organization (WHO)? This is the question that we believe should be asked before we think about horizontal equalisation measures at European level in hospital matters. The epidemic has only revealed the decommissioning of our country in terms of health. Today, France ranks eleventh in international studies. This demotion owes much to neoliberal policies over the last twenty years, calling for the reduction of public and social spending – often with the blessing of the European Union's bodies. No one can deny that the hospital has been one of the main areas of experimentation in austerity and privatization policies. I am thinking of the introduction of activity pricing, which has suffocated the establishments financially by obliging them to produce ever more care in order to keep afloat; I am also thinking of reducing health spending, which has been organised every year for more than 20 years. I am thinking of the closures of community hospitals and maternity hospitals: twenty-five institutions were removed from the map in 2020 according to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES). Finally, I am thinking of the implementation of the ambulatory turn, which has resulted in cascading removals of hospital beds: 27000 beds closed since 2013, 13300 since 2017 and 5700 just for the year 2020. The Segur of Health, granted by the Government under pressure from caregivers and their representatives, has not changed anything. Despite staff salary increases, despite investment support and the resumption of hospital debt, our public health system appears to be even more fragile today than before the outbreak. In its opinion of 5 October, the Scientific Council thus states that there is a large percentage of closed beds in hospitals, at around 20%, despite the already large and growing use of overtime and temporary work. I see it in my department where, in the hospital of Aulnay-sous-Bois alone, 100 acute care beds out of 400 remain closed. Too late, insufficient and incomplete, Ségur failed to put an end to the hospital malaise that had been spreading for many years. These findings cannot be ignored when considering strengthening hospital co-operation between European countries, because the solution of promoting solidarity between Member States, without pre-empting the weakening of our care system, looks like a mistake. Health policy is the responsibility of States and it is their responsibility to ensure equal access to care for all their citizens, whether they are bordering or not. This is also the meaning of the bill that my group will be defending in a week's time in this House, which includes the guarantee that everyone will be able to access a health facility providing the public hospital service in less than 30 minutes. Since the beginning of the legislature, our group has been defending a new ambition for the public hospital through a massive investment to hire staff, up to the needs, and restore our capacity in terms of beds. Conversely, your text is similar to a call to manage the shortage of hospital capacity after two years of epidemic. As this cannot be done, our group will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u98	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u99	"The creation of a Europe of health must become our priority. Our will is to equip Europe with very concrete health skills. This is what the President of the Republic said on 18 May 2020 at a joint press conference with the German Chancellor. By March 2020, Europe had become the epicentre of the epidemic. Its critics then criticized its impotence in the face of the health threat and the lack of mechanisms to harmonise the response of States at Community level. This pandemic has certainly hit cross-border cooperation hard. In my Mosellan territory, the period of closure of the borders was a brake, delaying the passage of emergency vehicles and sometimes forcing patients with covid to be transferred by helicopter; But it also highlighted ingenuity, inventiveness and solidarity among neighbouring peoples. It revealed the need for a Europe of health. Within the cross-border living pools that I came from, the actors on the ground have redoubled their efforts and creativity to deal with the virus and save lives. For example, inter-hospital cooperation between Saarland and Moselle has resulted in the transfer of patients to hospitals in Völklingen or Sarrebruck, close to the border. German doctors came to support their Mosellan counterparts, and the opposite was also true. In all, thanks to cooperative work between the authorities, the transfer of nearly 200 patients with covid could be organised from the hospitals in Alsace and Lorraine to those in Germany, Switzerland or Luxembourg. One can also mention the mutual assistance pact signed in November 2020 by the Greater East Regional Council and the neighbouring Länder. I would like to welcome these initiatives and to thank once again the partners who have helped us to overcome this crisis. More generally, I would like to point out that many cooperations already exist, sometimes informally – for example, as I have seen, between the firefighters of Boulay in Moselle and their German colleagues and neighbours. We must now go much further. We need to simplify the steps necessary to create partnerships between health institutions in neighbouring countries, by establishing and developing a framework for cross-border health cooperation, or by harmonising certain rights of patients in these areas of life. That is the whole point of this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, as a border between Germany and Luxembourg, I am convinced of the importance of developing and deepening cross-border health cooperation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our colleagues Herth and Becht for putting this important issue on the agenda. This motion for a resolution must be adopted, first of all because it calls for an assessment of existing cross-border partnerships and agreements, a prerequisite for the development of a genuine European health strategy. It is also part of the philosophy of harmonising care systems advocated by European texts, in particular the European Health Programme adopted in November 2020, which will finance projects designed to increase cross-border cooperation. In addition, it is in keeping with our desire to simplify administrative procedures, which has already begun with the law of 26 April 2021 aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification. Finally, it responds to a geographical logic, as well as a long-standing demand from the inhabitants of the border territories. Today, in a context of medical desertification, many patients in emergency situations are closer to the health infrastructure of the neighbouring country than to those of their territory. For obvious reasons, it would be advisable to speed up and harmonise these health exchanges within the same basin of life. These exchanges take place on both sides of the border, as all European countries may suffer from a shortage of doctors. As Isaac Newton said, we are building "too many walls and not enough bridges. The adoption of this resolution will be a first stone in the construction of a bridge that I hope will one day be wider and more robust. Today we are talking about cross-border cooperation in the field of health: I hope that other projects will follow, in the fields of education, mobility, tax harmonisation, and, why not, a real reflection on the status of cross-border workers, who suffer from regulatory disparities between countries. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Agir ens group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you today to build a bridge by voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u100	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u101	The motion for a resolution that we are going to consider today calls on the Government to embark on a new phase of cross-border hospital cooperation. The crisis linked to the covid-19 pandemic has indeed highlighted the difficulties of our health system, particularly with regard to our capacities – rapidly saturated – to receive and treat in emergency and resuscitation services. In fact, the European Union has encouraged the creation of many ties with our neighbours and has helped to relieve our hospitals at the height of the first epidemic wave, but it is above all the good relations between the countries that have made these transfers possible. Switzerland was of great help during this crisis: it welcomed French patients in resuscitation, along with other neighbouring countries such as Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. Despite these links and exchanges, such cooperation has sometimes been hampered, hampered by numerous obstacles, be they legislative, diplomatic or administrative, and even when the situation was extremely urgent. Some patient transfers to neighbouring countries have finally been organised largely through good understanding between neighbours, thanks to personal initiatives and the spirit of solidarity of the various actors. These transfers of dozens of patients proved to be a real breath of oxygen for our health care system, which was on the verge of implosion at a time when a patient-to-patient sorting was being mentioned. They highlighted the interest and challenges of cross-border cooperation, both in times of crisis and in normal times. They also stress the ability of our countries to help each other when the situation so requires. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is therefore to question the possibility of further and closer cooperation between the different hospital systems. Four requests were made to the Government: to identify all existing partnerships, approaches and other cross-border agreements in the field of health; simplify the steps necessary for the creation of new partnerships; informing users of existing possibilities; work towards the harmonisation of the law of patients in cross-border areas. You explain to us that there are real obstacles to cross-border cooperation, both legislative and administrative, and we are all aware of this. To solve these problems, you are submitting proposals that are unfortunately not in reality. What really emerges from your proposals is rather the willingness to inform people that cross-border health cooperation exists, while it would be in the interests of it to function fully. I would like to go further in this debate, which is not at all annoyed to the inhabitants of border departments such as mine. Will health cooperation as you envisage it allow a French patient to receive daily and regular care in a Swiss, German, Belgian, Spanish or Italian healthcare professional? In other words, can a resident of Delle, in the territory of Belfort, receive free treatment from a doctor in Porrentruy, Switzerland, without prior agreement or authorisation? But is this the purpose of your approach – in which case it seems extremely relevant to me – or is it simply a question of helping each other during an important crisis as we have been able to go through, which is already enormous? Can cross-border health cooperation as you envisage it solve the problem of medical deserts in our departments, where some patients are obliged to travel more than 50 kilometres to go to a French dentist when they could benefit from this care on the other side of the border? I believe it is necessary to provide answers to these questions of daily life through real proposals – although the real will of your resolution is to deepen and strengthen cross-border health cooperation, as I hope. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, is your willingness to communicate or to do so? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the Agir ens group]] In any event, I see no reason to oppose this declaration of good intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u102	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u103	Necessity is the word that characterizes this motion for a resolution: the need to strengthen and increase cross-border hospital cooperation. The health crisis has shown us once again, viruses are challenges that do not know borders. Ladies and gentlemen, you are doing a useful job in proposing this resolution. By making it very practical to reduce congestion in hospital services and to relieve medical staff at the height of the crisis, cross-border hospital cooperation has saved lives. Beyond friendship among countries, cooperation is an imperative to meet the needs of States. There is also a need for wider cooperation, since health has been a shared responsibility between the Member States of the European Union since Article 168 of the Treaty of Lisbon. This shared competence would benefit from further development and development. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union regularly recalls that medical and hospital care is subject to the principle of free movement. This makes the subject particularly glamorous. The legal need to cooperate more fully and in greater depth, but also, I mentioned in the preamble, a necessity in relation to health issues that inevitably go beyond the national framework. This goes beyond the scope of treaty obligations; It also goes beyond short-term situations, however terrible they may be. It is our interest, that of our country, of our fellow citizens; It's also our honor. Our citizens, living in border areas, but others too, can expect concrete progress in this area. We call for these advances, because they will ultimately be useful to as many people as possible. Borders, a theme so dear to some of our colleagues, are as many spaces defined to define and defend as much as to exchange and offer. In this respect, the many bilateral partnerships we have signed with Germany, Belgium and Spain make France the first beneficiary of the health advances. Because we must not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation requires solidarity. It is in this sense that we come to support our neighbours when necessary. Last example, just a few days ago, Germany sought help from its neighbours to alleviate its hospital system. Solidarity must be enlightened by hope. There are many ways and means to strengthen and increase this cross-border hospital cooperation at European level, and we must mobilise them. In this case, the motion for a resolution before us opens up some interesting avenues for further development: the Government is working to ensure that we systematize these practices, which are also used by teams and systems to cooperate. The goal is simple: to be beneficial to all countries. The commitment of the President of the Republic to bring this matter to the heart of Community bodies is to be welcomed. It should be noted that these same bodies will address issues relating to hospital cooperation between member countries. At the dawn of the French presidency of the European Union, I know that the sponsors of this resolution will be committed to making progress on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] In any event, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, for whom European values are essential, will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution aimed at making cooperation between the countries of our common area more efficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u104	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u105	We all have in mind the image of these patients evacuated to other countries, at the height of the health crisis, sometimes in a critical state, to allow them to be treated, but also to try to reduce the overload of our hospitals and to relieve a little of the health workers. At the height of the crisis, almost 150 patients were evacuated to neighbouring countries – Germany, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Belgium. These evacuations are the honour of these countries and European caregivers. They remind us of the strength of Hippocrates' oath, which requires treatment, regardless of nationality, but also the possibility of effective European cooperation in such essential areas as health. Of course, we would have preferred that these transfers were not necessary, because they are also a reminder of the inadequacy of our resources in resuscitation and of the weakening of the French public hospital, whereas Germany undoubtedly has a better offer of critical care than ours. These transfers also give this motion for a resolution an ambivalent character. In view of the urgency and the need to intervene quickly and as closely as possible to patients, evacuations have been carried out outside the legal framework of inter-hospital cooperation, which calls for a reflection on the organisation of European agreements on this subject, with certain guarantees lacking. First, the principle of cross-border cooperation should not lead to a deterioration in the provision of care. This is an indispensable prerequisite for the development of cooperation: it is out of the question that our structures should be removed in order to increase the hospitals of our European partners. Secondly, this cooperation must be for the benefit of patients, on the same level as French care – I am thinking in particular of social security or complementary health care. The cross-border development of the hospital should not cost patients an extra EUR 1. Finally, it is essential that this cooperation be accompanied materially by the allocation of adequate resources to regional health agencies and health institutions – we know the burden that has been borne by them at the height of the crisis and which is expected to continue for a long time to come. Clearly, every effort must be made to ensure that this cooperation brings benefits to patients and caregivers, without disrupting structures on both sides of the border. [[Applause on several benches in the Action ens group]] These clarifications should have been included in the motion for a resolution so that the principle of cooperation could never be distorted. Nevertheless, we are satisfied with the desire to develop cross-border cooperation; That is why we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u106	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u107	The motion for a resolution that we are considering is the result of a lie – a lie stowed to an old truth, gradually becoming a myth. Until March 2020, our governments and successive health ministers, from Roselyne Bachelot to Olivier Véran and Agnès Buzyn, were bragging by assuring the French that they had the best health care system in the world. This gold medal was to justify the amount of our health spending and our status as the world's largest tax power. The French legitimately thought that if they paid so many taxes, it had to be for something! The health crisis swept away government propaganda like a straw fetus and revealed the magnitude of the disaster: hospitals at the edge of the break-up in a few weeks, caregivers sent to the front without protection, doctors forced to use garbage bags to make overblouses, stocks of ghost masks. Because of the lack of cost-effectiveness policies that have made health a market and accounting data, we have had to address a conflict without weapons or ammunition. In the storm, the state organized patient transfers between regions, thus revealing the territories weakened by years of health damage. Thus, at the height of the crisis, patients were evacuated to our European neighbours, including Germany, Belgium or Luxembourg, but also Switzerland. While these emergency transfers represented a lifeline for dozens of French people who were seriously affected by the epidemic, this reality, however, was evidence of a worrying downgrading and hallucinating fragility in our once strong, proud and self-reliant country. The authors of this motion for a resolution do not dislike the fact that the issue of health does not go beyond the national framework. Health is the safety of the French. And the security of the French is the responsibility of the sovereign and regal state. As in the economic, diplomatic and military fields, the Europeanists, worshippers of federalism, are using each of our current weaknesses to call for more Europe, even more Europe, more Europe! Yet Europe has demonstrated throughout the pandemic its chronic inability to protect European peoples. His late action was emulated by repeated fiascoes, whether on mask orders, tests or, finally, vaccines. It is therefore urgent, instead of discussing the mutualisation of weaknesses and new losses of sovereignty in the process of development, to re-arm the State, to save the public hospital, to improve the professions of care, to invest massively in research or to combat medical deserts in practice. The idea is not to define a common health policy with Lithuania or Finland, but to allow the inhabitants of Pas-de-Calais or Creuse to enjoy the same right to health. More than ever, we need good resolutions – but national resolutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u108	The general discussion is closed. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I should like to inform you that on the motion for a resolution, I have before me a request for a public vote in the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u109	The health crisis has shown that the European level is the appropriate scale to prevent and respond to health threats, restore European autonomy on health products and affirm the influence of the European Union through an ambitious global health strategy. I cannot fail to welcome the very fine solidarity that prevailed during the first wave of the epidemic, proof that in the face of the threat, neighbouring countries have been able to help each other and act in good intelligence, in the interests of patients, regardless of their nationality. The reception in a hospital in Stuttgart or Ulm of patients from eastern France illustrates that cross-border cooperation is not only a great idea: it is a reality and a very indispensable tool. Beyond these very strong images, the Union has been able to mobilise all available instruments by structuring a supply policy, including vaccines and personal protective equipment (PPE), covering its needs without prejudice to external markets, by inventing interoperable devices such as the health pass and, last but not least, by embodying, with the few thousand successful health evacuations between Member States, the spirit of solidarity that we could not have imagined in normal times. The achievements of the last 18 months in the field of health have been decisive for the concrete benefit of European citizens. The European Union has been able, in the midst of a crisis, to prove its responsiveness, added value and solidarity in the management of the pandemic, in connection with the European Parliament, whose activity has continued despite the urgency. This motion for a resolution on effective cross-border hospital cooperation, tabled by Antoine Herth on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, nevertheless points out that all the potential has not yet been mobilized, despite a European framework defined on the basis of Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the 2011 Patient Rights Directive and the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems. In this it sends an important message to which we fully adhere. I know how important this matter is to you as an elected member of a cross-border territory. While the number of patients using cross-border care under these provisions is still difficult to assess, some data suggest that cross-border health care is on the rise. I note that, beyond the above-mentioned body of texts, many bilateral cooperation projects have been established between the Member States of the European Union. France takes its full part in this movement, thanks to agreements signed with Germany, Belgium, Spain, Luxembourg and, outside the European Union, with Switzerland. Let me mention the cross-border hospital Puigcerdà de Cerdagne, which I know well, which irrigates the entire plateau on both sides of the border and which allows us to change habits, especially in the field of medicine and social affairs. It is a very important opportunity to serve as many of our citizens as possible. However, I am convinced that we can do better by optimising the momentum created by the health crisis. I see two main advantages: cross-border regions have an under-optimised potential in terms of offering care, which would allow economies of scale to be achieved in the service of patients; They are also often life pools where the skills of healthcare workers would benefit from being better managed to prevent imbalances such as the exodus of staff where salaries are more attractive – I cannot help but think of the territory of Haute-Savoie which is experiencing this phenomenon on a daily basis. [[Applause on a few benches of the Action ens group]] Within the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union, on 18 January France will organise a ministerial conference on the resilience of the Union's health systems for European cooperation. This high-level conference will provide an opportunity to discuss the impact of the crisis on health systems and to identify new instruments for cooperation, including cross-border cooperation, to be deployed to develop it. One of the objectives of this conference is to create an instrument of cooperation, in particular to promote and enhance cross-border cooperation and to increase the resilience of healthcare institutions at European level. This new instrument will allow for greater cooperation between cross-border hospitals so that they can work together, exchange good practices without competition, in full transparency and with respect for the right of the patient and, I dare also suggest, beyond the walls of the hospital, for all the medico-social dimensions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This initiative that the Government will take during the French Presidency of the European Union will help to give new impetus to cooperation at the European level, particularly at the cross-border level. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always been a convinced European and I can tell you, after these two years of health crisis, that I am more European than ever. It is the right scale, it is the strength that is needed and it is a way to give Europe concrete perspectives, which speak to people. Europe needs it; We all need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u110	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u111	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 46 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u112	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u113	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u114	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to recognize, prevent and combat the risk of administrative exhaustion of the French (No. 4569).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u115	Mrs Valérie Petit spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u116	One Frenchman out of four judges his relationship with the administration too complex, and one in five says he faces administrative difficulties on a daily basis. Recovery of a grey card, liquidation of retirement, attachment of children to social security, updating of a file with a departmental house of disabled people (MDPH), request for the re-manufacture of the Vitale card or renewal of the identity card, application file of the RSA: these are some of the steps that create, in everyday life, the most stress among our fellow citizens – a stress caused by the complexity of administrative procedures, but also by the difficulty of obtaining support and the impossibility of dealing with a single contact person. These French people, we know them well, because if there is one area in which they still rely on us, it is this: as elected officials, we receive them every week in our parliamentary permanences, and they regularly call on us to help us save them from labyrinthic relations with a French administration that stresses and exhausts them, sometimes to the point of making them sick. Often, their problem lies in a single unrelenting reason: they do not fit into the areas provided for by the administration. Their fault is to have life paths that resemble life itself, with personal ups and downs, changes, originalities in professional or marital status, bifurcations or accidents of life. But the fault is also due to administrative complexity and the dematerialization of the procedures which place almost existential anxiety on many of our fellow citizens: that of checking the wrong box, or, worse, of not checking any. A century ago, Max Weber, the first thinker of modern bureaucracy, warned us about the consequences of this historic process of rationalizing modern societies, with bureaucratization as its avatar. He illustrated his point with a striking image, not of a box, but of a steel cage, a symbol of the trap felt by individuals paralyzed by a dehumanized bureaucratic system, based on calculation and control. This is the whole paradox of the French administration: by wanting to administer in an exhaustive way – not to say compulsive – the life of the French, it produces ever more rules, procedures and regulations aimed at mastering and standardizing the complexity of our lives; Unfortunately, it often only succeeds in producing ever more complications, exclusions and even suffering. The motion for a resolution that I submit to you aims to put a word on these daily ills of our fellow citizens, and to include it in the dictionary of public action: this new word is that of burn-out, of administrative exhaustion of the French. By this term, we refer to all the physical and psychological reactions following chronic administrative stress, mainly arising from three risk factors related to the relationship between users and administration: the first risk is administrative complexity, which for some people leads to an excessive mental burden; The second risk is the dematerialization of the relationship with the administration, which leads to a feeling of lack of consideration or even of a relationship itself; The third risk is the worsening of stress by the emotional dimension of certain approaches, which gives people the feeling that a vital existential or emotional issue is involved. This definition of administrative exhaustion does not come out of my imagination, but is based on the work carried out by the National Research and Safety Institute for the Prevention of Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases (INRS) on burn-out syndrome. The latter is defined as a consequence of stress at work, of working conditions and relationships often characterized by one or more risk factors such as excessive mental load, weak recognition of personal investment, conflicting expectations or injunctions, lack of clarity as to objectives and means, or a weak possibility of controlling one's own work. To our knowledge, the issue of exhaustion, first identified in the context of labour relations, between employers and employees, has never been mobilized in relation to the relationship between the administration and the users of the public service. Yet we can only be struck by the similarity of the clinical picture in both areas. Therefore, the expression "administrative exhaustion" seems to us to be the most able to describe the ills and, let us say, the prejudice sometimes inflicted by the administration on our fellow citizens. I would like to stress that administrative exhaustion affects both agents and users of the public service: faced with the same complexity, all share the same aspiration to reintroduce simplicity, meaning and humanity into public action. What can we do to remedy this? First of all, we can continue the determined action of the majority aimed at reducing administrative complexity, the first risk factor of exhaustion: the recognition of the right to error, the introduction of the levy at source, the application of the principle "tell us once", the establishment of a single window for the creation of a business, or the numerous provisions of the law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as the ASAP law, are concrete measures that have simplified the daily lives of the French. I welcome our colleague Guillaume Kasbarian's unwavering commitment to this issue. Next, let us recall the actions that have been undertaken to improve the relationship between users and administration – thus mitigating the second risk factor of administrative exhaustion. The establishment by the Government of the Public Services + listening device attests, among other examples, to the commitment of the majority in this area. Beyond that, it is the administrative culture that needs to be changed. In this regard, I welcome the action of the Minister for Transformation and Public Service, who is carrying out a genuine cultural transformation in the administration: it is a question of ending a culture of control and procedure, which has become too costly for individuals as for public expenditure, and of bringing about a culture of result and trust, within a benevolent and "good" administration for both users and agents. Our motion for a resolution is in line with the action already largely undertaken by our majority to modernise public action and service, and to make their effectiveness based on greater simplicity and greater humanity. It contains a triptych of measures to recognize, prevent and combat administrative exhaustion. To recognize this, first of all, we suggest that a multidisciplinary research team be set up under the leadership of the Prime Minister to define administrative exhaustion syndrome. We also propose that the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, the Defender of Rights and the Ministry of Transformation and Public Service jointly launch a forum for debates and exchanges on administrative burn-out, with the close involvement of public officials and citizens. To prevent this, we suggest that the Government ensure that the subject of administrative exhaustion, and more broadly the quality of the relationship between users and public services, is integrated into the teachings of public service schools. The Ministry of Transformation and Public Action could ensure that public managers are made aware of them, in particular through continuing training. We further suggest that the Prime Minister request the Ombudsman to submit and submit to Parliament and the Government a report on the state of the relationship between users and public services, including on administrative exhaustion. Finally, in order to combat administrative exhaustion, we suggest that the Prime Minister ensure that all ministries and their administrations are made aware of the risk to the French and public officials; This issue would be integrated into the transformation roadmap of each department, and would be identified as measurable objectives and actions by each jurisdiction. [[Applause on the benches of the group Agir ens and on a few benches of the group LaREM. – Mrs Nicole Sanquer also applauds]] In 1966 Georges Pompidou, then Prime Minister, exclaimed: "But stop bothering the French! There are too many laws, too many texts, too many regulations in this country! We're dying! Let them live a little and you will see that everything will be better. This declaration, emblematic of the immemorial struggle for the simplification and administrative serenity of our fellow citizens, I hear it all too often today in the mouth of demagogues of circumstance. By putting a word on the evils of our fellow citizens, we want to give the French concrete proof that we hear them, that we consider them and that we act for them – our ability to transform their anger and suffering into benevolent listening and constructive action, that is what distinguishes us from the sorcerer apprentices of populism. It is also by virtue of this concept of democracy and political action that I count on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on our motion for a resolution to recognise administrative exhaustion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u117	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u118	Many children have grown up with, as an idea of administration, the image of Asterix fighting in the house that drives crazy to get a pass. Once they were grown up, they realized that this caricature hardly forced the trait. They note that some administrative demands, if not crazy, are of such complexity that even a minister has acknowledged a phobia towards them. I would therefore like to thank you, Mrs Petit, for proposing that we exchange views on the feeling of too much administration to which our fellow citizens are suffering; It is opportune to study more deeply the exhaustion they feel in the face of a ubiquitous administration on a daily basis, in every action they undertake. So, while I understand the idea that you have to present such a motion for a resolution today, I would nevertheless like to share with you some comments shared with all my colleagues in the IDU and independent group. First of all, I must admit that the state is not intended to be that cold steel cage that you describe in your presentation, in the first place because the state and its administration are also actors that must enable everyone's emancipation through the compulsory and free education offered. The State is also the one that ensures a just redistribution of wealth so that those who have the least can live with dignity. Finally, the State is also the net that provides our citizens with protection from the events of life. I therefore do not think that individual action is more human and full of good feelings than that of a State that can have a fair and proportionate action, and it is on this point that I will insist, because what we must fight against is this very French disease of over-administration. The chairman of our group, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, recently spoke in committee of his abrasion in front of the instructions issued by the national education after the first confinement, which went so far as to explain to the agents how to sweep the corridors. This central administration's willingness to register prevents the personal initiative of agents who are in contact with the field and is found to be a source of ill-being both for these agents and for users. But behind this criticism of the functioning of the administration, we must essentially see a critique of a State far too centralized, far removed from the concerns of the French. Above all, this centralisation stifles the administration and prevents it from adapting to the specificities of the territories and the citizens, which are nevertheless numerous. This love of our central administration for the overproduction of standards is also reflected in the application of European law, and many of us often complain about the overtransposition of European rules. This practice not only complicates the lives of our citizens, but also often places our economic actors in situations of unfair competition against Europeans who apply the rules much more simply. Finally, how to deal with these problems of the administration without mentioning two fights by my colleague Guy Bricout: the abundance of State agencies and the abandonment of public services in rural areas. There are 1200 state agencies in France. The cost is certainly significant, but above all, these agencies are the source of a normative overproduction that is used to justify their existence. While some of them are, of course, vital, they are four times less numerous in Britain or Germany. As for the disappearance of public services in rural areas, it is responsible for a sense of abandonment among some of our fellow citizens, who do not properly master digital tools. Above all, in the face of often general administrative documents, those of our fellow citizens who do not enter the boxes are without contact or are obliged to travel to carry out the simplest steps. All these problems are the elements of the administrative ras-le-bol of the French, which pushes some to exhaustion, as you explain. Thus, if the IDU and independent Members support this motion for a resolution, which aims to gain a better understanding of this administrative exhaustion and to fight against it, we believe that it is above all necessary to act on all the points I have just mentioned: you will see it, the French will already be much better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u119	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u120	This motion for a resolution raises the question of the relations between the French and their administration, which we are portrayed as particularly painful. Words in the register of suffering are used abundantly throughout the text that is proposed to us: anger, stress, exhaustion, depression, burn-out, loss of the feeling of humanity, hardness, absolutely, oppression, confinement, lack of appetite, lack of motivation, desocialization, excessive mental load, moral suffering, anxiety, traumatic shock, anxiety, abuse, psychosocial risks, and I pass – it is a florileg. We have understood this: the authors of this resolution consider that the French' relationship with the administration amounts to immense suffering. Of course, it is not always simple and, as you point out in this text, we Members of Parliament meet every day in our permanence citizens who ask for our help. I do not know what is happening to you, but as far as I am concerned, I observe that it is not so much because they are unable to fill out questionnaires, but rather because they are unable to find housing, because they do not meet the criteria for obtaining such social assistance or benefit, because they need a place in a nursery, because they can no longer make ends meet, because they are afraid of the reform of unemployment benefit or because they cannot have access to a doctor. These are most of the administrative difficulties they face: basic needs that cannot be met because of the ever smaller scope of the welfare state. The other major difficulty they face is that they can no longer get in touch with public servants, almost systematically replaced by machines. They no longer have physical interlocutors to hear them, to help them, to respond to their demands, which are not the same for all. I will take only one example: while my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, where 1.6 million inhabitants live, had 100 social security centres ten years ago, there are only 15 of them left today, and no longer can a social insured person have in front of him a human to whom to expose his difficulty or his problem. Digital platforms, telephone numbers where one has to type 1 or 2 have replaced agents guided by the general interest. This question is, of course, envisaged by the motion for a resolution, but it is barely touched upon, and for good reason! The signatories of this text have in fact voted the disastrous law of transformation of the civil service, which has liberalized the status of these agents, with all the consequences that this implies for the users. And when the administration allows users to come into contact with flesh and blood beings, they then have the heavy task of treating misery, with all the violence of despair it drains. Finally, perhaps the node is to be sought less in administrative burdens than in the conduct of a policy that leaves more and more people on the edge of the road. Next week, you will have the opportunity to vote for a text that we will propose to you and that deals with the Pathup platform and the stress it generates every year for thousands of high school students, more specifically for those who do not have the cultural, relational or economic capital that allows them to find their way in the opacity of this selection tool. It will be an effective and fast way to combat the administrative stress of our children and their parents. Will you vote with us? We certainly share your concern to improve French relations with the administration, but we do not subscribe to your analysis of the causes, and therefore not to your remedies. In conclusion, allow me to send back each and every one of those who believe that the private sector could free our country from a suffocating bureaucracy by reading the work of David Graeber, an American anthropologist, who demonstrates that the bureaucracy is not the fault of the state of its officials, but rather that of the markets and their financialization. In the form of an alert, he tells us that any reform aimed at reducing the position of the State will have the ultimate effect of increasing the number of regulations and the total volume of paperwork. As you will have understood, we will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which, under the guise of protecting the users of public services, takes a somewhat complacent view of our administration and public services and, in essence, suggests to us the famous neoliberal discourse: less state, regulation and constraints. Conversely, we believe that our country needs a stronger and more humane state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u121	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u122	This motion for a resolution from the Group of the European People's Party calls on us to recognise, prevent and combat the administrative exhaustion of users and public service agents. However, in order to treat this administrative exhaustion, prevention is the best treatment. We must go to the source of the problem, that is to say, to reduce the administrative complexity in our country. This is a major expectation of the French. Who of us did not hear, in his permanent constituency, a citizen tell him that he is locked in an administrative maze and ask him to help him get out of it? We have all heard it, and that is why we have acted throughout the quinquennium. Here are some concrete examples of what we have done. In the past, companies faced too many labour-threshold obligations. It was a veritable millefeuille, which distinguished 199 thresholds and different regulations for each of them. With the PACTE law, or the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, we have grouped the regulations around three thresholds, set respectively at 11, 50 and 250 employees. In the past, setting up an industrial site was difficult and could take two or three years. With the ASAP law, we simplified the procedures to save time. Previously, taxes were paid on the previous year's income, which posed countless problems. Today, income tax is levied at source, at the same time as income is collected. Prior to that, citizens had no right to make mistakes. With the ESSOC law, or law for a State serving a trust society, it is now up to the administration to demonstrate the bad faith of the user. Before that, squatter victims took months and months to return to their homes. Under the ASAP law, prefects and law enforcement officers can act in a matter of hours as part of an express procedure. As a result of this law, ninety-five victims were able to return to their homes in a few days in the first half of this year. Without this law, these ninety-five families would probably still be on the tile, waiting for a judicial decision. I could mention many other simplification measures implemented during this quinquennium, including the bill that we have just passed to simplify the change in the insurance of his home loan. It's concrete. However, I would like to share with you one observation: that of political hypocrisy in this area. Everyone, indeed, agrees to make it simple, and no one here says, on arriving in the morning, that he will complicate the law and the norms to bother the French! However, parliamentarians discharge hundreds of amendments every day to the laws that are proposed to us, and some of them, who are usually the first to demand simplicity on television sets, get rid of themselves when they return to this House. One example: thanks to the ASAP Act, we removed a quarter of the Theodule committees and commissions, but there were still parliamentarians here to defend their retention, to explain, for example, that the Central Milk Committee was indispensable, that the Rural Lease Advisory Commission was wonderful, that the departmental Space Management Commission was useful or that the Supreme Council of Mutuality was vital. At the end of the day, our majority had the courage to suppress all this, but the opposition, on the right and on the left, voted against it, and the left even appealed to the Constitutional Council to complain that we were going far too far!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u123	If there was no democracy, it would be easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u124	In reality, the work of simplification is not simple. It is not enough to say that it is necessary to make it simple for administrative procedures to become so by magic, just as it is not enough to recognise the administrative exhaustion of the French, which is quite real, to really fight against the complexity that causes so much suffering to our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Part of our group will vote for this resolution in recognition of the suffering caused by certain aspects of the French bureaucracy. Another party will choose to abstain, preferring to choose another method: to put their hands in the cambois, to simplify each administrative procedure, one by one, hard to do, with the constancy of the gardener, who is sizeable to allow the growth of plants, and with an objective that I believe we all share here: that the work of our assembly really and concretely improve the everyday lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u125	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u126	The proposal we are considering today is to invite the Government to recognize, prevent and combat the risk of administrative exhaustion of the French. It is rare, indeed, during my permanences, that I do not receive one of our fellow citizens who comes to explain to me the problems he encounters in his administrative situation. It is also rare for me to understand the reasons that led the administration to refuse a legitimate request from the administrator or to ignore his or her actual situation in the study of his or her file. I can cite very many examples where our citizens are or feel wronged in their relations with the administration. As our colleague Valérie Petit said, it is today the daily life of every elected member of the Republic to deal with such situations. It is therefore essential that the legislator deals with the substance of this problem, so that these frequent and all too often absurd situations actually cease. The most common problem is that some life paths have not been standardized by the administration. In these cases, the citizen does not enter the box provided for in a particular CERFA form. The forms have, moreover, become a passion of our administrations or, more precisely, of certain bureaucrats, who add ever more rules, procedures and boxes to be checked in order to benefit from assistance or to ask to be able to make an arrangement in his garden. All this inexorably leads to more complications, anger and exclusion. This bureaucracy is not to be confused with the substantive work carried out by the officials on the ground – and I agree with our colleague Stéphane Peu – where there are still public services, when there are still some. [[Mr. Guillaume Kasbarian laughs]] Yes, there is a real interest in putting meaning and heart back into public action. Unfortunately, your motion for a resolution will solve nothing, because as it deals with a concrete subject, it proposes solutions that are more abstract than each other. In order to solve the problem of administrative exhaustion which you echo in this motion for a resolution, we must first and foremost combat administrative complexity. In this regard, what have you done in the last five years in the majority, despite the exercise of self-satisfaction by my predecessor in the rostrum? The initial aim of the ASAP Act, which was to bring the administration closer to the citizen, simplify the procedures of individuals and facilitate the development of enterprises by speeding up administrative procedures, has only added measures with little or no relevance to the objective of simplifying public action. Lots of blabla for no results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u127	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u128	I remember that the former Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, had announced that any new standard would remove two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u130	Where are we five years later? For it will not be, as you propose, by creating a provisional definition of administrative exhaustion or by initiating forums for debates and exchanges on this subject, that we will collectively fight against the administrative complexity faced by our fellow citizens. Nor will it be the request for a report on the state of the relationship between users and the public service that will solve any problem for our citizens, because there are as many problems as there are. Finally, of course, it will not be your proposal to make each department aware of the issue of administrative burnout that will move things forward. I am convinced, although in the opposition, that no minister stands on these benches and says: I hope that the citizens will make an administrative burn-out. I am sure that ministers and staff in cabinets are fully aware of this. It is necessary to act, and we all know that, but it is not the content of this motion for a resolution that will solve this real problem. That is why the Group of the Republicans will vote against what is only a communication operation, which will bring nothing and in no way relieve the daily lives of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u131	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u132	The interest of the subject of this motion for a resolution is undeniable. Many of our fellow citizens are tired of sometimes having to fight against the administration after conducting their daily struggles. And it's them that we find in our permanences, overtaken, discouraged, tired and disillusioned, also angry, who come to seek help to unravel cases that yet weigh heavily on their daily lives: employment, health, retirements or allowances that are no longer paid, requests for documents or appointments that turn into nightmares – or sketches when you really have a sense of humor. The fact is also undeniable: the proportion of those who have administrative difficulties is considerable: one in ten French citizens. It is on the youth side that the figures become worrying, with 37% of 18-24-year-olds saying they have difficulties in completing their administrative procedures, while this youth is considered familiar with digital technology. As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to this motion for a resolution, "12 % of those who encounter problems with the administration say that they abandon their efforts, a rate which reaches 18 % for people who are insecure or isolated, while farmers (ice) s, (25 %), inactive persons (16 %) or those who do not hold the baccalaureate (15 %) report, more often than the general population, abandoning the approach to problems encountered with the administration. » Finally, what seems particularly alarming is the percentage of non-use of rights related to administrative complexity, which is close to 30%. This tells us that the tools are not always enough to produce results, and that the obstacles that prevent citizens from grasping and asserting their rights are far more complex than too fast a reading might make us think. The negative impact of this administrative exhaustion is obvious. It undermines morale and, above all, it undermines the relationship between administration and citizens. This is the confidence that needs to be built up between them, along the lines of the 2000 Great Citizens' Rights Act, in their relations with the administrations. It is with this logic that this problem should be taken with arms-to-body. Because our time, that of digital technology, has not improved things in this regard, we cannot simply introduce tools without thinking about the social and cultural realities of users. If it can be difficult to be heard by a person, then try to chat with a computer... The administration needs agents because it is humanity that it needs above all. The use of all digital can make things easier, of course, but for a part of the population that is connected and that has no difficulty with computer science. What we need to talk about today is the digital divide and the need for the administration to adapt to the diversity of its audience. The digital that should accompany and relieve is all too often synonymous with heavyness, new difficulties. And what can we answer to those who make choices other than digital, because there are? Is it the administration and our officials that should be blamed? Obviously no, as much as it appears that they carry out essential missions under conditions which, alas, are! far from being easy given the often insufficient means of performing their duties in a dignified manner. It would be too easy to point a finger at the administration, to mount the French against each other, because finally it is also on our collective strength to defend these services to the public that we must be questioned. What we need is to build the human capacity of our administrations to enable them to fulfil their role of providing access to public rights and services. This is the direction that must be taken if we are to simply meet the expectations of the majority of French and French people and put an end to situations that are too often upuesque or even dramatic. That is why, while we support in part the recommendations of this motion for a resolution, we believe that the solutions suggested forget the essential thing, namely the means of making effective this promise of the Republic to give all citizens – equal in law in principle – access to quality public services throughout our territory. The intention is one thing, the concrete measures that produce results in the daily lives of our fellow citizens are another. We therefore remain committed to the intention with which we can only agree. We will therefore vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u133	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u134	In theory, in 2021 this motion for a resolution aimed at raising awareness of administrative exhaustion should not have provoked any debate within the national representation. In theory, in 2021, the great leap forward of digital technology, the digitalization of our society in almost all our daily activities promised a certain reduction of the administrative burden. But in the realm of theory, as everyone knows, there was not a single button left for our soldiers before the defeat of 1870. In theory again, we must never miss masks whose stocks were, we were told, considerable at the beginning of the health crisis. Administrative exhaustion is not a feeling or a fantasy, but a sad reality that can take the shape of suffering, and this motion for a resolution emphasises it well. The French concerned are also struck by other discriminations constantly mentioned, but never really combated: territorial and social exclusion, the digital divide, medical desertification, precariousness. The victims are always the same: they were "France from below" according to Jean-Pierre Raffarin, "the toothless" for François Hollande and "those who are nothing" for Emmanuel Macron. Thus, workers, the unemployed, employees, isolated pensioners, persons with disabilities, single mothers, already confronted with a difficult daily life, also suffer the stress and anguish of being confronted with an administration increasingly dematerialized in acts, and increasingly dehumanized in practice. For years, the administrative ogre has become fatter with the explosion of taxes and taxes, the normative inflation for everything and the reverse of everything, the layers of the territorial millefeuille, the drifts of the technocracy which has fed its own system in contempt of common sense. This government, like its predecessors, has led to administrative exhaustion by the constant and systematic degradation of community-based public services, which provide, in particular in rural areas, the essential for the most fragile: contact, listening, presence and support. In my constituency of Pas-de-Calais, I objected to the closure of the treasury of the commune of Bully-les-Mines envisaged by the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) on 1 January 2023. While the plan to restructure the tax administration network provides for the pooling of cash flows, in fact it is simply a matter of eliminating local public services in territories already exhausted by inequalities. Every abolition of cash, SNCF counter, post office, gendarmerie, class and school is a serious violation of the equality of citizens with regard to access to public service. This setback of ruralism inevitably penalizes our most fragile fellow citizens, those who encounter physical or economic difficulties in moving and who do not fit into the grey squares of digital relationships, such as those over the age of 65. The French are increasingly demanding proximity and humanity. They made it clear in the context of the great national debate that you threw into oblivion after the yellow vest crisis. As a simplification, the bureaucracy of the Republic of Absurdistan gave birth to the memorable attestations of displacement and the disastrous health pass. For more than four years, you have divided, disrupted and exhausted the French. In this context, the solutions are not found in the proposals contained in this resolution which, forgive me, do not reinvent hot water.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u135	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, the Group of the European People's Party has before it a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u136	The President of the Republic has set clear objectives for each of the ministers: to ensure a more humane administration that promotes a policy of proximity and benevolence to establish a relationship of trust between citizens and their public services. This ambition is at the heart of my roadmap as Minister of Transformation and Public Service. This Ministry is, in fact, a real Ministry of Public Services, Users and Public Officials, since we cannot design these entities separately. In your explanatory statement, Madame Petit, you call for a change of culture and practices in the relationship between the administration and the French, in the sense of a more caring, less bureaucratic relationship, and a return to the meaning of their action for public officials. You describe situations that are sometimes upuesque, in which our fellow citizens find themselves deprived in the face of administration. These situations are unfortunately! It is a priority of my ministry and of the services that make up it, which already have multidisciplinary teams to follow up precisely the quality of the relationship between administration and citizens. For we cannot resolve the complexity and inequalities of access to rights, which all too often lead to non-recourse. However, I will not be able to join you in the harsh terms used with regard to our administration, which you call "psychological prison", or "steel cage". I would like to go beyond this rather dark portrait of our administration that you draw up, and to commend the commitment of our public officials to the service of our fellow citizens. I would like to say that every public official engaged daily to serve users is the first to wish for more simplicity, proximity, efficiency and the first to want to solve problems, especially the most complex cases. Although heavy burdens exist, much has been done for the past four years, especially during the health crisis, by ensuring continuity of service, adaptability of our public services and, above all, of our public officials, to meet the needs of all our citizens throughout the territory. We share this desire for simplification. But administrative simplification is first and foremost a practical simplification of the lives of users. This government did not make the choice to create an isolated ministry, a ministry of simplification whose mission would have been to provoke great shocks, but rather to do this precise, tedious work – MP Kasbarian spoke of hard work – which each ministry carries out everywhere and all the time, and which my ministry accompanies and facilitates. In fact, we want to build a simple, efficient public service that actually requires a high-quality digital system, which allows everyone to do his or her own business from home without moving around, at the time that is right for him or her. It is a considerable work which now allows 86% of the daily procedures of the French people to be digitized and which will allow, by the end of the year, 40% of them to be accessible to all persons with disabilities. But we want to go further. We have made a strong commitment to end the over-billing of the calling numbers of the various public services. This has been the case since January 1st. We are in the process of redesigning 100 forms, one by one, with users, for simplicity: whenever a citizen reports absurdity, incongruity or incomprehension, we change things. We are putting in place the intermediation of maintenance payments. It is a radical simplification: the people concerned will no longer have to take legal steps or to the family allowance fund to recover their rights. For a parent who financially supports the life of his or her home, no longer having his or her spouse at his or her side, it is hours and hours of administrative work at his or her expense that we want to eliminate. If it is important to go further, this assessment is concrete and real, and our fellow citizens know that. Another example: FranceConnect, thanks to which 32 million of our citizens today have a unique code and identifier to do their work. This is a major simplification. To go further, the administration must no longer be a series of waiting windows, instructs French people with problems to find the right window to talk about it. Yesterday, in the Law Committee, you passed clause 50 of Bill 3DS to implement a proactive administration, which no longer waits for the citizen but goes to meet him, who knows him through the sharing of data and avoids him from taking any steps. In this way, we will be able to assign life rights to people with disabilities, we will be able to accompany the most precarious and deprived people in the face of procedures, with pre-filled forms or even more forms at all. Behind your proposals, the challenge is to achieve a benevolent administration that goes to the citizen. It is therefore a change of posture, in contrast to a dehumanized relationship. A benevolent administration is a trustworthy administration. The ESSOC law of 2018 introduced the right to error. The citizen is first and foremost an actor in good faith. If he made a mistake, he must be helped to correct it before sanctioning it. Trust is also an administration that moves faster and accelerates its action. Mr Kasbarian, rapporteur of the ASAP law, recalled the removal of numerous Theodule committees in order to speed up decision-making. Also, 99% of individual decisions are now taken at the department level: it is no longer necessary that questions go back to the region or to Paris in order to be the subject of a decision taken from afar, with slowness and sometimes disconnected from realities. I am leading this confidence building alongside the agents, because public officials are the first to be involved. They know the heaviness and the difficulties. We want to build, with the users and those who help the French in difficulty, a more benevolent action. A few days ago, I gathered in my ministry the French Red Cross, the Catholic Relief and the UFC-Que choix, first accompanying the most precarious people, to know what situations they see improving and on which we must concentrate our action. Trust is also made of feeling, the feeling of sometimes not being listened to, of encountering a bureaucratic machine. I want to replace it with dialogue and kind exchanges. This is why Public Services + allows the citizen to give his or her opinion, to make known what is not working and to obtain an answer. I do not believe that an administration that everywhere prevails the rule that silence is acceptable is on the scale and listening to our country. We must respond to our fellow citizens, and I urge the administrations to do so. The confidence building project is also a community building project. Digitality must be reconciled with proximity and modernity with humanity. That is why we want every citizen, whether behind a window, on the phone or behind a digital application, to be in contact with these women and men engaged in the service of the public throughout the territory. Unlike previous governments, we have not closed sub-prefectures, these essential places of reception. We have rethought, mesh by mesh, place by place, canton by canton, the presence of the public service. A great success of this quinquennium is the 1800 spaces France Services. This morning, I was with Joël Giraud in the Loiret, in Meung-sur-Loire, in a house that accommodates a psychologist, a social worker and trained public officials, in order to receive the men and women of the territory to accompany them in their efforts. More than 300,000 French were accompanied, 80% of them came out with a solution. France Services, it is the choice to offer each Frenchman, less than twenty to thirty minutes from home, a place of welcome, listening and accompaniment. In your department, Madame Valérie Petit, there are thirty-five France Services spaces and buses – reminiscent of your deputy bus – that move instead of waiting for people to come to them in a permanence. Whether through a physical, telephone or digital link, our priority is to ensure that public services are accessible to all our citizens, regardless of the channel. In conclusion, in order to deal at the root with the difficulties you raise in relation to the administration, know that this is what I am working on morning, noon and evening with my fellow ministers, under the impetus of the President of the Republic. Every quarter, in the Council of Ministers, we take stock of the quality of service, the rate of winning and the response time for this subject, which is not a subject of stewardship, to be seen as a political subject, a subject of trust, at the heart of our democracy. Beyond simplification, we also need to improve the action of public officials, to give them the means to act, from the point of view of everyday life, it is a priority. With the reform of the high public service that I am defending, we will finally be able to emerge from a standard-driven administration and a culture that we know too well, a culture of control, audit, and Parisian planning. We will be able to move towards an operational civil service, committed to the proximity and implementation of public policies, to the monitoring of its results. We will have managers and agents trained from the real, the field, trained in management and decision-making. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] I thank you for providing us with the opportunity, through this motion for a resolution, to remind your House of our action, together with the parliamentary majority of which you are a member, to implement our commitments to administrative simplification and republican confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u137	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u138	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 36 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1072.u139	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Proposal for a law to appoint children born without life; Bill for the introduction of cybersecurity certification for digital platforms; Proposal for an organic law promoting the localization of parliamentarians; Proposal for a law on overseas civil servants and military personnel; Bill to create a referral and care platform for chronic covid-19 patients; Proposal for a law on the employment of experienced workers until retirement; Motion for a resolution to recognise the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq. The meeting is adjourned.
