ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic (No. 3649 corrected, 3797). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the forty-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one hundred and fifteen years to the day, after the law on the separation of churches and the State, I had the honour, together with the Minister for Citizenship, to present to the President of the Republic, in the Council of Ministers, the text before you today. It is not new to you: we have been talking about it for a long time – it has been prepared by my predecessors, Gérard Collomb and Christophe Castaner, whom I would like to welcome – and the special committee that you have chosen to create, Mr President, has devoted an in-depth work to it, with 155 hours of debate and the adoption of 196 amendments, very often with the Government's favourable opinion. Through this in-depth work, the National Assembly continued the debate initiated by the Government. Our country is sick. He is sick of a separatism, the first of which, Islamist separatism, gangrene national unity. After tackling terrorism, the President of the Republic wanted to lead the State and public authorities' action against what is the soil of terrorism. When you are sick, you must know how to name your illness, identify its characteristics and study its variants, but you must also find the medicines. Those proposed by the Government and the parliamentary majority are to remain faithful to, strengthen and emphasize republican principles. The best way to combat this disease is not to invent a new Republic or a new authority, nor to disregard the rule of law, as those who fight against us would wish, but to strengthen republican principles. This is the cure. This bill is faithful to the republican tradition of secularism. What does that mean? The secularism, which was built long before 1905 thanks to the hard work of the State as a whole, then, of course, of the Third World. Republic is both religious plurality, neutrality of the State and its agents, and freedom of worship. Religious plurality is what we propose here: we do not present an ad hominem text, directed against a religion or believers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u4	Yes! That's what you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u5	... but a text for everyone, which will have implications for everyone – it is a very important point. Freedom of worship is what we are strengthening. Discussions have taken place, and there will be others, with those who believe that we are aiming at one religion – and they are often the same who refuse to give additional means to religions and cults. Since 1905, many things have happened in the territory of the Republic. The freedom of worship, with the limits due to respect for public order, is thus consolidated by this text, which considerably strengthens the advantages of the 1905 law, so that each cult finds there – we hope – a place of development, and gives means to control public order. The neutrality of the State and its agents is extended as never before, in particular to article 1. Many provisions of the text have given rise to controversy, whether they concern transport, swimming pools or public service delegations, which now prevail in intercommunal and communal areas; We respond courageously. We can welcome the opinion of the Council of State on the bill, and thank the collaborators of the ministries who, by working on it, ensured that French law and its fundamental principles were respected. The text reflects the decisive role given to public action in this area, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic. Freedom of worship, religious plurality, neutrality of the State and its agents: this, in our view, is the remedy against part of what is eating us. The neutrality of State agents is not the distinction that some would like to make between public expression of one's religion and the discretion of that religion. Let us remember that secularism has never been the silence of religious opinions – the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen states that "no one should be disturbed for his or her views, even religious ones".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u6	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u7	This clarification undoubtedly proves that revolutionaries had some questions about religion, but it enshrines above all the idea that religious expression is a fundamental right. The bill, like the majority who support it, does not fight religions. The speech delivered by the President of the Republic to the Walls is the corollary of the speech he gave to the College of Bernardins: we do not think that being a believer opposes being a citizen. For the Republicans we are all, and as Aristide Briand said right here 115 years ago, the law must protect faith, as long as faith does not claim to say the law. Yes, religious expressions are possible; They can generate debate, but we cannot ban them. The bill recalls that religion is a French matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u8	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u9	Foreign powers do not have to pay ministers of worship in the territory of the Republic. The President of the Republic had the courage, first, to put an end to the practice of imams on the ground of the Republic. I repeat, the financing of cults must not come from abroad: for the first time in the history of the Republic, we give ourselves the opportunity to know these foreign financings and to oppose them – often, in fact, "who pays decides". The text we are submitting reminds you that religion is a French matter, not a foreign matter. Following Philip the Bel, who imposed his power on the Church and created Gallicanism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u10	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u11	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... we consider that all religions must be able to flourish on the ground of the Republic, on the sole condition that they respect the laws of the Republic and that they are accountable only to itself and to no other foreign power. [[Same movements]] This text fights above all, and above all, ideologies – especially Islamist ideology, even if it is not the only one. To paraphrase Stanislas de Clermont-Tonnerre, it is necessary to grant everything to Muslims as citizens, and to deny everything to ideologues who attack the Republic and attack Islam. We know this: some of the officiaries are at work, especially – but not only – in places of worship. Extremely strong provisions will guarantee the independence and autonomy of the latter, so that worship can take care of worship and politics. Officials are also at work in the associative world, which is unfortunately gangreneous – the experiences of local elected officials show this. We are responding to this by means of the Republican contract of engagement, supported by the Deputy Minister for Citizenship, but also by the possibility of suspending associative activities pending better days, and of dissolving associations that prove to be real compendias. In addition, the cults will have to have a clear discourse. When the State has to make a strong decision to close places of worship, it must do so without shaking hands. Thus he declared the closure of the mosque in Pantin. Since then, the members of the mosque have been cleaning up their homes and organizing themselves in accordance with the laws of the Republic, and the Ministry of the Interior will therefore have to allow its early reopening. We do not fight a religion, but against those who lead an OPA – public offer of purchase – Islamist on Muslims. Public services and their agents are also under attack. In order to fight against the perpetrators of these acts, Mr. Keeper of the Seals and I have instituted, in articles 4 and 18, an offence of separatism, which is an original and strong measure. The authority will remain in the law and, when the authors are foreigners, the judge will be able to pronounce a ban on French territory – you wished it, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, and I thank you for that. The text also aims to protect the dignity of the person and the equality between women and men, who are the subject of circumvention: forced marriage, polygamy and virginity certificates are all degrading actions on which the Deputy Minister will return. Never before had a law gone so far in its prohibitions and in its convictions – including, I repeat, the possibility of imposing a ban on French territory. The bill also focuses on education; The Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports will return. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior is carrying out a long effort to combat "illegal" schools: they will be subject to high penalties and may be subject to administrative closures. Various provisions also concern the Internet; Mr. Keeper of the Seals and Mr. Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications will return. In this respect, France is, as always, at the forefront, before the European Commission and the other Member States. Online hatred is sometimes stronger than real hatred, but unfortunately it turns into real hatred, and Salafists in social networks are sometimes far more effective than Salafists in places of worship. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We therefore submit to you a beautiful text of protection of freedom and secularism, which does not translate naivety or hysteria. Faithful to the Republic, it aims to ensure that everyone can live freely, express his or her worship, pray or not pray, as he or she sings. It is now up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to make the law. During our fifteen days of debate, the Government will be open to any proposal, but will remain faithful to its conviction that the Republic must remain what it is, faithful to the Constitution of General de Gaulle, faithful to the law of 1905, faithful to the history of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u12	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u13	"The Republic is an idea, the Republic is a principle, the Republic is a right. The Republic is the very embodiment of progress. It is by quoting these words from Victor Hugo that I have the honour to introduce to you the bill confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, after fifty-five hours of debate in special committee. The Minister of the Interior and I submitted it to the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2020, 115 years after the 1905 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u14	It's not your honor, believe me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is the result of extensive consultations conducted by the Ministry of the Interior and the Government with civil society, political parties, religious representatives, intellectuals and philosophical associations. You yourself have conducted numerous hearings, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to commend the work of the special committee, its chairman, the general rapporteur and the thematic rapporteurs. The objective of the text is clear: to defend our values; defending secularism, the promise of freedom, emancipation and progress; To give the Republic all the means to fight more effectively against what is the root of terrorism. We thus recall the absolute primacy of the principles and laws of the Republic over any other system. This goes, of course, through the neutrality of public services and better support for associative activities, in order to prevent the flourishing of discourses and practices contrary to the values of the Republic. Not a euro of public money should be given to the enemies of the Republic: in this sense, as the President of the Republic has wished, we will propose the creation of a Republican contract of engagement. Associations wishing to receive a public subsidy will undertake, through this text, to respect the principles of the Republic; in the event of non-compliance, the grant may be withdrawn and will have to be reimbursed. This Republican contract of engagement, drawn up in great consultation with elected officials and associations, is a contract of trust. I know that he has raised legitimate questions. However, I would like to point out that the vast majority of associations participate in the Republican offer, and that a minority is deviating the principles of the 1901 law and conveying values contrary to republican principles. Through the contract of engagement, the state and communities will have a clear legal tool in their hands. Respect for the principles of the Republic also implies respect for the rights of persons, including equality between women and men. All over the world, separatist ideologies primarily attack women, deciding in their place what they have the right to do. We believe that all women living in France must be respected in their integrity and protected in their dignity. Feminism is to deny other women what we would never tolerate for ourselves, for our sisters or for our daughters. The "harmful practices" – to use the expression of African non-governmental organizations that have alerted us – do not have their place in France: forced marriages, polygamy, discrimination of girls against inheritance, certificates of virginity...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u16	All this is already forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u17	Many years ago, France had the courage to say no to excision, pointing the way to many countries of the world, and supporting a work of conviction through feminist diplomacy led by the President of the Republic. We must continue this fight and dare to affirm that the Republic does not tolerate any violation of human dignity. This is what we propose with the chapter that the Special Committee wished to call "respect for the rights of persons and equality between women and men". In this chapter, we will ensure equal treatment between heirs, so that girls can no longer be deprived in France. In this regard, I would like to thank the seal keeper for his personal commitment, particularly on this measure. We establish a general reserve of polygamy for the issuance and renewal of residence permits. In fact, our debates in committee have improved this mechanism. We want to ban health care professionals from issuing virginity certificates. It is not by producing such certificates that we will improve the condition of young women who are the victims of pressure, or even that we will protect them. Your work in committee allowed for a constructive debate on the criminalization of persons inciting or forcing a woman to apply for a certificate of virginity. I am confident that we will still have the opportunity, in our debates, to improve the writing of our law. We will strengthen the fight against forced marriages by making it compulsory for the civil registry officer to refer the case to the public prosecutor in case of serious and persistent doubts about the consent of one of the spouses. All these provisions must, of course, go beyond the law, be accompanied by strong inter-ministerial public policy actions. We are already working with the ministers here and with the entire Government. In addition, Gérald Darmanin and I tabled two amendments in committee, working with our colleague Amélie de Montchalin, aimed at strengthening secularism in the public service. The first provides for training in secularism for all public officials; the second is the designation of a network of secular referents in all public administrations. You have welcomed them and I thank you for that, because secularism is the cement of our Republic and must be at the heart of public service. I know the fundamental work that parliamentarians are doing, and I have no doubt that our debates will further improve this piece of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, our law is a law of freedom, reasonable and fair, that respects secularism, strengthens it, respects freedom of worship...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u18	That's not true! It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...and protect freedom of conscience. It is a law that honours a republican assembly. Thank you for your commitment and attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u20	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u21	I am delighted to be here this afternoon alongside my colleagues Gérald Darmanin, Marlène Schiappa and Jean-Michel Blanquer to discuss the general discussion of this bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The presence before you of the representatives of the three ministries – internal, justice and national education – bears witness, I believe, to our willingness to deal with the question of respect for the principles of the Republic according to a comprehensive approach: to ensure first of all the transmission by the Republican school, then to prevent under the best conditions the offences that would be made to these principles, and finally to give us the legal means of a clear criminal response to these acts. As I have already said, and I repeat, this response must be adapted, rapid and systematic. In order to achieve this result, several provisions that I defend on behalf of the Ministry of Justice have been designed and subsequently enriched by the special commission, in order to offer the necessary tools to the investigative services and the magistrates to punish as best as possible those who wish to make gang apart from the republican framework. First of all, article 3 of the draft law changes the system for the register of perpetrators of terrorist offences, FIJAIT. In this way, we wish to strengthen the fight against terrorism by verifying that any person applying for employment or for authorization has not been previously convicted or charged with offences directly or indirectly connected with terrorist activities. We also wish, with Article 4, to strengthen the protection of persons who carry out public service tasks against those who, through violent or threatening behaviour, wish to undermine our ability to make a society. It is urgent that our public officials, who are on the front line in the face of this separatist drift, know that they are protected by law and supported by their head of service. This bill also contains an important part of the fight against online hatred because, as the terrible attack that cost Samuel Paty his life has shown, these networks have sometimes become vectors of the most complicated hatred and can, alas! to allow the worst. Thus, article 18 creates the offence of endangering a person by disseminating personal information allowing his identification or relating to his private life, even if it is not followed by consequences. For this, the intentional element will obviously be decisive. I would like to commend the work of the rapporteur, Laetitia Avia, who has rightly clarified this intention, stating that the author cannot ignore the risk to which he exposes the victim. Article 19 also addresses "mirror sites" with a view to blocking all such sites whose illegal content would be similar and repeated. Finally, article 20 will allow for the immediate prosecution of the authors of hate speech on the Internet. I am pleased that your committee has completed the list of offences in order to understand the phenomenon of online hatred in the widest possible way. This method of prosecution will provide the prompt response that is lacking in the criminal arsenal to these acts. It is no more or less a matter of breaking the spiral of hatred that thrives on the web and whose authors too often delay being judged. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups. and Dem]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by welcoming the work of the rapporteur-general Florent Boudié and the thematic rapporteurs, in particular Laurence Vichnievsky and Laetitia Avia, who have made a major contribution to improving the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I must confess that after six months at the head of the Chancery, I have heard the word "liberticide" more than in thirty-five years in the courtrooms. I say, however, this law is a law of freedom: freedom of worship,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u22	Orwell!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... the freedom to marry the person we love, the freedom to express oneself, to debate, to caricature without suffering the social networks and torrents of hatred that have long broken with our conception of freedom of expression, the freedom for State agents to carry out their mission on a daily basis without fear for them or their families, this freedom which finally irritates all the principles of our Republic and which we propose to you today to strengthen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u25	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... the freedom to be able to marry the person we love, the freedom to express oneself, to debate, to caricature without suffering the social networks and torrents of hatred that have long broken with our conception of freedom of expression, the freedom for State agents to carry out their mission on a daily basis without fear for them or their families, this freedom which finally irritates all the principles of our Republic and which we propose to you to strengthen. Our country is in a special situation vis-à-vis the school, because the school was the founder of the regime in which we are. Without a school of the Republic, there is no Republic, and we measure it particularly in the current circumstances, where we can say every day that school is good for children, and absolutely indispensable for the construction of the child as well as for the construction of the Republic. That is why the articles that I will have the pleasure of presenting to you in the coming days are not only about the defence of the Republic, but also about the defence of the rights of the child. On each of the subjects, the best interests of the child are considered. No one has absolute rights over children. It is the honour of the Republic, and therefore of society, to defend every child in all situations – and it is true, of course, for the right to education. There are four ways in France to enrol a child: he can go to public school, go to a private school under contract, go to a private school out of contract or follow a family education. These four modalities...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u26	There should only be one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u27	...must obviously be examined by us if we want to strengthen the Republic. With this bill, we are not starting from scratch. From the beginning of this quinquennium, work was started on some of these aspects. I obviously started with the school of the Republic. We have created the Council of the Wise of Laity; we have developed a body of norms called "vade-mecum of secularism", which has allowed teachers to have a point of reference in everyday life whenever a question arises; We have created "Values of the Republic" teams that intervene in each academy of France every time a problem is reported, and we have simply indicated that never again it would seem like "no waves" in this house. Unfortunately, in 2020, this issue was illustrated by a tragedy, to which the keeper of the seals just referred: the assassination of Professor Samuel Paty. It was an opportunity to understand that this subject was not abstract, but that it could touch us in our flesh: we can die for the Republic, and that's what happened to Samuel Paty. Beyond the school of the Republic, we need to address other aspects: private out-of-contract education and family education. With regard to private non-contracted education, we are also not starting from scratch, thanks to the Gatel Act, which has been very effective in preventing the opening of schools that seem not to respect the values of the Republic. The bill before you is a step forward in closing these out-of-contract schools that do not comply with the laws of the Republic, because it will be much easier in the future for the public authority to close them whenever a breach has been found, of course under the supervision of the judge in case of doubt as to the relevance of this decision. Family education is certainly the provision that made the most ink sink among those I have to present to you. The bill complements the provisions previously included in our body of legislation. Indeed, family education is a kind of legal vacuum in the face of the challenge of freedom of education in France. To clarify the framework is to specify a freedom, and thus to strengthen it. It is not a question of abolishing this method of teaching, but of ensuring that it is also in line with the values of the Republic, because it would be very surprising if it remained on the margins of our work in this direction. Throughout our discussions, we will have an opportunity to see how we are going to frame it. We wanted a system of authorization, in order to guarantee the rights of the child. We also wanted an exception regime whenever it was necessary to take account of the particularities. This law will strengthen freedom, simply because it will provide a framework for the organization of family education. It will also protect the rights of the child, because we will not be able to do anything in this context. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This law will enable one of the serious problems of Islamist separatism to be addressed: the fact that children can be taken to school illegally as part of family education. I would point out that more than half of the children we find when we dismantle, together with the Minister of the Interior, such a structure are children who, officially, are attending school as part of family education. It is this effectiveness that we want and that will enable us to defend the Republic on a daily basis, as well as the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u28	I call Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u29	The text submitted for our consideration, which the special commission debated for more than 55 hours, with about 100 hearings, is based on the simple observation that a part of the national community, the only one recognized by the Republic, has chosen to place itself or has allowed itself to be drawn on the margins of the main principles which underpin it and which organize it, starting with those of the republican motto. These principles, groups, ideologies, individuals have set themselves the objective of challenging them and turning them against our society, with the aim of making community apart, until they pretend to kill them in crime, in terrorist horror. These individuals, these groups, these ideologies, France are fighting them and this is the whole issue of the fight against religious and political radicalisations, for which our country has developed a general plan and which constantly adapts to the realities of the field and to the changes in behaviour. This is also the whole issue of the counter-terrorism arsenal, whose rise in power, including logistics, has been growing steadily since 2015. But these individuals, these groups, these ideologies, we must also fight them when they take more insidious, more devious forms: the community retreat, the identity coagulation, what the President of the Republic, in his speeches in Mulhouse and the Walls, described as separatism. This reality is manifested mainly in our times, but not only in political Islamism, in extremist and radical Islamism. The target, the evil, we name them and we do it without any modesty, because political Islam is an ideology before being a religion, because it is a counter-project of society before being a theological drawing, and because this target, we must isolate it. It must first be isolated from the Muslims of France themselves, who reject radical Islamism in their overwhelming majority and who only aspire to live their faith in peace and freedom, that is, in the Republic. It must also be isolated in our society by affirming, and that is the very theme of the text that we are considering, a true spirit of republican reconquest. To those who think it is right to talk about the absence of a word in the text, I mean that these false trials do not deceive anyone. Did the law of 15 March 2004 regulating, according to its title, the wearing of signs or any manifestation of religious affiliation in schools, colleges and public high schools mention a particular religion, at least the ideological drifts of which it is falsely the pretext? No. Did the law of 11 October 2010 prohibiting, according to its title, the concealment of the face in public space, mention Islamism, which it aimed at? No more, and for a very simple reason: no republican law has ever named a particular ideology, let alone a religion or its drifts, even when it comes to fighting them, and it is the whole meaning of the Republic to enact general rules for every citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal is simple, and it explains the great variety of provisions of the bill that we are going to look at in the coming days: we want to track down separatist temptations and strategies wherever they enter – in public services, including local ones, in the networking of our associations, in schools or on the Internet, where a flood of hatred and lies is poured out. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These drifts, those strategies that sometimes rely on freedom of worship, fundamental freedom, to organize enclaves of embrigadement separated from civil society, levers for contesting principles – starting with secularism – that govern the only community that is worth, and which is the republican community, are the scope of the debates that open up to us: to hunt down all separatist drifts and do so with the cold force of the Republic and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u30	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter IV of Title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u31	While the debates that we are undertaking today echo the speech made in the Walls by the President of the Republic, this is not the case of the chapter on online hatred, of which I have the honour to be rapporteur, because this chapter has been incorporated into the text in painful circumstances: the attack on Samuel Paty, which led to the appearance of the role and the drifts of social networks in the eyes of all. We can no longer ignore it, because it is on Facebook that Samuel Paty was designated as a target; It was then on Twitter that this attack was claimed in the most disgusting way and it was on these same networks and on extremist sites that copies of this image of a beheaded head circulated days or even weeks. Finally, as we know, it is on the Internet that separatists recruit and take action through digital indoctrination strategies with the most vulnerable of us, with our youth. We collectively indignant ourselves; We must now act. To act is to punish those who hate, for whom impunity must no longer be the rule. This requires the construction of new protections, adapted to the uses and abuses of digital technology, such as the offence of endangering by the disclosure of personal data. As you said in committee, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, this new offence is intended to respond to what we could not apprehend in the Samuel Paty case. He responds to the hell that young Mila or young Hugo still live, who, for having made a joke on social networks, could no longer get out of his home. He will respond to the distress of this Tarn sports teacher who, this weekend again, received death threats and was thrown into social media, where her identity was revealed against the background of an incredible example of fake news. We can no longer let it happen, we can no longer let these lives be destroyed by some hateful disresabilized on social networks. That is why they will have to be brought before a judge, as soon as possible, in an immediate appearance. The time of justice must adapt to the digital time for all that is not part of the duties or protections of press law. Action is also a framework for social networks, and it is under the impetus of the European Commission that we can move forward. It is not a question of asking the platforms to take on their responsibilities, because the model of self-regulation has shown its limits. The digital giants act as they please, they modulate whenever they want, whatever they want, as they want, sometimes with one or two bursts of shine to redeem themselves a virginity and try to camouflage their perpetual inaction – Miss Provence and Christelle Yambayisa can testify to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u32	Trump, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u33	The rule of law demands consistency. That is why we will empower and supervise the platforms to render its letters of nobility to the Internet, so that it is a place of communication and sharing, not a place of propagation of hatred. It is also a matter of sovereignty: it is the time to determine who decides the rules that apply to all, and we answer that it is the law to do so, in these walls. I mean, acting is arming minds. Here I would like to pay tribute to the work of my colleague Caroline Abadie, who for more than two years has carried with conviction the project of a generalisation of the Internet permit, both in primary and in college, to gradually train all generations. Beyond the technical use of digital technology, we must make them aware of the economy of attention, the algorithmic confinement, the biases and drifts induced by social networks. It is a proposal for the future that I will enthusiastically support. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have the impression that we are living in a time in which two worlds coexist: the physical world, each of which knows the rules, and the digital world, which would be elusive, which would escape our control and behind which we would always be lagging behind, powerless. But as much as we are working at this very moment to impose in the physical space these rules of a common life essential to our republican pact, so much we must fight for these republican principles to prevail everywhere, including on our screens. Racism, anti-Semitism, LGBTphobia, child pornography, calls for hatred or calls for violence are not eligible in the Republic. It is time to assert it collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u34	Mrs Anne Brugnera, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter V of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u35	As rapporteur for articles 21 to 25 on education and sport, I would like to recall here how essential these articles are and why they are fully included in this bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. To strengthen respect for the principles of the Republic is to combat behaviour aimed at ensuring that standards other than those of the Republic prevail, whether they occur in public services or associations, as well as in schools and sports. It is, first of all, to consolidate the learning of these principles. Education is built primarily in the family, then school and sport have their full role to play in this learning of citizenship. Articles 21 to 24 are intended to provide a better framework for education other than public schools: our aim is to protect children from any form of indoctrination or obscurantism and, more broadly, to ensure respect for their rights, including education. If, in the majority of cases, family education or education in private institutions is going well and can be a response to the special needs of the child, their evolution must alert us. The number of children educated in families outside the CNED, the National Centre for Distance Learning, a regulated body, has increased from 3000 in 2008 to more than 45,000 today. The number of non-contracted private registrations has increased twice since 2012. These recent developments may reflect a form of social separatism, a deliberate break with the school of the Republic. This phenomenon must alert us, because school is the republican crucible par excellence, which allows children to socialize and which gives them access to social mix, equal opportunities and knowledge. It also has the primary mission of sharing the values and principles of the Republic. The confinement of last spring and the closure of schools, which unfortunately accompanied it, enabled everyone to measure the crucial role of schooling for children. Finally, we must not deny the shortcomings that we sometimes observe in the quality of the education of the children concerned, as well as in the respect for their most fundamental rights and their physical and moral integrity, as, alas, there have been some abuses. We must look at this reality in all its diversity and complexity, with responsibility and courage, and with all due respect for the families and children concerned, and at the same time we want to act with the utmost firmness towards those who circumvent the rules of the Republic and violate the rights of the child. That is why the bill provides for the supervision of family education so that it remains an opportunity for derogatory and supervised education, which is carried out only in the best interests of the child and is not diverted from its primary objective. This introduction of prior authorisation is the subject of Article 21. This article has been discussed at length in committee and we have amended the text. We reaffirmed the best interests of the child as the basis for a request for family education, incorporated the concept of an educational project and created an opportunity to derogate from the annual nature of the authorization. We have explained that the silence of the administration is valid after two months, and we have postponed the entry into force of the measure to 2022 to allow families time to prepare for it. We have also – important point – worked together to improve the fight against school dropout and school avoidance in order to better prevent and detect these phenomena, in particular through the generalisation of the national student identifier. The bill also aims to improve the control of non-contractual establishments by improving their knowledge of their staff and funding, and by facilitating their closure when they fail to meet their obligations. Article 24, for its part, requires that the contract of a private institution with the State be made conditional on its ability to provide education in accordance with the law or by reference to public education programmes. Here again, our objective is to guarantee to every child in France an education whose foundation is common. Finally, with regard to sport, Article 25 amends the framework for the exercise of sports associations and federations in order to ensure full respect for and promotion of the ethics of sport. It incorporates the Republican contract of engagement and specifies the place of federations in the promotion of the principles of the Republic and the protection of athletes. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon laughs]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I would like to recall that this bill is part of a more comprehensive effort to educate and empower our children. It is about protecting young minds from harmful influences and enabling them to grow and share the foundation of common values. In a word, it is a matter of making them, whatever their mode of instruction, enlightened, emancipated citizens, respectful of the principles of the Republic. In this, we join in the footsteps of the founding fathers of our school, first Jules Ferry. I hope that our discussions in the Chamber will allow us to continue this joint work in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u36	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter III of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u37	Articles 13 to 17, which I defend as thematic rapporteur, relate to the application abroad of the hereditary reserve, the strengthening of the fight against polygamy in the context of the issue of residence permits and the payment of survivor's pensions, the prohibition of virginity certificates and the strengthening of the fight against forced and fraudulent marriages. These articles fall under Chapter III, the title of which has been amended by the Special Commission. To the notion of the dignity of the human person, more ambivalent and covering divergent philosophical and ideological options – as highlighted by the reflection committee on the preamble of the Constitution chaired by Simone Veil in 2008 – we preferred those of respect for human rights and equality between women and men. It is indeed a matter of ensuring respect for the principles of freedom, equality, fraternity, citizenship and secularism. With regard to the provisions relating to the fight against polygamy, the Commission had explicitly provided that the situation of the spouse of an alien whose residence permit was withdrawn for polygamy should be examined individually. Indeed, the wife undergoes the polygamy of her spouse; She must not be the collateral victim. In addition, it seems to me essential that the associations provide enhanced support to the spouses of nationals in a state of polygamy, in order to help them in their efforts to emancipate. With regard to survivors' pensions, it was essential to renegotiate all international agreements which allowed for the pension of reversion shared among all wives in order to limit the exceptions. With regard to the prohibition of virginity certificates, the committee adopted an amendment penalizing the entourage of a young girl who would urge her to apply for such a certificate. We shall return to this subject when we consider Article 16b, because the Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment aimed at clarifying the wording and the quantum of the sentence. However, I want to say to you that we need to strike a fair balance between the need to combat these age-old, useless and unworthy customary practices and the protection of these young women from their entourage. In this regard, it is again up to the associations to play a fundamental role with them in order to avoid great difficulties. Finally, marriage must necessarily be based on the free and informed consent of the prospective spouses. This requires strengthening the means available to civil-state officers to verify that this is not a fraudulent or forced marriage. In order to effectively combat these marriages, I believe it is imperative that civil-state officers be trained to help them detect signs of non-consent from one of the spouses, and that they have a common framework to conduct the interview with the couple and then with each of the future spouses. It would be desirable for the Ministry of Justice and the Association of Mayors of France and Presidents of Intercommunality to jointly prepare a supporting document. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In short, the aim of this chapter is to strengthen freedom of expression, freedom of consent and freedom of conscience, equal rights, protection of women and support for the choice of life in accordance with the values of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u38	I call Mr Sacha Houlié, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters II and III of Title II and for Titles III and IV.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u39	"We do not ask that men think like us; But we want them to learn to think from themselves."These words are those of Nicolas de Condorcet in the Journal d'enseignement sociale which he wrote in 1793. Many years before the founding law of 1905 but well after the first edicts of tolerance, they set the course for public action: the freedom to think according to oneself is the guarantee of freedom of worship and we intend to preserve it. Freedom of thought for oneself is also the requirement of the public authorities to protect believers from pressures, deviousness and denaturation of religions. That is precisely the purpose of the provisions on the police of cults, which I report. Before specifying its content, I would like to state emphatically that this text does not in itself exhaust the debate on the fight against separatism. This struggle requires the structuring of the Islam of France; The charter of the principles of Islam is a first example of this. The exhaustion of the Community's backwardness also requires massive public action against social, geographical and school inequalities. ANRU, QPV, REP: all these acronyms – designating the National Agency for Urban Renewal, the priority neighbourhoods of city policy and the priority education networks – have received funding, but new proposals can still be made for equal opportunities. I will present it myself with many young colleagues because, faithful to the idea that the Republic is secular and social, we believe that it will remain secular as long as it is social. Nevertheless, the text we are looking at remains fundamental. He appointed difficulties and provided the State with the police powers necessary to combat the enemies of the Republic. No one before us did the same. As such, we have no eyes, but no scruples either. The measures we are looking at concern first of all the financing of cults. The administrative and accounting obligations of cultural associations are strengthened. Those of these foreign-funded structures will have the obligation to keep separate accounts and have them certified. The strengthening of the control of foreign financing of the cult is manifested above all by the obligation to declare all contributions above 10000 euros and by the creation of a right of opposition of the administration in case of serious threat to society. I want to be very clear: it is not a question of banning foreign financing, but of being able to control their source and prevent any interference.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u40	Ah! It's not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u41	We wondered whether it would be appropriate to extend this scheme to all associations. This obligation seems disproportionate to me. That is why Éric Poulliat and I will propose that you give the Prefect the power to question, on an ad hoc basis, in case of serious doubt, a non-cultural association about the origin of the funds that she collects from abroad. Jacques Maire's amendment will make it possible to complete this building by framing the sale of a place of worship to a foreign state, again in order to combat foreign influences. Without delay, we have already made sure that we give full effect to the opposition power granted to TRACFIN in transactions that may be linked to money laundering or terrorist financing. It is extended to all payment transactions, by cheque and by credit card. We have also worked on the responsibility of banks and the protection of their employees. The other set of measures concerns the cult police and aims to modernize the provisions of the 1905 Act which have become obsolete and to strengthen the penalties for certain cult-related offences. A new administrative closure of places of worship due to hate speech is being introduced. It fills a legal gap between the provisions of the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, the so-called SILT law, and the somewhat hypocritical application of the closure of places of worship on the basis of urban planning legislation concerning establishments receiving from the public. On the other hand, on my initiative, the special commission will have made it possible to clarify the cult police by aligning, in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of State, the penalties for incitement to hatred and discrimination with those of the Act of 1881: a single regime will now apply to ensure that the law is intelligible. The additional penalties for not appearing, known in other areas, will also be handed down in a more systematic manner when the offences were committed in connection with the cults. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, we must admit that the Republic is plural and that the 1905 law applies differently in different territories. We must respect the legacy of history. If the 1911 decree is intended to be repealed, we will perpetuate the arrangements that apply in Guyana since the Mandel decrees, as well as the derogations granted to Alsace-Moselle, the Pacific Islands and Mayotte. Secularism is a historical construction and this text will guarantee its legacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u42	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u43	Mr Eric Poulliat, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter II of Title I, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u44	The love of democracy is first and foremost a state of mind, wrote Pierre Mendès France. A few decades later, we must affirm that the love of the Republic requires evidence and action. As the President of the Republic recalled in his speech of the Walls, associations are a pillar of the republican pact; They even contribute to the realization of the republican promise by encouraging the emancipation of each and every one, protecting the most fragile and bringing to life the values and principles that make us what we are. However, it must be noted that many associations actually deploy assumed indoctrination strategies or are the target of separatism. Associations unite the nation and must not break it. The vast majority of them seek to respect the Republic and its principles; In return, they deserve our respect. It is to protect the associations and their special status in the Republic that they guarantee their freedom. Articles 6 to 8 are intended to ensure the observance of republican principles by associations, and to provide the public authorities with the means to stop the actions of an association that would seriously threaten public order and harm living together. First of all, they provide for the creation of a Republican contract of engagement, which must be undertaken by any association which receives a public subsidy or requests to benefit from it. The objective is simple and the minister delegate recalled: not a euro of public money should contribute to the financing of an association that would not respect the main principles of the Republic. Compliance will also be a new condition for obtaining approval. The Republican contract of engagement is not intended to dictate conduct to associations, but to draw the red lines whose crossing the Republic does not accept. The articles in question also provide for the addition of the regime of dissolution of association in order to make public action more effective in the face of associations that would seriously undermine the foundations of our life in society. Sections 9 to 12 are a second block on the financing of associations and, more generally, non-profit organizations. They are based on the idea that public money should not be used to finance separatist activities or contrary to the principles of the Republic. This is obvious, but it must be applied and reaffirmed without any exception. In order to do so, the text provides for the strengthening of controls over endowment funds and the possibility of suspending more easily funds that would carry out an activity contrary to the purpose for which they were created. It also provides for the strengthening of controls on organizations benefiting from grants eligible for tax reductions. Finally, it provides for the suspension of the tax benefits granted to agencies convicted of offences that pose a serious threat to society. During its work, the Special Commission adopted several amendments, in particular to Article 6. The principles of the Republican contract of engagement have been enriched and clarified, and implementing rules have been introduced, including the establishment of a duty to inform members of the content of the contract and the obligation to notify decisions to withdraw grants. In the course of the discussions, I will propose several amendments aimed at further refining the practical arrangements for the implementation of the Republican contract of engagement, with the aim of not overly coercing associations and public authorities. In Article 8, I will propose to introduce a ban on all leaders of a dissolved association from establishing or leading a new association. In Article 10, an amendment to clarify certain doubts raised by the voluntary sector will be removed. In section 11, I will propose a more dissuasive sanction for non-compliance with the reporting obligation imposed on organizations receiving donations. This sanction will, however, remain proportionate, and will only apply to associations which repeatedly persist in not declaring. I will also be defending, together with our colleague Sacha Houlié, measures to extend the provisions for the control of foreign financing to associations covered by the 1901 Act and to endowment funds. As Sacha Houlié has just indicated, this will strengthen the fight against attempts to interfere and avoid certain risks of hijacking the device. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, it is in no way a question of considering associations with no confidence, which I wish to solemnly salute for their participation in the fulfilment of the republican promise, but of combating those who use this beautiful democratic tool for separatist purposes, or of protecting us from it. Together, we must reaffirm the respect for republican principles in all territories; united, we can put back into the hearts of all French and French, the passion of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u45	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter I of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u46	The text we are going to discuss is the result of two observations: the rise in France of Islamist separatism, which is the expression of an organized and theorized political-religious project, and the inadequacy of our legal arsenal to fight against such a project in the various spheres of social life. The Government has taken the lead in countering the manifestations of this enterprise of subversion of our republican values, while avoiding stigmatizing the Muslim community; He chose to consider that religious neutrality and secularism, if they are applied firmly but in an inclusive manner, will be able to protect us from the project of Islamist domination: it is a choice shared by a large majority of national representation. For my part, I am convinced that the main measures contained in the text that we are going to discuss, which the Special Committee will usefully improve, are necessary; I hope, of course, that they will also be sufficient. Chapter I, which I have the honour to report, is devoted to the public service: do I have to specify how much it is dear to me, who has devoted forty years of my professional life to it? Article 1 of the bill enshrines the legislative extension of the application of the principles of equality, neutrality and secularism to public service delegates. Even if this is a simple transposition of the case law, it is pleased that these rules are now included in the law. Moreover, the article reinforces the effectiveness of these principles, ensuring that public persons have legal remedies to ensure that they are respected: everyone knows that an obligation whose non-compliance is not sanctioned has little scope. In my personal capacity, however, I regret that, because of the position of the Council of State, all those who participate in and contribute to the performance of the public service without being a public official are not subject to these principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u48	It seems to me that it is up to the legislator to decide this question, which concerns not only national education, but all public services: many amendments have been tabled to this effect, which will allow our House to debate this matter. A few comments on article 3, which deals with FIJAIT: whereas under the law, this national judicial register is intended to prevent the renewal of terrorist offences and to facilitate the identification of their perpetrators, the draft law has provided for the registration of convictions and charges relating to the two offences of apology of terrorism and incitement to terrorism. On this point, the Special Commission has strengthened the text, which now provides that persons convicted of these offences will be subject, as for other offences but for a shorter period of time, to the obligation to declare their address or address changes. Unless the scope of this article is limited, it would be regrettable to revert to this proposal: to link the apology of terrorism to freedom of expression on the grounds that it would be only an abuse, exceeds both my legal understanding and, I must admit, my political support. The apology of terrorism is not an offence of opinion, but an ordinary offence: this offence has its place in the Criminal Code, and not in the Press Freedom Act of 1881,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u50	...and I do not imagine that, on this point, the Constitutional Council may have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u52	Furthermore, with the support of the Chancery and the Ministry of the Interior, which I thank, the special commission took the fortunate initiative to propose that the administration and the public service delegates themselves be able to lodge a complaint when their agents or servants are subjected to threats or intimidation aimed at obtaining an exemption or differential treatment of the public service rule. If this is an exception to the principle that no one pleads per prosecutor, it is above all a strong signal to public service officials, whether they are public servants or employees of a delegated body. Every day in the front line, they have sometimes felt that they are alone in the face of the attacks against them: the Republic is with them, it defends and protects them. Finally, with the same objective of protecting national education personnel, the Special Commission has created an offence of obstructing the teaching function, in order to counter those who, in the classrooms, oppose the programmes enacted by the national education system. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] In the end, while respecting the spirit of the bill, the special commission strengthened its machinery on several important points.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u53	Mr François de Rugy, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u54	With more than 100 hours of work, our committee has worked extensively on this text – first more than fifty hours of hearings, then fifty-five hours to examine the articles and amendments – which, I must say, took place in serenity, although each one's position was clear. We first interviewed the various ministers concerned, of course, but also qualified personalities, philosophers, professors of law, observers of the evolution of our society and representatives of cultural organizations, communities, trade unions of employees or employers. Their testimony was useful to us when we had to look at the various articles of the text, and I think I can say that the hearings have given rise to a large number of amendments. I would remind you that 169 amendments have been adopted in committee, substantially amending the text. This bill was born out of the will to fight an evil that seeks to undermine the foundations of our republican pact. This evil, radical Islamism, bears two faces: that of separatism, which wants to establish a counter-society whose members would escape the common rule, and that of proselyte absolutism, which tries to subject the common rule to respect for religious dogmas. In my view, the text proposed to us responds to these two aspects of radical Islamism, and that is why I am pleased that the term "separatism", too narrow, has been removed from its title. Indeed, the purpose of the bill is less to combat what divides us than to strengthen what unites us: we act by remaining faithful to a major piece of legislation, the 1905 Act, which enacted rules and principles of general application. I have heard the criticisms of several of our colleagues, both in committee and in the media: they regret that the text we are looking at does not refer more explicitly to radical Islamism, or that it does not specifically address Islam. I invite them to re-read the 1905 law: everyone knows that it was trying to resolve a conflict between the state and the Catholic Church, which dates back to the French Revolution. The confrontation had been particularly murderous,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u55	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u56	... especially in the region where I am elected – in Nantes, in particular: believe me, the memory of the Vendée wars was still alive, not so long ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u57	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u58	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u59	Yet, despite this context, the word "Catholicism" does not appear in the 1905 law, whose articles dealt with the separation of goods and means between the Republic and what has long been a state religion in our country. The reason is simple: the law sought to define a common rule valid for all. The Republic sets the framework within which beliefs can be practiced, not the other way round. In our turn, that is what we are about to do. Neutrality of public service agents, including when it is provided by private companies or employees, new means made available to the State and local authorities to guarantee respect for republican values by subsidized associations, fight against online hatred: the text deals with very concrete subjects, which in fact go beyond the simple challenge of Islamism to the Republic, and may concern other forms of separatism, other attempts or temptations to evade the common rule or the observance of rules which we will now discuss in plenary, as we have already done in committee. From the hearings we have conducted in committee, I note that the question of the constitutionalization of secularism is still pending: not that it is to include in our fundamental text the secular character of our Republic – it is already clearly expressed – but to clarify secularism, to give it, in a way, a definition – a bit like the need to be more explicit about the need for the Republic to act to combat global warming, even though the environmental charter already has constitutional value. Will the Law Commission ever have to clarify the fact that the Republic knows only the national community, and that no one can exonerate himself or anyone else from complying with the common rule on the grounds of a claim to belong to any community? These questions are legitimate, and I feel that one day they will come to Parliament. But it is not the debate we are dealing with today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The debates we are dealing with are both more prosaic, and probably more complex, because they affect everyday life and the functioning of public services, associations and cults. I can only hope that we will debate in committee as calmly as in committee, and I hope that the defence of the Republic will bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u60	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u61	It is certainly an important text that the one we are debating and, thanks to it, history has already begun to progress in our country. I will tell you why, in a moment's time, but I would like to say that you were right, Mr. Minister of the Interior, to convene history, as did the speakers who spoke after you. But history, if it is a science that spreads and shows the facts, it never tells us what to think of it. It's normal: it's not his role, which is to be a narrative. However, our choice of the thread in history determines our opinions: if now the whole political arc is republican, it was not always the same! No one on these benches sits to defend royalty or I don't know any other dictatorship, and it's happy. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So we talk between Republicans: that's why I will try to make my responses less offensive than those I could hear against me or my friends. No, Minister of the Interior, I am not naive, but the law you are proposing is partly useless, because repeating what already exists, and dangerous as to the rest, because it threatens freedom. Above all, it opens the door to what we know only too much, to the flood of deeply damaging comments to the unity of the homeland, which counts 5 or 6 million Muslims – our compatriots, our parents often, our allies always. Already, I repeat, we have heard too much. This text has changed its title several times; Of course, he never met the good, I hear the one who would have corresponded to the spirit of the laws as we knew him so far. Separatism does not exist, at least not as a legal concept. We therefore come to a bill "consolidating respect for the principles of the Republic". A principle is a way of organizing relations between events and decisions. All right: what republican principles are they? There's only three of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u62	You confuse principles and values!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u63	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Freedom, or rather freedoms, will be reduced after the adoption of this text. Many associations have already expressed themselves on this subject: on them there is not only the threat of a suspension, but also that of I do not know what republican oath, absurd as well as dangerous, because on the one hand its letter will inevitably be ridiculous and, on the other hand, it is tantamount to imposing on the French a allegiance from which they had been dispensed until then. The Republic does not need to be sworn in, but to respect its laws, and if they are not good, they are changed. There is nothing in the legislation that is against the objectives you claim to pursue, particularly in the fight against terrorism. On the other hand, in the light of what we will undoubtedly hear in this House over the next fifteen days, let me say that neither will fraternity have taken a major step, particularly towards Muslims. Nevertheless, you can be attributed a huge success: representatives of all religions agree that your bill threatens them. I have read with the same pleasure as all those who know the history of our country this extraordinary declaration of the Conference of Bishops of France – listen carefully, socialists and communists, it is our apotheosis –: "The law of 1905 is a law of freedom". What did they say then? "It risks, with this bill, being transformed into a law of control, police and repression. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u64	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u65	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It's an event! In 1906, the Encyclical Vehementer prescribed us to disobey the law of 1905, which, among other things, removed crucifixes from the courts and no longer exempted priests from military service. In 1895, the pope claimed to cure France by universal suffrage, this disease consisting of placing the will of the people above that of God. In the face of such a change, in which the influence of the encyclicals Fratelli tutti and Laudato is discerned, I want to express here our emotion and gratitude to the representatives of the Catholic faith: they have taken a great step in the direction that brings us together, brings us closer. [[Same movements]] The Protestant Federation of France is not left behind: "The aim is to make the 1905 law attractive, and we monitor it, we crack it, we control it. On many critical points, it joins Jews, Muslims and Catholics. As for the president of the Central Israelite Consistory of France, he declared: "I am not sure that it is by regulating excessive worship that we fight terrorism." It is time to recall what the law of 1905 and secularism are, that we put a little to all modes, to all sauces. As political orientations emanating from the depths of France's history, they mean the separation of politics and religion; at the institutional level, that of the Churches and the State; Under no circumstances is a state atheism. Every time we tried here and there in the world, including in France, to establish such an atheism, to gradually scratch all the texts of religions, it was to embark on the path of civil war and violence. Freedom of conscience can only be fully respected if the religious debate is separated absolutely, radically, from the civil and political debate: that is the basis of our action, that is what is contained in the 1905 law. That is why, in addition to the sixteen anti-terrorist laws passed in thirty years, there was no need to add one, with an unheard-of pretension to search the earth from which terrorism appears to be emerging. This earth, I will name it to you: it is the human spirit! All times have had their fanatics, their terrorists, violent people, people who want to be singular and who, by destroying everything, believed themselves to be remarkable. I can see Minister Blanquer laughing: it's a good joke. No doubt he remembers Erostrate, who, to be known, set fire to one of the seven wonders of the world. It is not today, again, that we meet such individuals. Often, the reason is that we want to distinguish between each other. When a notorious drug addict, who did not observe Ramadan, which took place eight days earlier, took the wheel of a truck and assassinated nearly 90 people in Nice, it was immediately referred to as radicalization, Islamism. I think he was crazy to bind! Such an act goes beyond the most elementary reflexes of human reason! On the other hand, when a man takes a gun to shoot at members of the Muslim community coming out of the Bayonne mosque, everyone says that the author of the facts is a fool – which is undeniable – and although this man was a candidate for the National Rally in the 2015 departmental elections, no one is thinking of imputing this act to the National Rally! I don't blame him either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u66	Fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u67	Why double standards? We ourselves believe that we should have something else to do over the next fifteen days, rather than to be riveted on our benches, as well as three ministers and one minister delegated, to discuss these issues. The last time this happened, there were in this country three cases of covid -19; You invented a debate on pensions that mobilized us here, night and day, until you decided to use article 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u68	And it's not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u69	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since then, there have been 3 million covid patients -19, 75,000 dead and 145,000 contaminated people since last week. We will spend 15 days weighing the possibility of a link between a religion and terrorist practices. We will refer to the wearing of the headscarf by public service delegates, a case settled by case law since 2013. Weather France announces that by the end of the century, if our greenhouse gas emissions continue at the same rate, the temperature will have increased by 6°C, making all current modes of operation impossible; We are going to talk about polygamy – not even the three-party parties, which Mrs Schiappa assures on the radio, please, that they are not threatened by these provisions. However, polygamy is already covered by article 433-20 of the Criminal Code! There are 800 social plans in this country; We, you see, will debate virginity certificates, a practice that the Order of Physicians forbids its members! There are 10 million poor, and how many hungry among them? We will discuss the menus of school canteens. Certainly, no one would complain that there is never meat there on Fridays, if everyone could have fish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u70	In this case, what a boil!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u71	There's no need to scream: it doesn't intimidate me at least. You are exhausted for nothing, especially since most of you do not know how to scream and breathe at the same time; You're gonna give us a cardiac arrest! Gas, electricity and toll rates are rising; we, we will address the issue of mixing in municipal swimming pools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u72	So, do you mind?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u73	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u74	Food aid covers 8 million people; But we will look at the Republican contract of engagement, which will also cover with ridicule those who propose it. Will you implore all associations in France, from the philatelists to the athletes, to swear fidelity to the constitutional bloc...,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u76	...that you will do yourself a duty to teach them? Otherwise, what will they have to make allegiance to? To a text written by whom, how? Perhaps to the very one whose examination we are starting, in other words to a document of total political infantilization? To take an oath, what a funny idea, both ridiculous and useless! Article 89 of the Constitution states: "The republican form of government shall not be subject to revision. That is why we are quite capable of supporting royalist parties, which have never been banned: the republican form of the state will remain as long as we are there, on these benches or in the middle of the population, expressing our political opinions. Article 3 of the Law of 9 July 1901 on the contract of association reads as follows: "Any association based on a cause or with a view to an unlawful object, contrary to the laws, morals, or which is intended to undermine the integrity of the national territory and the republican form of the Government, shall be null and void. » No need for oath: everything is written; What you want to crack down on is already. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] However, we are not so naive as to believe that there is no separatism in this country. It is violent, aggressive: it is the social separatism, that of the French who take refuge abroad to flee the tax system, who organize the construction of their housing so as not to burden themselves with compatriots in need. In the 8th arrondissement of Marseille, half of the dwellings are in closed private residences; Let me call it separatism. Private schools often include a well-typed population, selected from its income. There is de facto religious separatism, which has persisted since our territory was liberated from the German occupier: that of Alsace-Moselle, where the political arrangements of the exit from the war had decided not to touch the concordat. I am not talking about Alsatian social law, which I would gladly propose to extend to the rest of France, because it is much better than the one that applies to it, but about this agreement, which guarantees to three cults that their ministers will be taken over by the State, to which it costs 60 million euros a year. Added to this is the religious status of Guyana. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There is a communal separatism, which drapes in great words in order to proclaim or claim special rights for a part of the population. It is for example that of this organisation considered terrorist by most European states, but which you never wanted to dissolve, the so-called Jewish Defence League, which expelled us from the white march in memory of Mrs Mireille Knoll, the victim of anti-Semitism. We responded to the call of the National Assembly; The police must have exfiled us from the procession, us and our tricolor scarves! No one has ever been convicted for having so hardened our republican freedom! There is institutional separatism, that of the European regions, provided for by the Treaty of Aachen. This is the one you will soon introduce into the law: the right to differentiation. The chairman of the committee, who aptly apologies traitors to the homeland, laughs when I speak of the difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u77	She's the best! I talked about painful memory, don't transform my words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u78	You quote the caulianry by pretending to forget that they are traitors to the homeland: they waited, on the beaches, for the others to invade us. We don't forget it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u79	Go on, Mr. Mélenchon. A little silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u80	The least respect for the republican homeland is not to ask for history in the opposite direction. The draft organic law on the right to differentiation will therefore allow for the coexistence of different rules and rights in different regions. Yet you have repeated ten times that the only community you recognize is the national community! But the national community is that of the law one and indivisible! It is because the law is one and indivisible and it is decided by all, even by those who are minorities, that we all accept that it is applied to us! That is the basic rule of democracy. Differentiation is a counter-republican invention, and that is where there is indeed institutional separatism! I don't know if that's the point we're diverging about, but we need to look closely at it. There are lessons to be learned from the history of France. Even though my interpretation may be wrong, I seek at least to make it known, so that we do not imagine that there is only one truth, one interpretation. You quoted Philippe Le Bel, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u81	That's right; He couldn't come!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u82	You did the right thing. Pope Boniface VIII claimed that, since he commanded the spiritual, he also commanded temporally, which gave him the right to collect a tax in France. The king opposed it – I'm not going to tell you the whole story – and it ended badly for the pope, who, poor man, eventually died in fear on a day when he was assailed by the king's representatives and by various Italian factions. The pope was obviously wrong, and the king of France was obviously right, but he was from a religious point of view. This does not exhaust the question that was asked, for if the one who commands the spiritual does not have the right, in the republic, to command the temporal, the other the one who commands the temporal does not have the right to decide spiritually.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u83	We don't get involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u84	The strict separation between the State and religions is the condition of the unity of the country. The strength and temptation of force have always existed, but they are a mistake. He who tells you this is an admirer of the great Revolution of 1789, who made the mistake of trying to make swear an oath of fidelity to the Republic to people who, in any case, would never agree with it and organized against it – not because of this oath, but because of all the social reasons that led them to this position. This is a memory that must never be removed from our memory. There is no point in political power trying to organize religions. To say this does not amount to expressing sympathy for one religion or another as philosophical or spiritual content; That is to say what history has taught us. But if she has taught us, and we have already paid enough for this teaching, let us not start again in our way – more tempered, I agree – the king's mistake in deciding that he would convert everyone by force to Christianity, which led to dragonnades and incessant wars against Protestants. Before them, it was the Jews who, for a thousand years, had been persecuted in our country. Yes, a thousand years, perfectly! In Toulouse, they even had one day to redeem the right not to be slapped once a year. They had previously been expelled twelve times from the kingdom of France by the kings! And the one you call Saint Louis – I wonder why – that is, Louis IX, was the first to impose on them the distinctive sign of the roll and to burn copies of the Talmud – and not copies of the Thora as I had been pointed out one day, while I was mistaken. That's the big deal. Whether you burn copies of the Talmud or the Thora is also unbearable! All this is in the history of France. No one's guilty on these benches. The story is there, unfolded before our eyes. What do we choose to do, what lessons do we learn from it? These are the questions we must ask ourselves, in this forum and elsewhere. Take the example of the scarf, which seems to obsess a large part of you. The scarf would be a symbol of submission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u85	Occurrence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u86	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Admit it; Why not? It's an opinion, it's not... Of course, but, Madam Member, the atheistic words look at those who speak them. In Christianity, and in the work of St Paul in particular, the veil – which he recommends to Christians to wear – is a sign of submission to man, which is never said in other religions. In the same way, Tertullian, one of the founding fathers of the Christian church, says that not veiling oneself is prostitution. Let us remember in modesty before going to teach everyone! Whatever it is, I admit that one can consider wearing, or forcing someone to wear a scarf, an unbearable sign of submission. Either, but in this case, we have to fight it ideologically! In the same way that no religion will ever be banned, because this would be absurd – and I do not think you intend to do so – we will never decide on a clothing police that will ridicule us because it is the inverted image of the clothing police that the Islamic Republic of Iran applies. Some want to force them to wear a veil, others want to force them not to wear a veil: all this is absurd! It is necessary to allow things to be done and to distinguish carefully the case of the public service official, who, because the public service is open to all, must in fact show absolute neutrality and distance to any religion or political party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u88	It is quite different from the public space which is, precisely, public! This is where we go and come as we hear it. Are we going to cover ourselves with ridicule by choosing the color of the hair, the length of the skirts or what else do I know? All this is absurd! If you want to combat certain behaviors, you must give yourself the political means, the means of action and conviction, and not introduce absurd prohibitions that no one will want to apply afterwards. [[Smile on the benches of ministers]] I was able to see what it was like with the full veil, when I was alone protesting that someone was carrying it in a train station. There were four policemen there – it was four or five years ago, Mr Darmanin, you have nothing to do with it! I reminded them that the wearing of this veil was illegal, asking them to come and help me, but they told me that they were only four. So we were five in total, and they thought it was not enough! Of course, I did not stop there and explained to the person concerned why, after everything we had done, I could not accept that we would appear in the public space thus clothed. Indeed, there are only two prohibitions of clothing: full veil and nudity. Nothing else! All the other debates are only digressions that will lead us nowhere. It's time to remember that if we start to crack down on some clothes... [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm glad to see that all this amuses you a lot. Of course, it's normal, I understand: you're funny! I assure you, honourable Members, that it is something to see! They don't care – which is not your case. We talk, we explain, we give arguments, and it makes us laugh on the bench of ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u89	It's the Laughing Police!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u90	That's where we are! It's never been seen before! A minister had already offered to get us out of the room; Now we see some who are hilarious. Under the Third Republic, applause on the bench of ministers was considered a coup d'état! This confusion leads you to mix everything – opinions and criminal acts. You'll never stop condemning the clothes. Are you going to condemn the nuns who walk through the streets, the sutanes of those who wear them, the Roman pass, the kippa? Do you know that all these issues were discussed in 1905? The most committed – I was going to say angry, but I don't want to insult the memory of mine – pretended to prohibit the wearing of soutane on the street, considering it to be a provocative attitude. Briand and the others replied that we would see later, because that was not the question of the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u91	Read Aristide Briand again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u92	That is why, when we look at history and its continuity, it is the ruptures that have meaning that must be sought. The question of the distinction between acts and opinions does not date from today. I found the trace of it in an intervention by the Protestant Chancellor of the King of France, Michel de L'Hospital, who, as you know, was then, because of his faith, hurled out of his window after having received a shot of abalonete and having been stabbed, on the night of the Saint Bartholomew. This Protestant thinker, loyal servant of the homeland, said in 1562: "The king does not want you to enter into a dispute which opinion is the best because it is not a question of constitunda religion but of constitunda respublica; Even the excommunicated never ceases to be a citizen." This means that what was a matter of religious opinion could not have been transposed to the secular arm. Instead of cutting between the authority and the secular arm, you are going to do the opposite: after having asked some – imams, individuals, associations – to take oaths of any kind, you will find yourself confronted with all those who refuse to do so. In the name of what are you going to crack them down and sue them? This is absurd; It doesn't work like that! Acts must continue to be punished, not intentions or opinions. Never once in France were sects prosecuted for anything other than the acts they committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u93	That's not the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u94	That is why the horrific practice of wanting to impose the way in which religion is to be practised, in hiding or in public, has resulted in ill-treatment of Jews, which I mentioned earlier, but also against Protestants. This is the time to also evoke the memory of mine, if I may say so, and of a few others here on all benches: the unbelievers, Vanini, Giordano Bruno, the knight of La Barre, the ridicule of the burnt books of d'Holbach, the abomination of the martyrdom of the unsubmissive women, called witches and many to have been burned because they did not correspond to the idea of the woman. I am sure you will agree with me on all these points of history. But then it is necessary to prolong the lesson, to gather the sip of it to know how to avoid the mistakes that would put us in a worse situation than the one from which we left. Only separation allows the unity and freedom of the French people. The State is neither neutral, tolerant, nor egalitarian towards religions: it is indifferent, it does not deal with it! The 1905 law affirms that the Republic does not recognize nor do it make any worship. The State is indifferent to religion and this indifference is not a cruelty but on the contrary the guarantee of freedom. In order to reach this stage it has been necessary, throughout history, to continually separate everything that in the essential acts of the existence of human beings could oppose each other, until the coronation of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, instituting a revolution that was not carried out for a people, but for all human beings. Thus the Revolution of 1789 detached the civil status, the civil marriage and the right to divorce from the religious institution which made it irreversible sacraments. It was thus – as you said, minister – that it was through the school that it all began, with the report presented at the assembly gallery in 1793 by Robespierre, reading the text of Saint-Fargeau who had been murdered by the royalists. It was, of course, on 21 February 1795 that the first regime for the separation of churches and the State was instituted. It is then necessary to wait until the Commune of Paris, on 3 April, for such a separation to be pronounced again. As for the Third Republic, it made another tactical choice which, for my part, I approve: it was right, in view of the circumstances, to consider that the Republic would be all the better accepted as it would break with a certain form of exalted practice which had harmed it – but it was inevitable – at the time of its birth. And it was only ten years after the Republic was indeed voted by Parliament, on an amendment and with one vote, that the law of separation of churches and the State was introduced. It is in this spirit that we must continue to draw inspiration at all points, and we will demonstrate, clause by clause, that your bill is in fact concordatious, in addition to being liberticide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u95	That's a good one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u96	You complained earlier, Minister of Justice, that you had heard more of the word "liberticide" in six months of chancery than before: ask yourself if there is any reason for it, and if you do not deserve it. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the meantime, I want to tell you by going to my conclusion...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u97	We were getting used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u98	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...something that concerns our Muslim compatriots. Do not turn around the pot: through the trials of intent, the way to designate, the unlikely amalgam between Islam and Islamism, and between Islamism and terrorism...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u99	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let President Mélenchon continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u100	[[Same movements]] Yes, yes, that's it, continue; This will not change the truth. Millions of people in this country know what to do and who they owe it to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u101	Come on, Melenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u102	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u103	Please let the speaker continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u104	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Stop glapir, it's unbearable! And if you don't want the motion, you will say it by voting, as you usually do, with the whistle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u105	Who said "The Republic is me"?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u106	Now is the time for me to remind you of some lessons from history. The colonizers thought they had made a great finding: to postpone the application of the law of 1905 in Algeria by ten years; Then, from ten years to ten, it was constantly postponed. Then, of course, the government of the traitors, around Philippe Pétain, decided definitely not to apply it: they considered that by controlling the religious leaders, they would watch the population. But it didn't happen that way. And I have noted with interest that the 1956 Summam Congress does not include any reference to Islam as defining the Algerian people. So it was, in a way, by turning to the foundations of the law of 1905 that this people formed as a people. Now, I want in my own way, since it has to be done, expressing only my point of view, that of my friends, and no doubt many others on these benches, ask a question: when did Muslims miss France? One day, one day, one date, one fact! At the time of the landing in Provence, when they formed half of the troops present? At the time of the assault on Notre-Dame-de-la-Garde to expel the Nazis who were there, who made up half of the soldiers killed? In Monte Cassino, when Senegalese and Algerian tirailers, Moroccan tabors fought under the tricolor flag?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u107	But stop him! All the sterile amalgams!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u108	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] When did they miss the homeland? When they were there to build it with their hands, when they picked up his trash and carried his patients?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u109	Amalgamation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u110	And now, engineers, doctors, the glory of teaching and life in common, do they have to feel the shame of being fingered by you again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u111	That's a bunch of amalgams.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u112	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's unbearable! I adjure you to understand that France is not being built against a part of those who make up it. Ah, you can scream, it won't change anything at the bottom of the case! Did they even miss France when there were terrorist attacks? No! Remember the rectors of the three mosques saying that all this had nothing to do with Islam. For my part, I will never accuse a single Catholic of being responsible for the massacre that allegedly took place in the name of the Catholic faith in Norway. Enough of these permanent references to one religion brandished by these white supremacists! France is big because it makes France of all wood! France is big because it takes its children as they are, because it does not ask them what they think, because it recognizes their complete freedom. It only asks them to put themselves at the service of the common good and to respect the laws that it has decided for it. And they do! [[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] So, what's that mash of amalgams?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u113	You're the one making boils!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u114	Listen to me, colleagues! Do you believe that humanism, which is the basis of our culture, of the Renaissance, of all that we have built with the century of the Enlightenment and after it, would have been possible without mutazilist Islam? It not only allowed us to preserve the ancient texts by translating them, but it also proclaimed this thing which seemed very curious and purely ritual: that good and evil were not the work of God but that of men, so much so that, for the first time, the principle of the absolute responsibility of the human being on his own development was instituted, the starting point of the treatise of the dignity of the man of Pic de la Mirandole. There is no renaissance possible, no humanism possible in Europe without this root that lies in Islam, whether it pleases or not. Human thought travels through the many ways open to it. In the same way, universalism is to a large extent a child of Catholic thought, since "Catholic" means precisely "universal". History is made of continuity, and I do not deny it; It's the breakups that make sense. And it is to these ruptures that we must be faithful at this moment. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I asked how many times the Muslims had missed France, I could also have asked how many times the French governments had missed them. Let's think of all these chippings with the chibanis, so old, so tired, forced to stay in France a few months a year, away from their families, simply to be able to reach their retirement and to discuss the level of their pensions. Let us remember that when believers were shot out of the Bayonne mosque, no government official moved. Well, I say again in front of the National Assembly, on behalf of all my unsubmissive comrades, that I am proud to have participated, with the CGT, with the FSU, with ATTAC, with the Ligue des droits de l'homme, in the demonstration of November 10, 2019, a demonstration of fraternity of the French people that ended with a vibrant "Marseillaise"! So, of course, they're going to talk to me about some kind of energy. But that doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u115	Of course! That's never gonna matter to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u116	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I myself will refrain from mentioning the presence of such or such energism to characterize the march that took place in homage to Mireille Knoll! It is necessary to constantly seek out from the French people what can bring it together. I say again, I did well to participate in this demonstration, and how many others with me, girded with their scarf. People came, touched us and told us that we were right to be there, with them, and together we sang "La Marseillaise", the anthem of the Republican homeland and nothing else! That's what you need to hear. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] My conclusion is in a few words. This text is of no use; This text is dangerous. And I'm warning you. I would admit your sincerity, but I think we are paying too high a price, that of unity itself. No, the paths of reason do not open to falsehood. No, the door of the universal doesn't open with kicks. No, the love of the Republic, like any love, is worth nothing under threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u117	Sad show!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u118	Thank you, President Mélenchon, for quoting Michel de L'Hospital, whose statue stands before the colonnade of the Bourbon Palace, alongside those of Aguesseau, Sully and Colbert, who are also part of our history. The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u119	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon protested]] President Mélenchon spoke, in moving terms, of the many Muslims who wore the uniform of the Republic, still faithful to the oath they had given him, in particular those who died in Monte Cassino. I cannot claim the same objectivity, as the character incarnated by Jean Gabin in The President said in the same Chamber. You say, Mr. President Mélenchon, that we insult their memory, and this reproach particularly affects me. You're talking about millions of men, including my grandfather. He prayed to Allah, and he loved the Republic. Where are the demons you denounce, except in your own head? You have lost the thread – the red thread, even – of your own thought. You would have been more powerful, more effective, more sensitive too, if you had followed the work of the special commission. We exchanged with Mr Corbière, whose ideas we of course respect deeply, during a Republican debate that lasted fifty-five hours: there was no insult to fraternity, no insult to our compatriots, no insult to religions. But to know that, we still had to be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u120	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Why don't you just give me some arguments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u121	Mrs. Panot, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u122	Only two members of our group could participate in the special commission! That's enough with your methods!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u123	Perhaps, Mr. President Mélenchon, you would have been more specific. That would have prevented you from saying nonsense – and what nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u124	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You don't have the right to talk to me like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u125	Please, my dear colleague. Please proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u126	[[Laughs and applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Mélenchon, I know that the Republic is you, but let me represent it for a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u127	The show halls have reopened, apparently!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u128	Showing your democratic generosity, you say that such a royalist association must continue to live. Of course! That is what we have always said and will continue to say during the debates in the House, in which we are very happy to participate with you for 15 days, since you predict that this will be their duration. Nowhere is it written that we want to suppress such or such association, nowhere! What amazes me in your speech is that you say that it is not for the Republic to say how to worship and how to pray. Of course! Nowhere do we say what a minister of worship is or what he must say; nowhere do we define what a cult is. Public order must apply to this religion, which is Islam as well as to all other religions. This motion will have taught us something interesting: you are now the spokesman for clericalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u129	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon protested]] We wouldn't have believed it. It took a beautiful political Copernician revolution for you to wish that all the texts proposed by the Government and the majority would be indignant and that you would come to betray the positions that you once defended with such ardour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u131	It's a girouette!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u132	Mr Mélenchon, obviously, it has been a long time since you thought that religion is the opium of the people – which I personally never thought of. In the artificial paradise of your ideas, you come to be a little fuzzy in your demonstrations. This bill merely reinforces the principles of the Republic and secularism. In the history of France...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u133	You're not answering anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u134	You're an ignorant man!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u135	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] I have listened to Mr Mélenchon in silence and regret the way he refers to certain provisions. Our exchange, it seems to me, could be republican. Perhaps the most democratic and republican is the one who, after listening to the other, gets insulted, sometimes with vulgarity, I dare say. You, you do not suffer for a moment that an argument contrary to your ideas can be invoked before national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u136	You didn't make any argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u137	I'll tell you what I'm inspired by your comments that brought history together. It is true that in 1905 the cults were not in favour of the law of separation of churches and the state – it is a scoop! Worshipes were not in favour of any legislation on this subject. We listen to them, we take into account their difficulties and fears: we have made corrections and are still ready to do so. But we do not forget the essential: it is the law of the Republic that imposes itself on the cults, the believers, and that is how it is, because it is the very principle of what we want. No doubt, proud of your performance, do not listen to me again, Mr. Mélenchon. Everyone expected Mr. Jaurès to support Mr. Allard against Mr. Briand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u138	Mind your own business!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u139	The coherence of socialist thought prompted the left to support Mr Briand, for he had a liberal but firm vision of the separation of churches and the state. No one, then, has bragged, as some can do today, in ease, denunciation or leftism. It's a shame you chose Mr. Allard's camp, on the other hand. What was left was not the demonstration...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u140	You're a little gentleman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u141	[[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens]] Why be so insulting? Why be so insulting when I tell you there's an irony of history? It is about defending secularism and asserting that the law is stronger than the cults. We address all our fellow citizens, regardless of their religion. We must not count Muslims by millions, as you do, but address them as individuals, because we address all our fellow citizens, regardless of their religion. What you see in this text is, as in the cave allegory, your fantasies. In reality, this text protects all our fellow citizens, and it is far from the electoral calculations you seem to be doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u142	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u143	Mr Mélenchon, I confess that before you defended your motion of rejection before I thought that there was still a chance for you to bring your voice to the defence of the principles of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u144	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u145	... a loud voice, because you've used us to talking about a strong way, a demanding voice. I even thought you'd want to bid, drawing on the sources of your left-wing, republican and secular commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u146	It's over! That was a long time ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u147	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] But I didn't find any of this. Until the end of your speech, however, I hoped that you would defend secularism, but instead you preferred to put forward this terrible manifestation in which you proudly claimed to have participated as it sought to oppose the French on religious grounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u148	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u149	It is only you, Mr Mélenchon, not to see, in France as in many other countries of the world, the rise of communalism; There is only you not to see the rise of the contestation of the principles of the Republic and secularism, which we often find in other countries of the world confronted with the same phenomena. I thought you were attached to it, but neither did I hear it in your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u150	It's never too late, Mr. Mélenchon, to work with us! Two Members of your group, members of the special committee, did so and defended their convictions by tabling amendments. In fact, I felt, at a minimum, nuances between what they said in committee and what you just said in the gallery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u151	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u152	This can happen in all groups, of course. However, I heard Mr Corbière say that we had to look at reality in the face, that of his election department, for example, or that of the constituencies of other colleagues, throughout the country, who see France as it is now desorbing and see that the secularism and values of the Republic are called into question by communalism, by those who contest the common rule on the basis of religious precepts. It is only you, Mr Mélenchon, who do not see it and who do not want to defend the secularism "shield", the one that protects us French, against these attacks and the attack on freedom: freedom to believe or not to believe, freedom to practise any religion, but also to leave it to become an atheist or to join another religion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u153	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u154	Moreover, the work carried out by the associations of the French Council of Muslim Worship shows the progress achieved in this area, precisely thanks to the defence, to which we are working, of the values of the Republic. Unfortunately, Mr. Mélenchon, your motion to reject it is well known: it is a prior rejection. Whatever happens, whatever we do, whatever we propose, you'll always be in rejection!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u155	We have the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to go straight into this debate and to reject without hesitation the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u157	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. I would remind you that each group can speak for as long as it wishes, on the understanding that the duration of its speech will be reduced by its speaking time; which means that he will be able to miss it at the end if he does too much at the beginning... Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u158	There are days when we would be inclined, because of his verve and his persuasion, to follow the logic of President Mélenchon. But there are days, like this one, when this is not the case. Of course, we can discuss, doubt, discuss the conditions under which a public service delegate must adhere to the principles of neutrality and secularism in the performance of his or her mission; We can also discuss how the separatism offence provided for by the mechanism we are thinking about will apply. In the same way, we will have to determine the conditions under which associations that receive public funding will have to sign a Republican commitment contract, the terms of which will be specified. We can still discuss the fight against hatred on the Internet or how cultural associations will be better controlled, subject to a binding right, through a mechanism that we must build, all together. But there are things we can't discuss. The Group of the European People's Party considers that this bill comes to crown, to partition, to lay a new pillar on the policy pursued since the beginning of the legislature and which finds an overall logic. Moreover, it was the French who asked and called for these measures of their wishes! They did so by choosing the presidential program, they still do so during the chaumière discussions that we are attending, Mr.President Mélenchon, in our respective constituencies. They would have us historically responsible for ignoring the mistakes of the past. Finally, the other reason why this text deserves special consideration is that it simply reaches its target. We have to deal with behaviors that are increasingly difficult to evaluate, to gauge in terms of history; a part of the company is about to detach itself. The bill, without sacrificing generality and absolutism, tries to point the finger at several practices to marginalize them. In order to advance our positions, our duty as political leaders towards the people who have given us the honour of electing us is to examine in detail the proposals put forward to us in order to try to improve them. Finally, I would like to quote an author who is familiar with you, Mr Mélenchon: Jürgen Habermas said that the continuing trace of humanity is never to take into account the mistakes she has made in the past. Precisely, the text we are looking at today should allow us to avoid mistakes made in the past, tragedies that we have not been able to avoid, because we do not want to look at them. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the group LaREM]] That is why our group, very much in favour of discussing this text, will oppose the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u159	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u160	It would have been pleasant to reply to Mr Mélenchon on several points, but you pointed out, Mr President, that this intervention would reduce our ability to argue on our own proposals. So I will be shorter than I would have wished. Although many of his findings can be shared, others are most questionable. The first is to say that there is no need for debate. As if, in French society, this debate did not exist and did not already involve our fellow citizens! As if, sometimes, through the permanent information channels, through the exaggerated expressions of each other, this debate was not diverted or sent back to paths of thought that I wish to fight! And it is here, in the beating heart of democracy, that we must fight them, by debating in the Chamber. In fact, I did not like to hear you take up the fifty-five hours of discussion in a special committee. This is the least we can do given the extent of the laws to which we are affected – starting with the one of 1905, which had taken much more than fifty-five hours when it was drafted! Our group believes that there is a need for debate. We even think that there would have been much more to debate: Article 45 of the Constitution has been applied so strictly, not to say excessive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u161	Yes! Hundreds of amendments have thus been declared inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u162	... that certain subjects, which would have reinforced republican principles, will not be addressed in this House. So, please, Mr. Mélenchon, do not prevent us from approaching at least those who may actually be here. Finally, it cannot be said that strengthening the principle of secularity in the public service, reaffirming the need to combat online hatred or violations of women's rights – even if they were already enshrined in the law, makes it possible to make it more effective and strengthen it – would be useless. There is indeed a matter for debate. But, as I also say, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we believe that this law should not be a law of proclamation without programming; Several principles are established, measures are strengthened, but what will count will be the effective application of the law on the ground, in particular in its prevention component – unfortunately absent from this text – or the ability to exercise the controls that we wish to establish. This will be the subject of future discussions. As you can see, the independent IDU group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u163	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u164	Your bill has changed its name several times, as you have difficulty justifying its usefulness and consistency. Let us start with what it is not: this text is not useful against terrorist acts because, as we all know, fighting against their perpetrators is primarily a matter of means and intelligence – we would probably have looked at it with more interest, if not, given that, while they shelter themselves behind jihadism or supremacy, they have often targeted our political family, rightly considering us as their determined opponents. You admit it from the outset of your impact study: "It is useful to make it clear from the outset that the phenomenon referred to here is not terrorism [but] separatist ambitions." Emmanuel Macron confirmed this in his speech of October 2, 2020; You did the same, Mr Darmanin, by decreeing, in a state of health emergency, that the separatist danger was such that it threatened the Republic, without ever having demonstrated it concretely, quantified, including in your impact assessment. You never argued on the merits. No more than you have just done, Monsieur de Rugy, by responding to Jean-Luc Mélenchon in a caricatural, political, insulting and deceitful way...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u165	It's the world upside down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u166	... by obviously drawing from Mr. Zemmour's diatribes your vision of France. Rather than mobilize us against the poverty that ravages our country, you place a rotten debate that divides and discriminates a particular religion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u167	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u168	You delivered this gift to the most reactionaries and to the far right. Faced with those who play the racist after-sales service of the identity debate, you play moderates as Mr Darmanin did this morning on France Inter, as if you were not, in reality, the incendiary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u169	Pétain's friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u170	And to point the finger at our Muslim compatriots, you manage to trap yourself, addressing debates that concern them only at the margin, such as the one on family education. What a waste! Yet these subjects should be dealt with seriously, within a comprehensive law on education and the strengthening of the public school and not from a single coercive angle, that you reserve to believers of one religion! Your bill is not just putting discriminatory subjects on the table. He is a liberticide – I am thinking in particular of the issue of associative freedom. He is even concordataire, breaking in this with the spirit of the law of 1905 which, I remind you, does not recognize religion, but does not interfere with it either. Secularity, let's talk about it. You voted against all the measures we proposed to better implement the 1905 law. Nor have you accepted the amendments – Mr de Rugy, chairman of the special committee, declaring them inadmissible – aimed at strengthening one of the main republican foundations, I mean equality, by fighting against social separatism. Yet this social separatism has this particular thing that those who live in the 16th arrondissement of Paris, not only live outside the laws of the Republic by accumulating wealth that makes them privileged but, in addition, enforce their own laws to the Republic, through a government at their service. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] As a result, because it is dangerous, discriminatory against Muslims, liberticide, concordataire, stuff - everything, largely useless and without any effect on the strengthening of our republican principles, this bill must be rejected, and we therefore call on you to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u171	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Falorni, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u172	Since a motion of rejection has been tabled, my intervention will be in this context and will replace the one provided for in the general discussion. It will therefore go beyond a simple explanation of vote and seek to express a position on the bill. The position that I will express in this rostrum will be at least that of a component of our Freedom and Territory group: that of the radicals of the left, this deeply secular and republican left center, whose historical struggle for the values of the Republic is no longer to be demonstrated, and who is the heir of the great radical founders of the Third Republic. It is to the credit of our group that we respect and allow the diversity and plurality of our views on this text. This bill began with a symbol. In choosing the date of 9 December for its presentation in the Council of Ministers, the Government stated its willingness to follow the line of the church-state separation law of 1905. The reference was obvious. She's not to displease me, on the contrary. Playing on the analogy also means taking the risk of comparison. We know that the law of 1905, adopted after intense debates which marked the history of this House, was in the end a very great law – for me, the most beautiful of all: 115 years after its adoption, it remains a fundamental law as well as a founding law, a law which, in the words of the Council of State, constitutes the "keystone of secularism", which in turn became the keystone of the Republic. Secularity is indeed the soul and flame of the Republic, the magnificent trait of union between what is so precious to us: freedom, equality and fraternity. Freedom first, because secularism is the construction of autonomy, personality and critical mind, especially at school, through the learning of school subjects and disciplines. It is also the remoteness of identity assignments. Finally, it is a precious right, particularly appreciated by children from countries where one is first defined by its origin and religion: secularism is also the right to be different from one's differences. Equality then, because secularism is the common belonging to the nation and the sharing of citizenship – its rights as well as its duties. Fraternity, for secularism, is to give priority to what brings us together rather than to what separates us. Yes, secularism is a jewel of peace and harmony. She's not a sword, she's a shield. And since it protects us, we too must protect it. For at least 30 years, secularism has not been adequately defended and its defenders have not been heard enough. It is of course frontally attacked by hate preachers, accompanied by some useful idiots who cry out to Islamophobia, when it comes to universalism. But the most worrying, perhaps, is that the questioning of secularism takes the form of a frontal challenge less often than of a sneaky sweetening. The adjectives, some of which affubulate the word "secularity" – which should be open, inclusive, positive... – are parasites that, like a tick, attach themselves to this substance only to better empty it of its substance. For years, accommodation, renunciation, small and great cowardice and voluntary blindness have accumulated in the hope of buying social peace. Voluntary blindness, for example, was the setting up of the Obin report, which, as early as 2004, warned about serious violations of secularism in the school of the Republic. It was also the creation of the Observatory of secularism, which was, in reality, only an observatory of blindness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u173	The slaughter of secularism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u175	The result of this cowardly and blindly guilty is before our eyes: it is the rise of communalism and separatism; the alarming rise of fundamentalists; the emergence, at the very heart of the national community, of genuine projects of fundamentalist counter-society. It is more than time to regain the ground lost by the Republic for years; reconstruct what our collective abandonments have damaged, cracked, fractured; to affirm loudly what the republican project is and to mobilize our fellow citizens around the pillars that underpin it, in order to fight against the temptation of withdrawal and rejection. I therefore regret the title of the bill itself. According to its title, in fact, it aims to "comfort[e] the respect of the principles of the Republic". I would have preferred it to be aimed at strengthening adherence to the principles of the Republic, because membership contributes to a great deal of respect. I cannot be suspected of angelism: I am convinced that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen our legal arsenal in order to ensure effective respect for our principles. The Republican fight, however, must not be based solely on punishment: it must also be based on conviction. Beyond the often very technical texts that we adopt, it is above all through the breath of our mobilization, our ambition and our republican conviction that we will sweep away the ideologies of hatred and exclusion. This text contains important provisions. In the area of public service, the inclusion in the law of the principle of neutrality of the private bodies responsible for the execution of a public service and the extension of the accelerated referral to the actions of the communities which would contravene the principle of neutrality are real advances. In the case of associations, the establishment of a Republican contract of engagement with the State and the extension of the grounds for the administrative dissolution of associations seriously violating public order or fundamental rights and freedoms are necessary. With regard to human dignity, the strengthening of the prohibition of polygamy and the prohibition of virginity certificates will, I hope, help to fight against communal attitudes contrary to the laws of the Republic – attitudes of which women are the main victims. With regard to the fight against online hatred, the creation of an offence of endangering the lives of others through the dissemination of personal information echoes the abominable process that led to the beheading of Professor Samuel Paty. With regard to the practice of worship, the law strengthens the controls and rules applicable to religious associations, including their financing, and aims to restrict foreign financing of worship. However, article 28, which allows cultural associations to exploit real estate directly, poses a serious problem as it is, because its adoption would constitute a real infringement of the spirit and letter of the 1905 law:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u176	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u177	... the State does not have to finance directly or indirectly the operation of a cult association by authorizing it to engage in a non-taxable commercial activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u179	This would eventually lead to the establishment of a concordatory practice contrary to the principle of secularism. It is also regrettable that the text does not address the necessary extension of the 1905 law to the entire metropolitan and ultramarine territory. Some of the amendments we have tabled will help. The concordat d'Alsace-Moselle, which maintains the public financing of cults with the money of all French taxpayers and obliges the atheist families to ask for a derogation in order to exempt their children from religious classes, is of another time and marks a boundary in the principle of unity and indivisibility of the Republic. When we deal with republican principles, the question of education is obviously fundamental. Article 21 of the bill aims to make schooling compulsory from 3 to 16 years of age and, as a result, to allow family education – IEF – only by way of derogation. I know that this subject is particularly sensitive for some families, who see home education as a way of providing a diversified, complementary or adapted education for a chosen educational project. This freedom must be maintained, but more supervised. Moreover, it is anomalous that the licensing regime that will apply to family education does not extend to non-contracted private institutions, in which the risk of separatist proselytism is at least as high as for the IEF. This will be the subject of one of our amendments. For my part, I believe more than anything else in school, because I am convinced that it is beneficial for children, both in terms of education and in terms of social and human rights. It is a place of construction, socialization and confrontation of ideas. Of course, the school is not perfect – we can improve it, in the first place by giving it more resources – but it is the place of emancipation of the mind and social emancipation par excellence, in line with the laws on the school of Jules Ferry, which moreover prefigured that of 1905. Without the school and the education it provides, the transmission of the values of the Republic cannot be ensured. We must do more to ensure that it continues to play that role. I have long advocated for more in-depth teaching of secularism at school, at all stages of the school course. But teachers must also be supported and protected. We all still have the painful memory of Samuel Paty's abhorrent murder. For years, however, national education had failed in its duty of protection. The doctrine, more or less displayed but very real, of the "no wave" was deleterious. She was even – I weigh my words – a criminal in relation to the Republican school and her hussars. In this connection, I welcome the adoption, in a special committee, of a new article creating the offence of obstructing the exercise of the role of teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, let us never forget that respect for the republican principles also requires adherence to them, particularly for a part of the youth, who have lost their bearings, to whom we have not been able to speak clearly. The fight for secularism certainly requires authority, but also conviction and pedagogy, to give meaning, horizon and hope. It also demands that the republican promise be translated into reality: there can be no strong secular Republic without a just and effective social Republic. This is the big gap in your text. You will oppose me that this is not his object. In France, however, we must fight for equal opportunities and against social and territorial segregation. Georges Clemenceau said, "You have to know what you want. When you know it, you have to have the courage to say it; When you say it, you have to have the courage to do it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u180	It's like Jean Le Cam!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u181	What we want is for Marianne, abandoned by so many renunciations and cowardices, to straighten her head. This implies having the courage to fight this totalitarian ideology of Islamism, of which Muslims are the first victims in the world. This implies having the courage to fight against separatism, but also against the intrusiveness of these enemies of the Republic, who preach hatred and promote a counter-society based on the total rejection of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights and all our fundamental principles. This implies having the courage to defend, as Victor Hugo did, this "idea", this "principle", this "right", this "incarnation of progress" which is the Republic. It means being able to live up to the courage of all those – cartoonists, journalists, writers, artists, teachers, religious, judges, police, citizens of all backgrounds and professions – who have been fighting for years to save our republican model, at the price of constant death threats and even of their lives. [["Ah! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] This bill deserves more than a rejection. Our group will therefore not vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u182	What remains of radicalism?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u183	A rejection would be a retreat – worse, a retirement. Now it's time to beat the call, Mr. Mélenchon, and not to retreat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u184	It's a concordatory law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So yes: have courage, more courage, always courage, and the Republic will rise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u186	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Castaner, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u187	Mr. President Mélenchon, you have convened the story. However, at the end of twenty-five minutes of intervention, you told us the essence of what you thought when you tried an alleged amalgam between Islam and Islam, the trial of what you called a "boiled". [["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] But isn't it also a form of intellectual bouillie that led you to proudly claim, on the grounds that you were fighting Islamophobia, your participation in the demonstration that took place on November 10, 2019 at the call of the CCIF, the Collective against Islamophobia in France? I note in passing that as I speak, Mr Mélenchon has just left the Chamber. What a mistake! By going to this demonstration, you have endorsed those who want to confuse everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u188	How do you know? You weren't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] I confirm it to you: unlike Mr Mélenchon, I was not there, and I take some pride in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u190	[[Mr. Éric Coquerel continues to protest]] Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u191	Mr. Coquerel, do not forget the recommendation of the doctor Mélenchon who advised us not to scream with a mask to avoid risking a heart attack. I therefore invite you to be very careful! Mr Mélenchon, in endorsing this demonstration, you supported, on the one hand, those who, perhaps rightly, defended the necessary fight against all discrimination and for the fundamental right to believe or not to believe, but also, on the other hand, those who, by calling for the demonstration, wanted to hide behind these rights in order to encourage separatism and to bring grave breaches to the values of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u192	Where were you the day after the attack on the mosque in Bayonne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u193	If there is one point on which I can join President Mélenchon, it is the defence of our republican values, a question that we are studying today and which, as he said, is not reduced to that of the right to blasphemy. Of course, these values include the freedom to believe and not to believe – Mr Mélenchon was right to defend all religions – but also to say and think. However, President Mélenchon is deeply mistaken and even guilty of a fault when he refuses, by ideology or perhaps by weakness towards a part of his group – just listen to you to convince himself – to see that there are entire territories in our country in which these fundamental rights are threatened.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u194	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u195	Therefore, would your motion of rejection mean that we should refuse to combat this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u196	Give us some numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u197	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Basically, Mr. Mélenchon spoke of everything but the text. No one in the majority will tell you that we must not fight discrimination, whatever its forms. By shouting in this way, you think you are fighting against amalgams, but it is you who mix, confuse and, in doing so, reinforce and accompany the populist discourse of the far right, a discourse that aims to mix and stigmatize everything. [[Ms MathildePanotprotestte]] Listening to President Mélenchon, I think it is not by being blind and deaf that we will solve the problem that threatens us. There are places in which we no longer have the right to consider the laws of the Republic as superior to those of God. We reject this situation on behalf of those who, in those same territories, are the first victims. I refuse it because the Islamists, the fundamentalists would like us to ignore this reality. So yes, on these benches of the House, we prefer a truth that disturbs rather than a silence that serves them. Do you not hear the noise and the fury of this evil that gnaws France and threatens our secularism? Even if he left the Chamber, I would like to remember Mélenchon the Republican, the layman. I know he has a sense of history, I know his fight and have long admired his energy. So now, with us, do not give in to anything and enter into this debate with demand and without complacency. Moreover, it is not because we take the time to debate this fight for the Republic that we neglect the urgency of taking action to combat covid-19. We are taking exemplary economic measures in the country to prepare for a sustainable future for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u198	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u199	We are acting, as we have done in the debates and hearings of the Special Committee – I would like to take this opportunity to commend the work of its President, its rapporteurs and its Members. The bill you are proposing to reject does not undermine freedoms: it strengthens, on the contrary, our free citizenship. For today young people, especially women, are denied the very exercise of citizenship. It is this fight that we want to carry out through this text. It is this ideal that guides us and leads us to reject your motion. For the same reason, we reject the pseudo-proposals presented a few days ago by the National Rally. The far right party has in fact drafted a bill which, if we are serious, can simply be said not to be a bill. It is a caricatural concentrate of pseudo-measures totally populist or that already exist. How can we receive lessons from those who voted against the SILT law, against the closure of places of worship in which radicalized individuals preach? I invite the representatives of the far right here to reread the texts against which they voted rather than to run the television sets. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Our freedom deserves long debates and a balance. But there is no better place to ensure this balance than our assembly. Mr President Mélenchon, we have the opportunity to do useful work for our republic, to give it the means to protect the ideal built by our predecessors and whose guardians and heirs we are in this chamber. This law is not the caricature that you have described, it is at the service of secularism, as a tool of absolute emancipation, as a pillar of our one and indivisible republic. It is a median law aimed at strengthening secularism so that our country does not break apart and so that we cannot say that we did not know. It is to this debate, rather than rejection, that I invite you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u200	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Benassaya, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u201	As usual, Mr. Mélenchon has defended with excess, and sometimes blindly, this motion of prior rejection by making many historical and religious amalgams. On this subject, so essential for the future of France and our society, my group will always favour dialogue, discussion and criticism. However, as we said in the Special Committee, the Republican Group regrets that the over-technical text that we are going to examine does not adequately address the problem of Islamist separatism, even though it limits a large number of freedoms: freedom of expression, freedom of worship or freedom of association. The Constitutional Council will certainly have to express itself concerning the proportionality of infringements of these freedoms with regard to the aim pursued. As we had hopes following the speech of the Walls, in which the President of the Republic had denounced the rampant political Islamism, the presentation of this text disappointed us. I will take as an example only his title, which no longer even refers to separatism. To take up a well-known quote, "the wrong name of an object is to add to the misfortune of this world." The speakers in my group will explain in the general discussion what is sorely lacking in this text, concerning immigration, secularism, the fight against prison Islamisation and, above all, the veil. How can we speak of separatism without evoking the veil or, more generally, reaffirming the Republican pact that unites the French and French? I can already tell you that this text, in its present form, does not suit us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, we cannot associate ourselves with a motion put forward by a party that has too often defended a communal vision of society, contrary to the Republic, and that we, the Republicans, do not share, a party that has demonstrated alongside those who advocate radicalism that we are fighting and that you do not want to see. In view of this guilty and sometimes complicit denial, the Republican Group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u202	Mr Vigier, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u203	Colleague Mélenchon, the Dem group will not associate its voices with yours. This debate invites us to convoke history, as you said very well earlier in addressing you to the Minister of the Interior, but also, in doing so, to write the pages of history. Therefore, we cannot escape or simply see that the Republic is weakened everywhere, in neighbourhoods as well as in rural areas. This situation calls for a strong reaction from the policies that we are. It invites us to combine our efforts, as we have done in special committees for long days and long hours. She's mostly calling for a Republican jump. If I believe in the Republic that integrates, in which everyone feels inserted and winning, it is intolerable that some want to ensure that religious laws prevail over those of the Republic. We need to be here to discuss a bill that addresses issues such as hate on the Internet, the weakening of schools, the police of cults and neutrality in the territory of the Republic. Our absence would be a mistake to me. It is the honour of Parliament and, through it, of all the local elected representatives who, as you know, are in line with this France that suffers and deserves to be supported. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, and because it is urgent to act, we will not associate our votes with your motion. The Republic of Words is not enough. What matters above all is the Republic of Acts. If we share your emotion, we favour a Republic of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u204	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u205	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 163 Number of votes cast 153 Absolute majority 77 For adoption 4 Against 149
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u206	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u207	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u208	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u209	For months, from solemn speeches in river talks, from formulas that have been convoluted to the effects of the waves, from the awakening of history to the dynamics of civilizations, from the discourse of Bernardins to that on separatism, the President of the Republic had finally aroused some expectation, or, at the very least, curiosity. So here is the great republican law so many times announced, and, on the bench of the Government, no less than four ministers of the Republic to defend it;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u210	[[Smile]] And what ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u211	... a law which claims, moreover, to rise to the height of great principles and to include its steps in those of Waldeck-Rousseau, Buisson, Jaurès or Briand. That is, therefore, the great republican law of the quinquennium... Do its highly technical arrangements deserve drum and trumpet? Even if all these measures have their effects, what steps still remain to be taken on the road to emancipation, integration, cohesion, justice, solidarity, in a word, on the road to republican promise! Mr Minister of the Interior, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, what a disappointment! If some of the provisions of this text have, I would like to say clearly, the favour of our group, such as those relating to respect for secularism, cherished and indeed attacked, to the neutrality of the public service or to the functional protection of agents, if we subscribe to the idea of better control of the foreign financing of cultural associations and the functioning of non-contractual establishments, if we condemn unreservedly the violence against women, acts that do not belong in our republic – in this case the certificates of virginity, forced marriages, polygamy – I must also tell you in what depth circumspection this bill plunges us. Circumspection, I said, first of all because of the political inspiration of a text that is not clear from his statement of reasons, radically sibyllin, or his impact assessment, which is not to mention much. It must be said that you hesitated a lot before you finally named your text. We will legislate, that it is not, but on what? Is it a question of combating terrorism, radical political Islamism and separatism? All at once or none of that at all? To name things wrong, there is a fear that none of the objectives will be properly achieved. Your text is talkative and inconsistent. Circumspection also because the effectiveness and effectiveness of many of the measures you submit to the approval of our assembly are questionable. How, for example, can we ensure the effectiveness of the prohibition of the certificate of virginity since no one will ever claim that he has violated the law? How can we claim to fight against polygamy by refusing the second wife the survivor's pension, when will thirteen international social security conventions remain applicable to a large number of actual situations? How, then, do not make these women doubly victims, here by abandoning them to the hands of charlatans, at the risk of their health, and there to the social minima, knowing that they were married as second wives at their expense? I could still take many examples. Thus, how can one claim, on the one hand, to tighten the constraints on family education in order to bring the children who have moved away from them back into the Republic, and, on the other hand, to encourage their enrollment in non-contractual establishments, to which the text does not impose the same authorization regime? How can we claim the effectiveness of a family education permit system if it is enough to choose a distance education from a foreign country to circumvent the law? Finally, how can we seriously seek to strengthen the control of associations without providing more resources for this purpose? I know too much about the weakness of the prefectures – barely the shadow of what they were – so as not to worry about it. I say it with the reverence that is mine for oak and olive leaves. But I also have the memory of 1998 and the aborted attempt of these controls, for lack of human and material means to examine the documents provided. We are cautious, but we are also, in some respects, worried and disappointed. This law, which, in the words recalled by the Council of State, concerns virtually all constitutionally and contractually guaranteed rights and freedoms, would, according to the formula which you borrow a little hastily and abusively from Aristide Briand, be a law of freedom: let us be allowed both to express our hope, but also to seriously doubt it. Indeed, I see nothing in the law that would allow us to affirm that it promotes and makes live in action the principles of the Republic of which you intend to ensure respect, or that it would be a liberal law in the sense that it is rightly understood by the 1901 Law on Associations or the 1905 Law on the Separation of Churches and the State. What additional freedom, indeed, would offer this law? None, I'm afraid. First and foremost, it is a law of coercion. The Defender of Rights rightly pointed out that more than one third of the articles of the text contained supervisory procedures and that more than one quarter defined prison sentences. The bill makes the Republic an injunction; of its principles – so dear to our republican hearts and so dearly conquered – rules, prohibitions, motives of public order. But the Republic is both more than that, and many other things as well. The Republic is an ideal, that of a one and indivisible national community in which everyone receives the means of his emancipation through the solidarity of all; This ideal is that of a national community in which everyone takes his place according to his talents and in which each, through his small daily action, contributes to a collective work of peace and justice. It is an ideal of self-consciousness, personal ethics, humility, self-denial, and nothing in your text really makes it live. And then there is the dominant tone of this project: a form of mistrust. This one may be the proper one of our times, but I don't think I can handle it. This mistrust, some parliamentarians will feed it through many amendments, as if the law and the Republic were not, for the majority of us – fortunately, you will not disagree – that air we breathe; as if it were necessary at every moment to give allegiance and recite to ourselves a republican catechism whenever our republican convictions are wavered in our hearts. At the very moment when our fellow citizens doubt their institutions and their representatives, those themselves, in the mirror, seem to answer them: we doubt you. I call in the face of all those who doubt it, in the face of all those who wish to divide us and secede: we are France. Beyond our convictions, we are a people deeply, intimately, intensely, passionately republican. The Republic is not, for us, a faith without culture: it is our culture. As if freedom carried in itself, intrinsically, its own licentious drifts, as if in each of us were the germ of the faction, the poison of radicalization, the slope of secession: there is, at the turn of this law, a certain way of seeing man and fearing him who is not that of socialists in history. Do not see any naivety: I know the filthy face of fanaticism. I do not believe that we were, during the Charlie Hebdo or Bataclan attacks, of any weakness or complacency. Rather, see a republican vigilance and remember the words of Léon Blum who, reporting on the laws of 1893 and 1894 in La Revue blanche in 1898, wrote about them: "Directed against the anarchists, they had the result of endangering the basic freedoms of all citizens. And to add: "It is not necessary for a reaction of tomorrow to use it. I think this alarm is always useful: we know that the republican order placed in the wrong hands can lead to disorder. Finally, I fear that your law does not like the word freedom more than freedom itself. This consideration, I agree, exceeds the examination of this text alone, but it is true that it is in a context and in a policy – yours – of which it is difficult to abstract. I fear him when I think of the freedom of association, which Tocqueville thought was the first freedom. "In democratic countries," he said, "the science of association is the mother science; the progress of all others depends on the progress of that." Associative engagement in all its forms is undoubtedly one of the most authentic affirmations of democracy and one of the most comprehensive expressions of citizenship. Does the freedom of association emerge from your project and from a contract of engagement which is not one and whose usefulness, in the opinion of the Council of State as well as that of the High Council to associative life, raises questions? The existing law could be self-sufficient, and the 2014 Charter of Reciprocal Commitments could have been enshrined in our law to address our concerns. While, as part of the commitments to be respected, the notion of the safeguarding of public order has been replaced by that of respect for public order, I am not sure that it fully reassures the associations in a context of increasing criminalisation of militant activity. In particular, the explanatory memorandum has not changed: it states that, as a democratic actor and as a citizen, associations are fully obliged to respect public order and not to incite or assist in any action likely to threaten it. As for the new reason for dissolution because of the behaviour of one of its members, the associations, in unison, are moved and worried about it. Although there is no right to a subsidy, one cannot help but think that subjecting the exercise of an associative activity, which lives on public subsidies, to the signing of a contract has something of an authorization regime. We are far from the liberal and modern law, to the universal formulation, whose vote was welcomed with the cries of "Vive la République! " I also fear it when I think of the freedom of religion and the double-declaration regime that your project plans to set up for the cult associations, as well as the right of opposition of the administration. The purest regime of freedom of association is a simple declaration. I am not sure that the strengthening of the control power of the administrative authority, at the expense of the judicial authority, does not destabilize the balance between the separation of churches and the state. Such a power of control had not even been requested by those claiming state control of religions in 1905. As for the distinction between what would be cultural and what would not be cultural under the 1901 Act, I understand the reasons and I can share them, but I see great controversies and many disputes there, if one thinks that the legislator himself has always dispensed and defined what a cult was, and to say what we should hold for a religion. Remember the long controversy – it lasted thirty years – about what distinguished a religion from a sect: it was, according to the conclusion of Dean Carbonnier, impossible to determine. He had this famous formula about Christianity: it would be a successful Jewish sect. We also remember the equally complicated and endless debates on the dual meaning of crèches: one nun, the other partly detached from religion distinguishing public buildings and public spaces, while recognizing exceptions by local tradition. There is a serious difficulty in these provisions with regard to freedom of association and non-recognition of religions. I hope that the debate will shed some light. There are both legal complexities and insecurities that neither the associations nor the public authorities will be able to resolve properly. I'm making a reasonable bet, but maybe to desolate myself, that nothing will fundamentally change. You probably think I'm exaggerating, but the devil nests in the details. Do you know, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that Article 19 which modifies the minimum number of members of a cult association – a debate to which we will probably devote only a few minutes – was the subject of an entire sitting on June 15, 1905? Every word, every choice was weighed at the trip. It would be too long to go back to the debates then, but I would just like to be a tease: you are right, 115 years later, to Abbé Hippolyte Gayraud, Member of Parliament for Finistère, who, at the time, claimed as a compromise, barely acceptable, a minimum number of members of a cult association set at seven. You may be here in spite of yourself, minister, papal marketer, as Jaurès could be said to be a papal socialist. I could have raised many other issues, and the debate will certainly allow it, but let us go back to the law before us. I know, Minister of the Interior – perhaps this is consubstantial to your function – that you love German sociology and Max Weber. For my part, I have a preference for French sociology and for Émile Durkheim, who fixed the purpose of the right hand of the state in social regulation. The citizens of modern societies entrust the State with the task of regulating social behaviour by law. The State is thus charged, through the law, with obstructing transgressions, deviant practices, in short, separatism. But at Durkheim, and I think that's what makes French sociology superior, the state doesn't just hinder, it doesn't just regulate. To its regal function of regulation is added an integration function: when the right hand pushes back, punishes, model each on the boss of the general interest, the left hand of the state integrates, accompanies, attracts to oneself. By this integral function, society entrusts the state, by law, to form a united community, but composed of free men. In essence, what Durkheim says is of great relevance: the separatisms on which we look are the result of a double movement of self-feeding rejections. Some groups reject the Republic, but the Republic also rejects certain groups. Therefore, the fight against separatism can only go through a double reverse movement: a movement of social regulation, to combat the rejection of the Republic by certain groups; a movement of integration, in order to combat the rejection by the Republic of certain groups. But from that point of view, ministers, the minister-in-charge, your bill is a mess: regulation is everywhere, integration is nowhere. For us socialists, secular struggle and social struggle are inseparable. The Republic must be secular and social but will remain secular, according to the famous formula of Jean Jaurès, because it has been able to be social: we are still there. I would not epilogue on this point; Many said it and everyone felt it: the fine balance between the order and the promises of the discourse of the Walls has gone away. As often, under this legislature, when we move from speech to action, there is only order, only regulation, only the right hand. History advances, tectonic plates are moving and some of the disastrous consequences of this great movement that your text intends to deal with are there. It's good, but it's very little and it's mostly doomed to failure because causes of separatism are neglected. On the fight against discrimination, not a word, while so many of our compatriots undergo it on a daily basis when they seek an apartment or a job with this reality of unprecedented violence: the more our fellow Muslims are integrated, the greater the discrimination for them. However, there is nothing to stop such discrimination, as if it did not violate the principles of the Republic. On the struggle for social mix at school, not a word and, for three years, not an act. Yet our school is socially, religiously, culturally and academically full of segregation and separatism. How can we claim to build a nation of likes and to fight separatism when the promise of equality appears fraudulent from an early age? The real equality, Gambetta said, is not to see, it is to make of it. The social mix at school is consubstantial to its emancipatory mission, it is conducive to the academic success of all, including the best students, and it should be a priority. You miss out and stubbornly refuse to offer young French women and young French people the chance to learn together to live together. On housing policy, on social mix in housing, on rich ghettos and municipalities that secede without ever respecting the law on urban solidarity and renewal, known as SRU, and without the prefects replacing mayors, not a word. Access to public service, equal opportunities and shared memories, parenting, not a word. Mr.Minister of the Interior, there are good questions and sometimes good proposals in this bill. But there are also many stalemates and gaps. What is this law for? Will it stop the flight out of the common world, the flight from one side to another, the flight from one side to the other? Will we live better together tomorrow with this law? Will the French be better protected? Do we know how to push back obscurantism? Will we be able to restore this Republic that we cherish as the most precious treasure? There is room for doubt. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] Yet there was so much to do to rebuild. Reconstruct not in spite of the French, but with them because, today as on July 30, 1903, when Jean Jaurès delivered his famous speech to youth, in our modern France, what is the Republic? A great act of confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u212	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u213	This bill to strengthen republican principles is a salutary initiative of the Government. It is a combat text against the enemies of the Republic who are trying to question what we have in common. It is a text of freedom that respects and protects the legitimate aspiration of our fellow citizens to believe or not to believe. On the one hand, it places at its heart the neutrality of public service; On the other hand, it consolidates and modernizes the practice of cults within the framework of the 1905 law. In this, it is a balanced text that is part of the philosophy of Aristide Briand, for whom the 1905 law granted citizens the full freedom to practice their worship without any limit other than respect for public order. It is this spirit of balance and its determination to act against unacceptable abuses committed in the name of religion, a religion instrumentalized for political purposes, that makes this bill a courageous and necessary step. These are fundamental, complex and particularly sensitive issues. For too long they have been the subject of successive indignations not followed by concrete answers. For too long they could be reduced to mere various facts in which one was pretending to see the seriousness of the situation. We have to repair the flaws that every little renunciation of the last thirty years has ended up digging. The question of separatism, the proliferation of hate speech that flouts republican principles, the exacerbation of communal tensions, the loss of landmarks on the basis of the unity of our nation, the attacks of a radical Islamism that strikes our country, the temptations of amalgam, unconscious or deliberate, that cross our society: all these drifts call for a republican revival. It is a long fight whose horizon is part of a trajectory of several generations, a collective challenge for the Republic – the Republic that deserves to exceed the time of elections and partisan reflexes. So, when we talk about our debates at the sitting, it seems to me to be useful to recall that it is not here for us to deal with all public policy issues in a single text. The aim is to defend secularism as an intangible principle throughout the national territory in all spheres of the Republic. That is what is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u215	The state does not recognize any worship, the state protects faith, but faith is never above the law. The State thus provides protection to all citizens without any distinction. Nor is it a question of undertaking this republican fight through particular cases or any stigmatization, but of establishing or re-establishing principles and guidelines. As such, I would like to clearly remove any ambiguity: the Republic guarantees the Muslims of France to live their faith in complete freedom, to share their culture and to flourish in our society, like any citizen of another religion, like any atheist or agnostic citizen. We must fight Islamism with a political project that aims to impose its rules and its vision of the world in all dimensions of social life. This fundamental distinction between the Muslim religion and Islamism is precisely what this bill applies in protecting worship against the risk of radical ideology. Those who feed ambiguity stir up tensions in our society, while those who maintain amalgam refuse their integration. Should we recall that Muslims are the first victims of political Islamism? Through this bill, the Government is creating new domestic funding levers for their places of worship. This is an important step in parallel with tighter control of foreign financing. The message of the Minister of the Interior, the message of the keeper of the seals and the minister delegated is a message of trust and responsibility. Yes, this text is a text of freedom. I would now like to talk about the school, Mr. Minister of Education. The school is the crucible of the Republic, and free and enlightened minds are formed within it. The State does not recognize any religion. Secularism is practiced at school, the school that raises, which allows to exceed its social status in order to reach its vocation as a woman or man. It is the place of freedom, the place of fraternity and equality; and, to keep this promise of the Enlightenment, the school must remain the place of secularism. The school of the Republic is generous – yes, generous – because its vocation is to promote equal opportunities by giving more to those who have less social or cultural capital at the beginning: it is the sense of the duplication of classes that the Government began in 2017, and it works very well, I see it in my district of Paris, the 18th. But generous and just doesn't mean naive. The state must be relentless in the face of those who are trying to destroy the Republican pact. It is the idea, Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer, that you defend with force and conviction. More than ever, the educational community must be supported by society as a whole. According to an FIFG survey for the Jean-Jaurès Foundation, 44% of teachers report self-censorship when dealing with secularism and freedom of expression in class. At the same time, according to a study by the Observatoire de la secularité, 81% of teachers indicated that they had never received specific training in secularism. Such a situation is of great concern to us. These teachers, the Republic, have a duty to help them, to accompany them in the exercise of their mission. Making this training compulsory would make it possible to overcome this deficit and to give more coherence, in the deployment of a common training module, to these major issues for the transmission of republican principles. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the fact that this idea was taken up in committee with a majority proposal. This is an important step forward. However, we would like to stress that it would be appropriate for this compulsory training to be coupled with a component dedicated to combating discrimination. It is, in our view, two dimensions that must go together. It is in this same logic of in-depth transformation of society that I propose, together with my colleague Christophe Euzet, that the leaders and associative cadres compulsoryly take training in secularism and the fight against discrimination, obviously when their associations receive a public subsidy. This is a complementary condition for us, which must go hand in hand with the signing of the Republican contract of engagement. Associations play a major role in education, solidarity, inclusion and leadership among the population. Through their essential missions, they thus assume an eminent responsibility in the transmission of the principles of the Republic. This compulsory training will be a decisive lever in the operational implementation of the Republican contract of engagement, for several reasons: first, to equip the leaders of associations with tools in order to present the principle of secularism or know how to react when they are confronted with complex situations, to detect and report behaviour contrary to the contract of engagement republican, in order to make effective progress in the fight against discrimination. Moreover, precisely because cultural or sports associations have a prominent place in social life, they can be subject to drifts through external funding. As such, it seems to me useful to extend the monitoring of foreign financing provided for in the draft law to include associations governed by the 1901 Act. It is not a question of stigmatizing them, but of taking the measure of new phenomena of radicalisation that have repeatedly in recent years been able to use this social, cultural or sporting bias to divert it into a tool of political propaganda. Our duty as legislator is to anticipate these potential situations by providing a better guarantee of control over external influences. I would also like to say a few words about the importance of the French language in this debate on strengthening republican principles. Mastering French is a project to join our country, a project to adhere to its values, its principles and its history. It is in the mastery of the language that the ability to express one's opinions, one's vision of the world, and to understand one another among citizens is played. Putting the French language at the heart of our identity is a project of republican reconquest: a reconquest by the school. From this perspective, we consider that the authorization of family education must naturally be subject to the mastery of French as a precondition. How could it be otherwise for the advocates of equal opportunities that we are? There is an intimate connection between the singularity of our language and the secularity of French. Both participate in the same universal vocation, they are both part of our cultural exception, they structure our identity and shape our thinking. Our model of secularism is looked upon in the world, this French voice is expected in many countries by women and men who recognize themselves in this conception of the Enlightenment; Because our model is competing with other models, the Anglo-Saxon model and the Asian model, whose respective influence is growing. To defend our model of secularism with pride is not only to defend our identity, it is to promote a certain idea of the emancipation of the individual who places his trust in the citizen. Far from self-absorbing, it corresponds to an open and free vision of the women and men to whom it addresses itself. Before concluding, I would like to stress the quality of the debates and the listening during our discussions in the special committee. Because this bill is not limited to a project against enemies of the Republic: it is part of a positive vision of what our nation wants to produce in common. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Our group, Action Together, is proud to support, within the presidential majority, this text, which is a good text, a determined and balanced text. We have tabled a series of amendments aimed at enriching it constructively. I hope that, beyond the majority, beyond the left, the right, the centre, in the diversity of our political sensitivities, we will first think of the Republic and France; I hope we can come together to reinforce our republican principles. I want to believe it, for the Republic and for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u216	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-01-O1144.u217	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the draft law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
