ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous and others on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through membership structures (No 3853, 4151).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u3	I am pleased to be with you for the discussion of the proposal for a law on emergency measures to ensure that access to agricultural land is regulated through member structures. As the President of the Republic stated in 2019 at the international trade fair for agriculture, the key issue here is the renewal of generations in the agricultural and rural worlds. We are at a crossroads between, on the one hand, the ageing of agricultural populations and, on the other hand, the need to set up young people to take back the torch of their elders. This issue is all the more important in the context of the health crisis, which has clearly stressed the need to strengthen the resilience of our agriculture. Without a generational succession, it is totally illusory to hope to meet this challenge. In order to settle, young farmers need land first and foremost. Access to land is a determining factor for their installation. We must therefore act to promote their access to land and thereby limit the risk of excessive land grabbing and concentration in our country. [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] You've heard me say it before, I have the conviction that there is no strong country without strong agriculture. And there will be no strong agriculture without farmers in our territories. The challenge of transmission is therefore immense. It is 50% – and I would stress this – of the managers who will be entitled to retire within ten years. We need to create a framework for the establishment of young people from all walks of life who can bring added value to our territories. The expansion of farms, when it becomes excessive, can lead to a phenomenon of concentration: this is sometimes the case with the transfer of members. Some controls are not being applied today and need to be strengthened: this is the whole issue of the bill. Let us say that our land is one of the cheapest in Europe, but this true factor of competitiveness is still undervalued. Like you, I intend to preserve and strengthen it. We are gathered here around a text that aims to send a strong signal in favour of our youth and the establishment of young farmers. The issue of circumvention of regulatory tools by corporate transactions is not new. It was discussed in 2014 as part of the future law for agriculture, food and forestry, but without a truly robust technical solution being outlined. MP Dominique Potier then served as the forerunner, in 2017, as rapporteur of the law on the control of agricultural land grabbing and the development of biocontrol. Then a great deal of work was carried out by the joint information mission on agricultural land, which was chaired by Jean-Bernard Sempastous – which had to sharpen your appetite for this issue, rapporteur – and whose rapporteurs were Anne-Laurence Petel and Dominique Potier. As you can see, attempts to find a solution have not been missed in recent years. On the other hand, if I believe the decisions taken by the Constitutional Council, they have not been truly successful, which also demonstrates the complexity of the subject. Mr rapporteur, dear Jean-Bernard Sempastous, I would like to thank you for your initiative...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u4	We can!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u5	...and the high-quality work you have done with your colleagues on this bill. You have led it in a spirit of consultation, involving the actors of the agricultural world as well as the practitioners of rural law – a law which, I agree, is not the simplest. The consultations of experts and organisations that you have multiplied have led to a text that, I think, is balanced and with the best legal guarantees – the subject is very complex, I repeat. The Council of State, seized by the National Assembly, has confirmed the constitutionality of the mechanism that you are proposing and which we are going to discuss, which was very important for those who have been following this issue for so long. This is an essential element in relation to the past attempts I have mentioned. I therefore see this bill as the result of a collective construction that draws lessons from previous initiatives and which has a broad consensus on the need. That being said, I know that some of you would have liked the Government to draft a major land law. Due to a forced legislative agenda, especially due to the pandemic, this has not been possible. However, we will have dealt with the two issues that appear today as priorities: first, the regulation of the corporate market, thanks to this parliamentary initiative; Then the fight against the artificialisation of soils, thanks to the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, which you have recently examined and which contains very ambitious objectives in this respect. These two texts will undoubtedly mark some of the major advances I consider to be in the protection of agricultural land. We will, of course, need to discuss further points, relating to certain definitions, and to strengthen legal arrangements. For the time being, however, I believe it is necessary to focus on the purpose of this bill, so that it can prosper effectively and in the spirit of your work. We need to take urgent measures to respond to the challenges of mergers, which are sometimes not regulated, particularly with regard to corporate mergers. The proposed law thus establishes a new licensing regime, which applies to the acquisition of control of companies holding or operating land. This is not, strictly speaking, an additional system of authorisation to operate, but a procedure specifically adapted to the constraints of the corporate market, complementary to the control of structures and SAFE – land development and rural establishment companies. As far as the SAFEs are concerned, we will see through your amendments, several actors have alerted me to their role, which is sometimes considered too preponderant in the new procedure. The choice that has been made is to entrust the investigation of the files to the FASER. It is a choice of simplicity and efficiency that I approve. But the final decision is and will always be the responsibility of the administrative authority, which remains the sole authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u7	Given the rather singular status of the SAFE and the new role assigned to them, we also need to increase our level of demand, which is quite normal. In this regard, we will include in the implementing decree of the bill measures to ensure the transparency of the procedure of membership control – which everyone should approve. In conclusion, the examination of this text is, in my view, a decisive and necessary step, albeit still insufficient. It sets a course for this great land reform, which we all call for, and I repeat, to reassure the new generation of access to agricultural land, but also to promote the competitiveness of agricultural land. Never forget, the competitiveness of agricultural land is a real asset for our country, but an undervalued asset. We are facing a challenge for our territories, because their development is primarily through agricultural land, as well as an environmental challenge, because, I stress, after the sea, it is the soil that captures the most carbon in front of the forests. That is what we are going to discuss, and be sure, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, that I will debate as I am used to, with the desire to exchange and advance the text, in the interests of the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] There are no strong countries without strong agriculture, and there will never be agriculture without farmers, especially young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u8	In the general debate, Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u9	The fight for land sharing is one of the fights of my life. It is linked to my deep commitment to peasant and rural civilization, as well as to my choice of ecological and realistic humanism, linked to the challenges of carbon, food security, employment and our territories. I've known him since he was a little boy, I'm a farmer's son. I also knew him in my associative responsibilities, activists, unions, as a professional leader, and then as a local elected official. It is with great heart that I think I have then brought it into public life and political debate from 2013. The years 2013 and 2014 correspond to the law of the future for agriculture, food and forest. It was a first pitfall, given that we had to deal with the Constitutional Council. In 2016 and 2017, we, together with Minister Stéphane Le Foll, made a new legislative trial which also ran counter to the Constitutional Council, which opposed freedom of enterprise and the right to property to the common good. In this collective adventure, I would like to pay tribute to such great men as Edgard Pisani and François Tanguy-Prigent, who was an extraordinary Member of Parliament and Minister of Agriculture. We owe them the laws relating to rent, the SAFE, the regulation of land. All that has brought about agricultural prosperity is for them. They were able to share the land to make it flourish against the annuitants and the great owners. They gave the land to the peasants to undertake, feed France and contribute to the world food story. It is to them that I am thinking of today and the account of those who have been called the "sharers." I deliberately subscribe to this philosophical, spiritual and political tradition, which inhabits our rural spaces from the east to the west of France, but which is now broken by a liberalization that takes various forms: that of international capitalism, but also, more simply, of the Gaulish predation. Without mentioning the Chinese, the Luxembourgers or the Belgians, there is simply the law of the strongest on our soil, which leads to the concentration of land by use, with delegated work, and property, through the social phenomenon. It was therefore urgent to take action. The joint information mission on agricultural land, which the Socialist and related groups had asked for, laid the foundations for a great land law adapted to the anthropocene, the food challenge and the ecological issues that you recalled, Minister. I will not mention the names of all the colleagues from all the groups who participated in this joint fact-finding mission, but over the past three years, we have been knocking at the door of your department to ask you and your predecessors for such a bill. In 2020, given the context, we concluded that we need to be pragmatic. The aim is to put on the presidential agenda a major land reform, worthy of the one carried out after the war, in order to take account of the challenges of the present. But in the shorter term, it is about putting an end to the drifts, due to delegated work and the societal phenomenon, which distort our landscapes and the face we love of agriculture. The introduction of this bill forced us to legally express our intentions. There are thus two projects: the one defended by the Socialist and related group, to which other groups join, and the one supported by the majority with this text. They don't say the same thing, even if they have the same explanatory statement, which I know a little bit for having contributed, with others, to inspiring him for years. We therefore share, little or no, the same observation, but will the means mobilised by the bill serve the cause that we intend to defend? I'm deeply afraid not. I even believe that the remedy that is being proposed today could prove to be worse than evil, and we will try to demonstrate it technically. In any case, be sure that this text is for me, as for all those who are part of the tradition of sharing, a deep wound. It is an illusion, a fiction that is told to us. Thus, beyond the alliances that have been passed around the bill, we will never stop trying to demonstrate technically, in a practical way, how it could have the effect of tarnishing the cross-road that is the circumvention of the rules by the member way. We will put forward our arguments with the feeling of a triple failure. First, we have failed to reform the Constitution, so that the place given to the common good is rebalanced with respect to property rights and freedom of enterprise. Secondly, we regret that a major land law does not shed light on the issues of rurality and demographic renewal, which will be the main agricultural issue of the next decade. Finally, I repeat, we regret that the bill, which could have put a garrote on the drifts that we see every day in our territories, is likely not only to be ineffective, but to produce perverse effects that could be worse than evil. Against winds and tides, I'll tell my part of the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u10	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u11	It is also that of independent academics, peasants whom I meet on the ground and other actors, beyond the organization to which they belong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u12	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u13	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] We will endeavour to tell this part of the truth so that, beyond the final vote, the virtues of genuine land sharing are at least enlightened. Wounded but standing, I want to serve the tradition of sharing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u14	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u15	Greece has left us the tragedy, but I want to show you something else from this country: the measure. Let's start with Solon. This great thinker and politician took an important first step for agriculture through agrarian reforms. In a poem, he says: "Clouds come snow and hail, lightning necessarily follows thunder. » Given the 21st century, it seems simple to us, but he is the first man to put political causation in motion in Greece. This is what will, throughout the millennia, push politicians to carry out agrarian reforms; It is this political causality that will lead the Gracques to defend a new one – I do not wish you, rapporteur, the same end as them! However, they have also tried to carry out such a reform. Latifundia then came, during the High Empire, to trample on the reforms undertaken during antiquity. What are they telling us, all these reforms? They tell us that we must be wary of man, who grabs the earth with, not empathy, but envy. Yes, you have to be wary of the man. The question that Solon had tried to answer again arises in our time. How can we make, in a society like ours, the agricultural world both prosperous and able to feed citizens? I am talking about citizens, not men, because the agricultural world is fundamentally attached to the Republic – the Roman Republic at first, the French Republic in a second. That is what is important, and that is what Jean-Bernard Sempastous's bill responds to. It responds to this, not in the way of the Greek tragedy, but in the measure – the measure that Solon had incorporated into political reflection. As you said yourself, Minister, this problem will have to be addressed with measure. We know the shortcomings of our agriculture, but we know above all what dangers it faces. The first is a demography in a free fall: young people are no longer coming and more and more farmers are retiring, so that land will gradually be released. The second is international competition. Let us not forget, our agriculture is not only made to meet a national demand. France is also there to feed the world, not only its citizens. This is part of his universalist message. But this approach is good economically for the nation, but it is also good humanly: it allows us to be part of a humanist, or humanist, agriculture – as our comrade Potier pointed out. Let us not forget this part of agriculture. At the same time, it responds to the challenge of integrating young people and to the need to make the agricultural world more attractive for young people who turn away from it. Indeed, very few young people enter agriculture, when many lands are freed. What happens when young people no longer enter the sector and land is freed? A capitalist agriculture, an agriculture of firms is emerging. This firm farming will gradually revive land grabbing and ruin the nation, as Solon said in his time. It is important to understand it well. This bill is not based on a desire to take over the land: it aims to respond with measure to the need for a French agriculture which is at the same time likely to irrigate the territories, to make them live and to allow young people to settle there, while at the same time promoting better planning of the national territory. This bill does not respond, of course, to all the challenges facing the agricultural world, but it is beginning to respond to them. She's starting to say something to the citizens. It gives meaning to future territorial adjustments and agricultural reforms. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Action Together Group is therefore looking favourably at this bill. He will participate in the debate before voting conscientiously. Personally, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the tremendous work he has done. The humanist side of agriculture appears in this bill, and I am delighted with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u16	Mr Andre Villiers has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u17	First of all, I would like to thank the thirty-five colleagues who are interested in agriculture. I then reiterate our support for farmers, hard hit by the freezing episode this early spring. In the face of crises, national solidarity must be sustained. I also stress the rapporteur's long-standing commitment to the issue of agricultural land and the quality of his work to find a sound legal framework, following several censorships by the Constitutional Council. Nor do I forget our colleague Dominique Potier, who is all aware of the mobilisation on these issues. Despite all the efforts of our farmers, the French farm is losing momentum. Our agricultural and food exports are falling free – in spite of, or rather because of, unfair competition, including within the European Union, or because of free trade treaties signed with countries that do not share our values. We know, Mr Minister, that you do not share the expectations of the agreement between Mercosur and the European Union. The phenomenon of concentration and land grabbing hinders the establishment of young farmers and limits the diversity of crops. However, it is the tree that hides the forest. This situation is particularly aggravated by the artificialization of agricultural land and the retirement, in the next ten years, of almost half of the farmers in our country. Companies, regardless of their legal form, develop nearly two thirds of the useful agricultural area (UAA). The strong measures put forward by the Head of State in 2019 are not at the rendezvous of the expectations of young farmers, whose difficulties we know to access agricultural land. In metropolitan France, agricultural soils cover 50% of the area. Since 1982, they have been reduced by almost 8%. In total, 2.5 million hectares, among the best land, have been artificialized – almost 10% of the 28.5 million hectares in hexagon. For the past fifty years, structural policy has been trying to regulate the land market, with relative efficiency – and the word is not too strong. The decline in the UAA was offset by the special mechanism of the increase in yields and by the fall in the number of farmers. The result was an increase in the size of farms without any real concern for the consumption of land by uses other than those of agriculture. It is not surprising to see the increase in the price of land. This bill tends to subject to administrative authorization the acquisition of control, even minority, of agricultural holding companies. The IDU and independent group supports this initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u19	Our concerns about the strengthening of the power of the SAFE have been partially removed by the debates in committee and the amendments to the text. However, we will propose that the SAFEs cannot sell more than twice the price of the goods they have acquired and that they return their inventory more quickly. We also wish to exempt transmissions in a family setting from this system. The French agricultural model is in fact based on a centuries-old family transmission of farms. We must therefore preserve this link, paying attention to the case where landowners who have not operated for several generations would, at some point, want to promote their heritage. We are very attached to this model which we inherited and which we have the responsibility to transmit. It combines all the virtues of French agriculture. As regards aid for the common agricultural policy (CAP), we have already mentioned this subject in committee. As long as the hectare is used as a multiplier for EU aid, large farms will be the big winners. In order to combat grabbing, payment entitlements should be capped, regardless of whether the holding is an individual or a member. More redistributive payments should also be made to small farms with high added value. It is, in our view, the only way to tackle this problem. Thus, this text does not solve everything but it fills a legal gap after several failures. We regret, however, that the Government has not favoured a large text on agricultural land, with a little more audacity and imagination. The accumulation of small reforms undermines coherence and clarity, so the thematic vision on a subject which, it must be said, limits the exorbitant limits of common law, in this case the right to property. We have to give the agricultural world a chance. To keep our rank, as you know, the stakes go far beyond the land problem. The UDI-I Group advocates improving agricultural income and rebalancing trade relations. I would like to refer here to the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as the EGALIM Act. It was the mountain that gave birth to a mouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u20	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u21	I would also like to pay tribute to the work of our colleague Thierry Benoit. We call for the simplification of the administrative framework and the guarantee of regulatory stability. We are calling for the reform of agricultural insurance in order to cope with the repetition of climatic hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u22	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] We call for the modernization of agricultural training and its dissemination to all young people, not just to rural young people. We are campaigning for the return to human-scale agriculture and for the maintenance of our food sovereignty. The relationship to the land means that being a peasant is probably not a trade, but a state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u24	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u25	The earth is not a consumer good like any other. This reality must be fully absorbed, failing which we will miss out on an essential question for decades to come. One cannot think of food sovereignty and the quality of a healthy diet for all by letting the earth make the butter of financial appetites never satisfied. However, the freedom to undertake such activities must be limited to some extent. France was one of the first nations to innovate on agricultural land by creating SAFER in the 1960s. The abuse of the corporate phenomenon to circumvent certain rules undermines our agricultural model. It is therefore essential to tackle the problem of land tenure. The legislator is not at its test gallop with regard to attempts to regulate access to agricultural land. In December 2016, my colleague and friend Dominique Potier had tried to limit the phenomenon of land grabbing, but his bill had been partly censored in substance by the Constitutional Council, which once again invoked the sacrosanct freedom to undertake. Yet we must act. In our countryside, land grabbing is a problem and a peril. Worse, things have been accelerating for about ten years, with increasing pressure from investors who have nothing to do with agriculture and sometimes foreigners. In Allier, we were confronted with this situation as a result of Chinese investments in agricultural land that led to land grabbing through corporate structures. In 2017, the company had acquired no less than 900 hectares of agricultural land in Allier after having already bought 1700 hectares in Indre in 2016. The evil is real and we are not armed to fight against these aggressive acquisitions. A major reform of agricultural land must take place. It was indeed a promise of the President of the Republic, but it will not be for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u26	One more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u27	The lack of political courage, combined with a recurring difficulty of getting away, if only on this fundamental subject, from the guidelines of your liberal policy, has killed in the egg the beautiful intentions that you displayed. However, this bill is coming, and it is better to have an emergency proposal than no proposal at all. We believe, however, that many hopes based on this text will be disappointed. Is the threshold for excessive or significant enlargement the right criterion for triggering a control? I'm not sure. This will create an unequal procedure for the control of structures. Some will certainly use this tool to set up companies to circumvent the control of structures. Article 1 establishes a system of tacit acceptance of certain transactions after a period fixed by decree. Since this may also be a problem, I have tabled an amendment aimed at reversing its logic and making the absence of a decision within a certain period of time the mark of a refusal. This text also does not address delegated work: it is regrettable because this method of circumvention of control is growing strongly and is becoming increasingly visible and harmful. I have tabled an amendment aimed at combating delegated work and consolidating the right to rent and the establishment of new farmers. Still in the area of the establishment of young farmers, this text does not make much to ensure the renewal of farmers who will retire. Other questions remain, of course. In a lactating bovine system, I need between 3000 and 4000 euros of off-farm capital to settle in, which excludes many young people who dream of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u29	This bill is a first step in the door, but it must pave the way for other much more ambitious legislation. I deeply regret that our working group on the subject has not been successful,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] ...but for farmers and against land grabbing, every step forward is important. This bill is a modest step forward, and the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u32	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u33	A large land law was expected, as access to land was difficult. Everyone agrees on the need to protect agricultural land and to fight against the artificialisation of soil, but, as usual, actions do not follow the words,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u34	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u35	...the recent climate bill that brought us new evidence. This bill is limited but has at least the merit of existence. However, it is necessary to amend it so that it does not miss out on the objectives pursued. In France, there are fewer and fewer farmers, but more and more companies are out of control. The growing corporate market is not transparent and often conceals expansion. It comes into competition, can block facilities, acquisitions or individual structures, and challenges the peasant model that is resilient to climate change, to which I am particularly committed. It was indeed time to reform because the mechanisms of acquisition by companies have a lot of inequities compared to other modes of access to land, whether it is the threshold of authorisation, advertising or transparency. However, there are several points in this bill that alert us. The first, the most important, relates to our incomprehension of seeing a text to preserve the installation of young people and new farmers validate the possibility of exceeding a threshold of enlargement – even if you call it excessive. This threshold remains too high to control and therefore misses our shared objective of facilitating the establishment of new farmers. Indeed, the operative part of your bill only intervenes if this threshold is exceeded. You miss the goal of correcting the inequality of treatment with other modes of access to agricultural land. They are subject to a standard licensing threshold and not to this much higher threshold, which is described as excessive. Your bill does not differentiate between purchases of shares or shares made by companies that operate land and purchases made by companies that own land without exploiting it. In 2010, 10 per cent of field crops were already using businesses for agricultural work. In the interest of promoting facilities, especially those of young people, more control should be given to this phenomenon. SAFE's mission is to diversify landscapes, protect natural resources and maintain biodiversity. It would therefore seem logical that the proposed law would make the decision of the prefect of authorization for enlargement subject to such criteria as the diversification of cultivation methods. As you say quite often, Minister, monoculture impoverishes soil, and the diversity of production is necessary for food independence. The prefect's decision should be based on the need to preserve the environment and biodiversity, while at the same time being consistent with the goal of food security laid down in the EGALIM Act. A much more proactive public policy is needed. Finally, your bill makes unfortunately marginal amendments that will not stop the trend towards land concentration. The explanatory memorandum of your law sets out the objectives, but we are looking for ways to achieve them in the devices you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u36	We're looking, we're looking...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] It is therefore necessary to draw up another text, which is much more ambitious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u38	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u39	Our country loses a little more operators every year, and the next five years do not allow anything to be better given the age pyramid of today's assets. As a result, the area of the farms is increasing steadily and the financialisation has gained the countryside. These evils are well known now. Will they become sustainable? The scarcity of land, the concentration of farms and the grabbing of land by certain actors, sometimes foreign to the agricultural world, profoundly alter the land market. Regulatory tools have eroded over time and are breathless, to such an extent that some call for their outright deletion to allow the market to become the sole umpire. The first to endure the consequences of these developments are and will always be young farmers. Installation costs are exploding and access to land is becoming increasingly difficult, especially for facilities outside the family setting. Under these conditions, fewer and fewer people wish to settle. Our right is old and overtaken by these issues. There is a remedy, repeatedly announced since the beginning of the quinquennium: a great land reform embracing the problems in their entirety and allowing our agriculture to prepare for the future. That is why, for several years now, we have been dealing with the issue of land in public debate with other parliamentarians and civil society. During this legislature, the joint information mission on agricultural land and the symposium held at the National Assembly in 2019 were opportunities to draw up diagnoses and propose solutions. The conditions were in place to start building a new legal framework, but the political will was lacking. As a result of these renunciations, we need to look at a bill that is just putting up with the rush, at the risk of turning our backs on the future. On the merits, I share the intention of the author of the bill to better control the divestiture of social security rights in companies that own or operate agricultural land. This is where the poison came in. Indeed, an increasing number of structures use social form to escape the rules of regulation of agricultural land. With it also, let us recognize, the complicity of professionals nevertheless entrusted with the mission of public service! These corporate, family, financial, family and financial arrangements no longer allow the instruments of SAFER and the control of farm structures to intervene to limit grabbing. This is why your text creates, alongside the control of the structures and the right of preemption of the SAFE, a third mechanism that would allow for the administrative authorization of transfers of securities on companies holding or operating agricultural land. I contest this choice to multiply the tools dedicated to the monitoring of transfers of ownership and use of agricultural land. It adds complexity without real efficiency gains. On the contrary, I believe that all the procedures should have been reviewed, even if the scope of control of the structures should have been extended to cover social security rights. In addition, I fear the consequences of your new system, which restricts administrative authorization to exceeding a "significant" enlargement threshold. In doing so, it perpetuates unequal treatment between member and individual farms. It is based on a higher threshold than that of structural control, which could encourage all those who want to expand to use it. Another area of concern is the preponderance of FASER in the investigation of cases. His ability to judge cases impartially questions me. In addition, there is still a need to clarify the means at its disposal to deal with this additional work. In the absence of compensation, the risk involved is that of minimal involvement. You are also planning to exempt all donations from this new control device. How can we ensure that this provision will not lead to circumvention, as was the case when all donations of land were outside the pre-emption scope of SAFE? Finally, a word about the lengthy and complex investigation procedure that you are proposing. She also opens the door to detours. If the silence of the administration is acceptable, there is much to bet that a large number of files will be validated without even looking at the content of the operation. As for the possibility of implementing compensatory measures negotiated between seller and acquirer of securities and SAFER, it could result in the sale of land and new leases arbitrated by SAFER, or even worse, by trades which would not have the sole general interest as their basis, without the operations leading to a decrease in the size of the holding. In short, the legislative arsenal deployed is not up to the stated ambition: nothing new under the legislative sun!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u40	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u41	We are invited to examine the proposal for a law by our colleague Jean-Bernard Sempastous on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through membership structures. It represents a first step, albeit modest but essential, to try to curb the phenomenon of excessive concentration of farms in the form of members, a growing threat to agricultural land. This is a modest first step towards the stronger ambition that you outlined earlier, Minister, that of a great land law that we all call for. In 2018, as part of our joint information mission on agricultural land, Dominique Potier, Jean-Bernard Sempastous and I highlighted the urgency of changing our model to protect and share agricultural land more and better. While the tools for regulating the land which France acquired in the 1960s have been effective and have made our country a great agricultural nation with more than 2 million holdings at the beginning of the Fifth Republic, it must be noted that they are no longer, half a century later, adapted to a changing world which sees the growth of firm farming and the financialization of the land. The attempts to reform the National Assembly so far – I think that of our colleague Dominique Potier – have unfortunately been censored by the Constitutional Council. The stakes and urgency are great: the number of farms has been divided by five since the 1960s while their average surface area doubled; the market for transfers of shares has increased in four years from 132 million to more than 1 billion euros; In the next three years, no less than 150000 farmers will retire, i.e. one third of the profession, and many of them will not find a successor if nothing is done to facilitate access to the land. These figures are a source of alarm to the profession, because they do not adequately predict the future of our agriculture and the orientation of our agricultural model. It is indeed our food sovereignty that we are talking about, our ability to allow the installation of young farmers and our willingness to develop a sustainable agricultural model that is more environmentally friendly but also more competitive. The mechanism we are looking at is based on two pillars. It aims, on the one hand, to acquire control of more than 40% of the capital of a company by a natural or legal person, and, on the other, to exceed a threshold of significant expansion of the holding. Its operation is doubly guaranteed, since the investigation of such cases will be entrusted to the SAFER and the decision, to the administrative authority. With regard to the efficiency of the text, I welcome the fact that the rapporteur has obtained an opinion from the Council of State on this draft law, which ensures its compliance with higher standards. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have enriched the text on the basis of the opinion of the State Council. In accordance with its requests, we have changed the "excessive expansion threshold", which has become the "significant expansion threshold". We also changed the threshold for participation from 25 per cent to 40 per cent of voting rights: it was necessary to bring the text into conformity with the Constitution. Finally, we clarified the criteria taken into account by the administrative authority in issuing its authorisation and clarified that the application could be refused, if it is "contrary to the objectives of structural control or to the guidelines of the Regional Master Plan for Agricultural Structures". Mr Minister, I would like to see that, through the decrees, we go further on transparency in the decision-making chain, in particular by making it mandatory to publish the minutes of the SAFE technical committees. The professional organisations agree that action must be taken quickly to control the phenomenon of membership. In my department, Bouches-du-Rhône, so far relatively spared by this phenomenon, the signals are perceptible and they worry. During the discussions in committee, everyone stressed the need to take account of local specificities. As a member of Parliament for Bouches-du-Rhône, where viticulture plays a major role, I am also committed to it. The debates we will have in this House this evening and tomorrow will give the minister an opportunity to answer these questions, as well as those concerning the content of future decrees. I welcome the rapporteur, Jean-Bernard Sempastous, who organised the consensus within the profession and built a balanced system. Yes, a broad consensus of the agricultural profession emerges around the control of social shares, which legitimizes this arrangement, even if in this House some will argue for a more administered vision and others, a more liberal one. That is also the democratic debate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is our duty as parliamentarians to adopt concrete, operational and balanced laws that protect and serve the general interest of the French. There is no doubt that this bill, however modest, fulfils this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u42	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u43	[[Applause on several benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate our colleague Jean-Bernard Sempastous for his unwavering involvement and determination in advancing this text on agricultural land, co-signed by many of us. [[Smile on various benches]] The subject is delicate because, for some, we do too much, and for others, not enough; because it refers us to the right to property, the legacy of the Revolution. This is particularly the case in l'Orne, where, almost fifty years ago, a certain Jean Moncorgé, dit Jean Gabin, had to endure the vehement protests of nearly 700 farmers led by a certain M. Pottier – nothing to see, I think, with Dominique Potier – who had come to his house to signify their opposition to his purchase of several hundred hectares around Moulins-la-Marche. The subject is therefore delicate, and yet essential both for the development of our territories and for agriculture and the renewal of generations. This bill, if it does not revolutionize things, has the merit of tackling a recurring problem, which concerns more and more transactions and hectares in the most agricultural regions. In addition, it was drafted on the basis of various expertises, concrete examples, proposals from the agricultural profession, bringing together all the actors around the table, with the aim of reaching a consensus. Contrary to what the grinches will say to the bottlers, it can only improve the regulatory system to better protect the traditional French model, so particular, of family farming. If we do not forgone a legal framework adapted to the realities of our time, we would take the risk of penalising the attractiveness of our regions, agricultural employment, the renewal of generations, but also, in the long run, our food sovereignty. To supervise agricultural land is also to be lucid, to protect all our territories, without exception. In the course of the rural laws – the so-called SRU, ALUR and OUR laws, respectively the Act on Urban Solidarity and Renewal, the Act on Access to Housing and Renovated Urban Planning and the Act on the New Territorial Organization of the Republic – a uniform and often harmful approach has been developed throughout the national territory, consisting of blocking the evolution of the PLU – local urban planning plans –, communal maps and the national urban planning regulations. The fashionable expression is now this: "zero net artificialization". While for decades it has been urban sprawl that makes agricultural land disappear, rural areas are being stifled without a blow with harsh constraints that it would be preferable to reserve for cities and their peripheries. It is therefore a big bet that to proportionately and nuance the application of rules sometimes inappropriate to the local realities of territories that are trying to energize and develop their appeal. Submitting to the same toise an extension of area of several dozen hectares aimed at establishing an Ikea store and the creation of an area of activity in Saint-Quentin-les-Chardonnets in order to install an SME, this seems completely delusional. Addressing the problem of agricultural land, and therefore rural land, requires a differentiated approach, depending on whether urban areas, large users of space, or rural areas, needing subdivisions to avoid population collapse, industrial areas to maintain jobs and fast lanes for their inhabitants to move safely and more quickly. To return to the text that brings us together, the proposed amendments to Articles L. 333-1 to L. 333-5 of the Rural and Maritime Code will allow for the control of transfers of land through member structures. This will cover a blind spot in the current legislation, ending a breach of equality depending on whether the owners are natural persons or companies. The establishment of an excessive enlargement threshold accompanies these measures. However, we must ensure that the scheme does not violate property rights abruptly. For this, and despite some progress to be made in committee a few days ago, it is important to clarify several points. In order to promote the specificity of our agriculture, which is often passed on from generation to generation, administrative control should be reduced or abolished when it concerns intra-family transfer operations. We therefore propose to exempt transactions between parents up to the fourth or third degree, in order to protect the French farm, as we have known it for decades. Moreover, why does the text give such power to regional prefects? Since the merger of the regions, they have been immense – I would say that they have sometimes far exceeded "an excessive enlargement threshold". The examination would be much more fine and tailor-made if it were entrusted to the departmental prefects. This would allow a closer appreciation of local and more functional agricultural realities. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This text has the virtue to place the issue of land on the legislative front and to regulate the particular and technical subject of land societies. In the medium term, it must also push us to change our regulations more comprehensively, in order to introduce more transparency in land management by SAFER, by the administration and by other actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u44	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u45	Agricultural land is shrinking, farm size is increasing and the number of farmers is collapsing. We see this reality every day, not only in terms of numbers, but also, and above all, thanks to the feedback from our farmers. I am one of them, and I can only be concerned about the non-renewal of generations, the difficulties of setting up young farmers and the grabbing of agricultural land, which is now a source of great tension. The observation is without appeal: in France, the average price of agricultural land per hectare doubled between 1995 and 2010. Four times fewer farmers than 40 years ago; One in three farmers leaving for retirement is not replaced and half of the current farmers will retire in ten years. When I settled in, stopping the expansion of the family farm was not self-evident. I took over from my father and grandfather before him. They had experienced the Thirty Glorious, with the mechanization of agriculture and the development of intensive agriculture, to be part of a now globalized demand. These structural developments, experienced by some as progress, have taken their share of drifts. The societal phenomenon, considered today as the dead end of regulation, is an example of this. The grouping of companies has gradually developed in view of its advantages: pooling of skills, sharing of responsibilities, increased flexibility in the organisation of work, flexibility of such a tool during transmissions, dissociation of personal and professional assets, and so on. There are many examples. Grouping into a society also often exempts itself from structural control, which is the cornerstone of land policy. Agricultural land is relatively cheap compared to neighbouring countries. Where, in France, the price per hectare is often around 6000 euros, in Germany, Italy and England the amounts are much higher; they even go up to 50000 euros in Belgium or the Netherlands. Agricultural land has become a secure investment, even beyond any agricultural consideration. It is the object of many lusts and the associate mounts with or without associate operators are formidable tools to radically reverse the balance of forces to the detriment of individual operators. It seems essential today to put an end to the breach of equality between natural persons, who fall under regulation and assignees of social securities, who escape it. In 2019, corporate shares accounted for 7% of the sector's transactions and 17% of the market value. Let's be clear, that means that €1.2 billion of transactions have thus escaped control. Our reflection must not lead to opposing models that each has their own usefulness. In fact, this bill does not do so. On the other hand, in view of the total lack of control over many transactions, it is highly desirable to allow the regulation of access to agricultural land through the membership structures. Behind the land grabbing inevitably lies the uniformity of cultivation, of which we know the direct link with the collapse of biodiversity and the impoverishment of soil. France's land policy cannot, however, be limited to the control of shares, even if it is absolutely necessary. In the future, there will also need to be a better framework for emerging practices such as comprehensive work, which tends to allow agriculture without farmers. I know that the question of the definition of active farmers is at the heart of European discussions, and I hope, Mr Minister, that you will make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u47	In addition, at some point in time, we will surely have to take up the issue of SAFER governance, the subject of many fantasies often far removed from reality. In any case, a great power requires great transparency. In the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group, we are making the choice for better land sharing, based on both social and local considerations, because we are absolutely committed to human-scale agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u48	Like us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u49	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We are therefore in favour of regulating access to agricultural land to limit excesses and circumventions. This bill will allow us to bring an important stone to this project. On behalf of my group, I would therefore like to commend the work carried out by Jean-Bernard Sempastous and his team and to indicate, as you will understand, that we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u50	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u51	Established in 1960, the SAFE are responsible for acquiring land or agricultural holdings freely offered for sale by their owners, as well as uncultivated land, intended to be returned after possible development, with the aim, inter alia, of improving agrarian structures, increasing the area of certain agricultural holdings and facilitating the cultivation of soil and the installation of farmers. More simply, the SAFER are the State's arbiters in terms of territorial planning and agricultural policy, in order to best support farmers, especially those who settle, by preempting land if necessary to prevent it from becoming a commercial or other building. Today, more than ever, the SAFE must be able to play their full part, because our agricultural system is in tension and a new form of arbitration is needed. Indeed, with the phenomenon of artificialisation of soils, agricultural land is becoming scarce. Yet, and this has been felt during the health crisis, agriculture is an integral part of our autonomy, and therefore of our national sovereignty. If the SAFE intervenes without too much difficulty when it is a transaction between individuals, it is not uncommon for the rules regulating access to land to be circumvented when a company, a legal person, comes into play. This spanning of the SAFE sometimes calls into question their effectiveness, which so far was based on the knowledge of a family farm model in which farms are held by natural persons. From now on, farms tend to be structured in the form of legal persons, as confirmed by INSEE in 2020. In almost forty years, while farm size has increased, farmers' share of employment has declined sharply, from 7.1% in 1982 to 1.5% in 2019. This is a major phenomenon, since legal entities now operate almost two thirds of the useful agricultural area and the corporate market represents the equivalent of one fifth of the value of the land market. The Court of Auditors also revealed that in 2014, 275 transactions took place for a value of EUR 132 million; in just four years, this number has literally exploded, with 8611 operations worth 1.1 billion euros. In the face of this phenomenon, SAFEs often find it difficult to exercise their role as regulators of the agricultural land market, since they can only intervene when the company that sells is 100% bought by the company that buys. It is only on this condition that SAFEs can exercise their right of preemption. It is therefore necessary to change the rules so that the SAFER can continue their missions. One of them is to support the exploitation of human-sized agricultural land for farmers, by farmers, especially the younger ones. This is one of the objectives of the proposed law, which aims, in particular, – it is its flagship measure – to subject to administrative authorization the transfer of securities relating to companies holding or operating agricultural land, only if the transaction confers control of that company on the transferee and meets the criteria set out locally for excessive concentration or land grabbing. If there is a certain consensus to strengthen the powers of the SAFE, let us not be fooled. Sometimes they intervene in a way, let's say arbitrary, in certain transactions. I have in mind examples of wine transactions which have nothing to do with the protection of young farmers, but which have on the contrary allowed large groups to buy a particular property. To deny the political drift of some SAFE, which is not always alien to the prefect who validates their decisions, would be blindness. However, most of them play their part and play it well. In the Hérault, my department, the winemakers recognize the important work of the SAFER, which offers land at advantageous prices: between 5000 and 8000 euros per hectare, whereas they could be sold 13000 euros per hectare naked. This is a great boost when you know that you have to add to the purchase price 20,000 euros of plans and plying on average. [[Mr. Dino Cinieri applauds]] Because this text is perceived by the majority of farmers as a balance point, I will of course vote for it. But I also call for a broader reform in order to promote a real development of the territory and the diversity of its production systems. It is on this condition that agriculture will meet a twofold need: to provide farmers with a fair income corresponding to their labor and to contribute to France's sovereignty in agricultural matters. It is important to promote agriculture and viticulture, which shape landscapes and participate in cultural heritage. At home, in the South, viticulture is more than just agricultural production: it is a geography, a history, a civilization; They're just our roots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u52	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u53	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u54	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u55	I would like to place Article 1 in relation to the general discussion. It is not in any way a question of supporting the status quo or the proposal of Jean-Bernard Sempastous, but of evaluating various legislative proposals that achieve the objective that we seem to share in view of the general discussion. Together with academics, farmers' organizations and citizens, the Socialist and related group has built very concrete proposals, in the dynamic of the information report that we provided. The one we are going to defend in the context of the examination of Article 1e r is the same thing: not to create a privileged path, a royal way, for the societal phenomenon that we intend to fight and regulate, but to treat all applicants in a republican way, with the same thresholds and criteria. That is the spirit that will inspire us in the debates: to develop a republican system that applies to each other. For a long time, land ownership and use were regulated, notably by the Pisani laws and the status of rent, according to a balance that satisfied everyone. And then a new phenomenon was born, the corporate phenomenon: uncontrolled public limited companies, which shake all the usual rules between labour and capital. They create a network of influence whose power can totally distort our agricultural and food models. That is what we must fight and, to do so, we must not, once again, open a privileged path: we must, in a republican spirit, treat everyone in the same way. Minister, I am asking you now: together with Julien Dive, Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Jean-Michel Clément, we sent you a letter in January asking you to refer the matter to the Council of State, in order to see if the usual threshold of control for all peasants could be accepted for the societies. You didn't follow it up; I deeply regret that, because we would have had the information that is missing today. Of course, the Council of State says we can control from 500 to 1000 hectares. The question we were asking was whether it is possible to do so from 50 to 100 hectares, as the regions decided for the control threshold. Unfortunately, we do not have an answer, but there is no reason to say that the Council of State prohibits us from following our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u56	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u57	It seemed interesting to me, Mr.Minister, to link our committee work with the debates that we are entering into. Why? Because some, especially Dominique Potier, regret not having a big land bill. I would like to recall that in four years we had four ministers of agriculture: Jacques Mézard, Stéphane Travert, Didier Guillaume and now Julien Denormandie. The latter is big enough to defend himself...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u58	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u59	... but I still wanted to note that, for the past year, the Minister for Agriculture has been focusing on European issues and the common agricultural policy. It seems to me important to say this and to share it with as many people as possible: with my experience as a Member of Parliament, I find it fair-play that the minister does not appropriate the subject of land in relation to agricultural themes – it is so rare! On this subject, the initiative is left to parliamentarians, to a Member of Parliament who carries out parliamentary work that focuses on a small subject – which is not, however, thin: the social shares. In June, trade relations will be discussed. The Minister of Agriculture could have appropriated the subjects and said "EGALIM 2, it's me," but he let Gregory Besson-Moreau table his bill with other parliamentarians. I have been sitting in the Chamber since 2007, and then say that it is rare to see ministers let the parliamentary initiative flourish. I want to say it, because it's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u61	Cirage!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u62	[[Mr. André Villiers applauds]] In addition, this bill focuses solely on the regulation of shares. This subject is of real interest, but we will have to avoid two pitfalls: the first is the notion of family filiation, mentioned in the general discussion by André Villiers on behalf of the IDU and independent group. In the farming profession, there is an intrinsic attachment to the land, and the notion of family filiation – some talk about family farming – is valuable. The second regulatory challenge is the notion of price, which must be preserved or at least controlled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u63	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u64	Article 1 r tells us everything and at the same time – and perhaps he does not tell us anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u65	It's a habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u66	It exposes all the evils observed so far, which lead us to question ourselves: how to regulate access to land for young farmers? We need to talk about them, in other words, the renewal of the generations we need. For some years now, the invention had been in power; Imagination above all. The assembly was followed by the dismemberment of ownership, the provision of tenure, the provision of land in society by family members, and the transfer of land to third parties. All the techniques were used to lead to the diversion of the main objective, which was to regulate land. When we reread the article, we see that it lays the foundations for everything we have criticized so far. But the complexity that comes out of it makes me doubt; I said it during the general discussion. When we look at the provisions in practice, when we see the questions asked and the time it takes to move from one operation to another, when we arrive at the end of the article, we really do not see it very clearly. Things will continue as before, because complexity has been invited, because imagination and invention will always be there. Those who claimed to buy land to exploit it or to rent it will be deprived of it. We had at our disposal a simple element: the control of structures. It's old as the world, but if we had updated it and adapted it to current operating patterns, we would have the answer to our questions, while tonight we won't have them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u67	Mr Patrice Perrot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u68	The preservation of agricultural land is a major public policy issue with regard to the sustainability of the agricultural model, the preservation of the environment, the vitality of the territories and rural jobs. I really want to commend the work of Jean-Bernard Sempastous, whose bill is the result of high-quality parliamentary and field work. I thank him again for visiting the Nièvre in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u69	The SAFEs, I remind you, are not for profit. Their interventions are regulated by law, which assigns them objectives of general interest. With regard to the division of roles between SAFE and the State, the mechanism proposed by the text is pragmatic and transparent. The compensation devices combine the accumulated large area criterion with the achievement of fundamental objectives. These correspond to the contribution that can be made by projects to the development of the territory, to the diversity of production systems, to the installation or to the consolidation needs of farmers already installed. The intervention of SAFEs in this procedure is primarily aimed at pragmatism and efficiency, as SAFEs are already informed prior to all transactions on the corporate market. The bill is not intended to stigmatise all company takeovers in the agricultural sector, but rather to create a new regulatory tool to combat the misuse of corporate forms. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Food sovereignty, agroecology, land use planning, especially rural areas, and economic dynamism: this is the fight of the majority since 2017, and this text will, I am sure, embody a rapid and effective response in line with the territorial agricultural peculiarities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u70	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u71	At a time when the renewal of generations of farmers is a matter of great concern and the attractiveness of the trade is undermined by the problems of remuneration and charges, access to land is a key parameter in meeting the challenge that French agriculture will face in the coming decades. In this context, this proposal for a law is, no doubt rightly, intended to remedy the inadequacy of the tools for regulating agricultural land, in order to combat the phenomena of concentration and excessive land grabbing of agricultural land, particularly on the member market. The objective, to which I subscribe, is therefore to counter the phenomenon of grabbing and concentration of French land, including by foreign investors, by using the corporate market to acquire an increasingly important share of land, to the detriment of certain agricultural models, environmental wealth and soil, as well as the economic and social vitality of the sector in our territories. This article therefore forms the core of the text as it creates a new regime for the control of transactions involving companies owning or operating agricultural land. The commission has made changes in order to find the right balance, which is essential if certain owners and investors are not to be destabilized. [[Mr. Dino Cinieri applauds]] However, as has been said, this text cannot be enough to solve all the difficulties in this area. It must be the first floor of the rocket. Once again, we can only regret the eternal double standards on form: when we defend a bill, you always object to it by invoking a future reform of a more comprehensive substance, and that is far from the case of this text. Minister, don't forget the other stages of the rocket – we will at least make you proposals to build them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u73	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u74	It is a welcome text, a proposal for an emergency law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u75	The agricultural land of Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u76	... which aims to take into account the phenomena previously exposed: the massive retirements to come among farmers, the scarcity of agricultural land, concentration, opacity. We have had an opportunity to discuss this, Mr rapporteur; You have given me the striking example of societal constructions that allow us to hide the agricultural reality of the land. It is therefore a welcome and urgent proposal for a law which does not purport to regulate everything and which relies on existing mechanisms, in particular that of the SAFE, to stop the phenomenon and subject it to control. So I will support her. However, the devil is in the details. Some issues remain; the debates in committee were not enough to make me consider that they were resolved, especially those relating to the threshold of triggering control – the famous "significant widening threshold" that you evoke: how to determine it? I expected a lot from the simulation you presented, but I stayed on my hunger. We are talking about a coefficient which is fixed between one and three times the average regional useful agricultural area. Why the coefficient? What changes does its application change at the threshold? I understand that discussions have taken place with agricultural unions and that a trend has emerged. One wonders, however, what are the implications of the threshold on concentration. How do I set this threshold? Why make a distinction between the general structural control threshold and the threshold that will apply to companies? Mr. Turquois, for example, has explained well that the assembly in the company makes it possible to escape the control of the structures. Why, therefore, do not apply the same threshold? Similarly, why did you add certain exceptions? This is an emergency bill, which aims at simplicity. Let us keep it simple, ladies and gentlemen: there is no need to add to it too complex exceptions, which will be as many breaches by which people will inevitably be able to step in and escape control over and over again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u77	On the identical amendments Nos 48 and 142, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 46 and 141. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u78	It is intended to replace Article 1e r with the measures which the Socialist and related groups had defended in their own bill. Again, the objective is the same, with very simple benchmarks, from article L. 331-1 of the Rural Code and the Maritime Fisheries, which clearly sets the priorities of structural control: the installation and consolidation of farms. Furthermore, the amendment tends to define as thresholds those already applied to structural policy. We are part of this regulatory policy, because we believe that this bill tends to introduce an exorbitant expansion permit, which will have consequences on the duty to operate. I could even say that this authorization for expansion given to companies, in contexts which are out of the ordinary compared to the common agricultural world, will create a motorway for enlargement: it will tarnish what is today only a crossing road. It may be feared that the authorization to operate, in this way given to these companies, which have nothing to do with farmers but which aim to control the agricultural world, will completely escape the usual regulation of the control of structures. The policy we are defending is immensely simple. It follows the rules of the Republic: if we have to change the policy of structures, we have to change it for everyone, but there can be no double standards: on the one hand, there cannot be modest applicants, workers, farmers, agricultural entrepreneurs, and, on the other, societies that enjoy a singular privilege.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u79	I call Mr Cédric Villani to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u80	As Dominique Potier has explained, whose long-standing commitment to these vital issues of land sharing for reasons of equity, good agriculture and ecology is well known, there is no reason to apply double standards to farmers and societies – that is, to any legal person – who would like to file a file of enlargement. The same threshold must apply to everyone. It is a question of fairness, simplification and, in the absence of specific information showing that a given threshold could in practice have more consequences than another, let us keep the simplicity. The single threshold guarantees simplicity and fairness; It will avoid legitimizing a preference for assembly in society, which precisely we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u81	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these two identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u82	Since these are the first two amendments, my explanations will be a little long, particularly as regards the threshold, which will be much discussed with other amendments. I referred in committee to the genesis of the text: the operative part was drawn up in consultation with the actors in the agricultural profession, and designed to meet their expectations. The aim is to target excess. The profession validated this threshold, considering that it was consistent with the objective to be achieved. Technically, it is a heavy device, as you will have seen when reading the text. It must not affect operations involving small areas: this is a guarantee of proportionality which the Council of State has stressed is necessary to respect the Constitution, which protects the right to property, the freedom to undertake and the free movement of capital, as is the case with European law. A new tool must have its own scope. The purpose of this scheme is to control the cumulation of areas in operation, i.e. used for agricultural purposes, as well as in ownership, even if the land has only an agricultural purpose. We had to free ourselves from the control of the structures because it did not meet these needs. It concerns only exploitation and, as you know, has weaknesses in some territories. Aligning the necessary threshold here with that of structural control would also be meaningless. Moreover, a threshold thus defined cannot be adapted, since it would apply only to land developed for agricultural purposes, and not to land held in unexploited ownership, which must be accounted for. Our system is innovative in that it considers ownership and non-operator status. The operating threshold cannot be duplicated, as it is a threshold for economic viability. It was therefore necessary to create an ad hoc threshold. Clearly, we do not control the same thing, and economic viability does not mean excess. Our device controls excess, which is characterized by a combination of criteria which you could read the definition in the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u84	Disadvantaged too. My explanation will also respond to some of the comments made during the general discussion and interventions on the article. There is no doubt that we all have the same objective: to bring into the field of controls excessive acquisitions of participation in the form of a member. The question is to define the best way to reach it. Two visions oppose each other, after a very technical debate, but one of its importance, because the devil nests in detail. On the one hand, the proposal for a law aims to create a new system of authorisation, based on the characteristics of the members' forms and on excessive participation thresholds, i.e. one to three times the regional average useful agricultural area (SAUMR). The position defended by Dominique Potier and Cédric Villani is to extend the control of structures through the threshold that the law already sets for this purpose, namely the departmental threshold. This, however, is sometimes lower than the one proposed in the text, but it happens, I call the collegial attention on this point, that it is not more than once the regional useful agricultural area average. It is therefore a matter of choosing the best scheme. This proposal for a law aims to distinguish between the control of structures and that of members. I share that position. Indeed, the objects are not the same and each has its own specificities. Let us take an example: in the framework of the control of structures, an authorization is or is not given. There is no authorization under duress. This is quite logical: a farmer asks if he has the permission to operate; We answer it by yes or no – and, in reality, often yes. The case of member control is very different. The company may own land which may or may not be exploited by the person, or not at all, and which may or may not be agricultural land – I would refer you to the rapporteur's statement on this point. Thus, the application of the text we are considering may lead to the answer yes, subject to conditions. The conditions are, for example, compensatory measures: the acquisition of holdings that will exceed the threshold will only be allowed in return for the transfer of land to young farmers who want to settle. The control of structures does not allow such a device to be applied. I am sorry for the technicality of this debate, but, in my view, it is necessary to answer clearly the fundamental question of whether to extend the control of structures to include the members' shares or to create two separate regimes, one for structures and the other for the members' shares. The texts come from different approaches. I see it. To speak sincerely, there are better specialists in this subject than I do in the Chamber. Like many, I have sought to work precisely on the bill, and I have forged a conviction. I believe that it is not possible to broaden the scope of control of structures, because we compare different objects: we must create an ad hoc system of corporate shares. Another example: there are measures to exempt the control of structures, but they cannot be applied in the field of membership, even if – in response to Thierry Benoît – I am prepared to make further progress on the issue of family farms, on which several Members will make proposals. The exemptions I have just mentioned would in any case not apply to the members' shares because they relate to concrete activities carried out by natural persons, whereas the companies are legal persons. At this point in the debate, that is the clarification I wanted to bring. In my view, it is necessary to dissociate the two regimes. Nevertheless, I humbly acknowledge that I do not know whether the future will give us full reason. In any case, a tedious and precise work has forged this conviction in me. The explanation may give the impression that it is only the thickness of the line, but it is not. This is a new approach and I believe it is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u85	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u86	By listening to you, minister, I was already imagining all the subtleties through which some could divert the letter from the text to their benefit. When we look at the organisation of exploitation structures, we see an entanglement of real rights, personal rights, various and varied property rights, with securities that can be given or transferred. Skilled practitioners will know how to use the full range at their disposal, and what you expect will not happen because it will be impossible to say anything other than yes! The SAFE, supposed to validate the operation, will face such complexity that they will have no choice but to remain silent, as foreseen in the text, and, two months later, authorisation will be given. The binary proposal – an authorisation is issued or not – is the simplest, since it places on the same footing individual companies and corporate members, as Cédric Villani and Dominique Potier have said. There is no alternative to giving clarity to the text. As I said, Article 1 introduces complexity, the first amendments confirm this. Those who will be linking our debates tomorrow will find solutions to divert the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u87	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u88	These amendments have two disturbing ideas. First idea, society would be a danger to agriculture. On the contrary, society can be a very interesting tool to modernise agriculture, to support farmers in their projects for their exploitation, for example, to create added value in addition to production, or to transform the sectors in our territories – I am thinking of short circuits. Often, incorporation is necessary to structure projects and protect farmers from the risks they take by innovating and developing new activities in the territories. The use of this tool should be facilitated. The existence of companies in the agricultural field is therefore not a problem, on the contrary. Second, Mr.Villani used a shock formula: "double standards". No, these are two different situations and two different ways of dealing with them: one cannot consider a natural person and a legal person in the same way. It is pure right: the rights attached to a natural person cannot be the same as those of a legal person. The legal regimes must be different. While land laws and SAFER were designed to combat excessive concentration and grabbing by natural persons, similar tools for legal persons are now needed. The provisions seem to me to be quite appropriate. These amendments are from another time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u89	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u90	I did not follow the debates in committee, but I listened to the various speeches, in particular that of the Minister for Agriculture. I do not share the choice that has been made. The solution would have been to identify in the accounts of society what land represents. At present, company law does not allow, in an accounting balance sheet, to accurately assess what land really represents, since there are mixed shares which may be of a different nature. Company law might have had to be changed by introducing a specificity for the agricultural sector, but this would have required a more important text. Since such a choice has not been made, SAFEs are not able to accurately assess what land represents, which creates difficulties. You have chosen to introduce a specific regime for companies, separate from the control of structures. Moreover, the assembly of companies allows to create a myriad of structures – one dedicated to exploitation, the other to staff, a third to commercialization – that maintain the most complete blur. Why such an opposition? Because, without going so far as to call it DIY – it is not at all – the text is a small law, if I may say so. It would have been necessary to go much further to avoid the problems that were raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u91	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u92	Yes, company assembly can have advantages; It can be interesting and a factor of progress in many cases. Contrary to what Mr Schellenberger implies, I do not claim that companies should be systematically attacked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u93	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u94	But in some situations, assembly in society gives rise to drifts – this is very well explained in Mr Sempastous's report. Some montages go quite in the right direction, while others lead to grabbing, concentration and opacity. Two or three companies can be joined together, their owners are installed somewhere in Delaware, while the field seems to be operating in France. In the face of pressure and considerable peasant malaise, we had to legislate as a matter of urgency. I do not invent the examples, they were discussed with the rapporteur. I hear your argument that it is necessary to distinguish between natural persons and legal persons, exploitation and possession, which justifies the establishment of different thresholds and procedures. However, the differential between the structural control threshold and the significant expansion threshold has the effect of encouraging the operator to form a company to acquire land. He'll be more likely to go under radar. The scheme establishes a break in equality between models that we want to maintain on the same footing, not to attack one, but simply to maintain fairness. If it is necessary to establish another threshold, why keep a ratio of one to three, not two? The simulation proposed by the rapporteur mentions a factor of two, but why not four, one or zero decimal five? This is arbitrariness. It is in the complexity that the proof must be given, while simplicity is required by default.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u95	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u96	Article 1 is the core of the draft law, presented as the first part of a comprehensive land reform, aimed at remedying the inadequacy of the tools for regulating agricultural land, in order to combat the concentration and excessive grabbing of agricultural land, particularly through the membership market. The farmers of the Loire, with whom Mrs Sylvie Bonnet and I were able to exchange, believe that Article 1 is suitable for the territory of the Niger, which has always made the choice of regulation and control of land,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u97	Very well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u98	... in order to promote the facilities and transmissions of our family-scale farms. It is, in fact, urgent to control excessive enlargements, carried out under the guise of associate montages in order to circumvent the existing texts. Such land grabbing by large structures such as SAS – simplified stock companies –, SCEA – civil farm companies – or SA – public limited companies – deprives territories of any attractiveness. In addition, farms are so large that they are no longer transmissible. I'm thinking about our Chinese friends. It is therefore necessary to be firm on the thresholds of excessive enlargement, which must not exceed the range of one to three times the regional average, while ensuring that transfers of family shares are not exempt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u99	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u100	Thresholds raise the question of republican fairness. To take the image of a radar installed on a departmental road or on a motorway, while the authorized limit would be set at 62 hectares, which corresponds to the area of the average farm in France, article 1 allows a company to run at three times 62 kilometres per hour, or 186 kilometres per hour. Those who want to drive quickly, at the risk of collective insecurity, especially food, will be able to borrow this legislative vehicle and create a society that will give them de facto authorization to operate: in fact, under the current legal forms, a company can be incorporated without rent, nor operator, but simply by relying on employees and delegated management. In short, we indirectly install a two-speed radar, and we build a preferred path for expansion, which we denounce. I would like to reassure André Chassaigne, an article of the law of 20 March 2017 on the fight against agricultural land grabbing and the development of biocontrol, plans to separate agricultural assets from other assets in companies in order to ensure the transparency that we call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u101	This is not being applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u102	It is not applied for technical reasons...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u103	Constitutional!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u104	We propose to strengthen it in a joint amendment that we will consider at a later stage. Finally, important point, under the proposed legislation, the absence of a response from the administration is tantamount to authorization. The amendment provides, as a precaution, that the absence of a response from the administration is tantamount to refusal, which is completely different.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u105	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u106	Nor did I attend the committee, but Rule 1 is fairly well written, in particular its paragraphs 5 and 6. Depending on the region, the threshold can range from one to three times the UAA, a not completely abstract notion that we know well. Current farms can take various forms: agricultural land groups, which own land and do not operate; agricultural land groupings make it a direct value that exploits; other types of companies; and, based on current trends, EACS, SAS and commercial companies. The text aims to avoid the drifts we know with the latter. In this regard, it is also well written, since it mentions ownership and enjoyment. By introducing the complicated notion of structure, you risk making a text that is relatively simple and – I say modestly – covers the whole spectrum of problems of this type of operation. The adoption of the amendments would not improve a text that I think is clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u107	I think it's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u108	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u109	My colleague Dominique Potier paid tribute to Minister Edgard Pisani – he is used to doing so and I am accustomed to replying to him that Minister Pisani would not have done anything without professional officials carrying a project. I would like to pay tribute to Michel Debatisse,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u111	... which at the time represented the Young Farmers, and which defended legislative changes necessary to make land accessible to young farmers so that they could develop their professional project. Do professionals ask us to remove companies? No. They invented: the GAEC – a joint farming group –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u113	... the EARL – a limited-liability farm – and others. They are tools of emancipation, designed to secure their activity, and to protect their privacy. Indeed, if an individual farmer is in difficulty with his bank, everything passes there – his home, his personal wealth, everything – while a society allows to protect privacy. However, society can also be perverted and transformed into a tool of land speculation; It can be used to circumvent inheritance rights, to take over land – sometimes foreign powers want to invest and control agricultural activities in a country. That is what we must fight. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] The answer you are giving us, Minister, and the way you are charting are the right ones: we must clearly target the control of companies, and not involve it in the control of structures, whose aim is to check whether the activities are compatible with departmental and local plans. The bill must give us the tools to improve corporate control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u114	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u115	Dominique Potier knows this perfectly well, in terms of size, we cannot compare a cereal farm with a farm dedicated to polyculture and breeding. It is obvious that the prefect of the region must be given his hand, because the size criterion has a completely different meaning depending on the type of exploitation: more than 100 calvings per human work unit, that is, by UTH, it is strictly impossible, whereas one can imagine more than 200 hectares per work unit. It therefore depends on the type of farm and this is the reason why the prefect of the region must be given his hand and he must admit different assessments according to the type of production. On the other hand, societies are not absolute evil. Today, the profitability of capital is very low, whereas in the polyculture of livestock, which I know well, the investment needs are enormous, not only in land but also in all matters relating to livestock farming. It is therefore necessary to restore profitability to farms – this is the whole purpose of the EGALIM law...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u116	It's missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u117	You didn't make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u118	... and Grégory Besson-Moreau's future bill to protect farmers' remuneration. As long as the farmer, the head of the farm, retains control over the strategic direction and management of his farm, investors in agricultural land should not be seen as those who embody absolute evil. Tomorrow we will need capital investment all the more as more and more young people are settling out of the family, since the renewal of generations cannot guarantee the food sovereignty of France, or even of Europe. External investors are therefore a necessity and condemn them a priori is the result of a poor analysis of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u119	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u120	A number of speakers spoke of French agriculture as if it were an industrial agriculture; And we are in a family farming system. I would like to stress here the work done by the agricultural organisations and the farmers themselves: we are dealing with a profession which has self-managed and which, thanks to the SAFER and the chambers of agriculture, has made sure to share the production tool. Is there only one other profession that has been able to do the same? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u121	Craftsmen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u122	It is on this precious foundation that a family agriculture develops that produces high-quality food and allows us to be largely self-sufficient. We may want to improve the system further, but we must ensure that investors whose sole objective is to enrich themselves through agricultural land cannot enter the capital of certain companies. The fact that young farmers are no longer settling down today is not necessarily because of the lack of agricultural land, but mainly because of the lack of money. The real problem of agriculture and installation, as you know, Minister, is farm incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u123	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u124	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u125	The purpose of this amendment is to delete paragraph 4 of a general and declaratory nature, which is too vague to have a real effect and without any mandatory provision; It is more about announcing an ambition than a piece of legislation. Moreover, the imprecise nature of the ambitions displayed puts the risk of a subjective interpretation of the objectives put forward, however laudable they may be. The statements are one thing, the legal measures are another, and to confuse the two would in my view be a mistake. The objectives referred to may be set out in the explanatory memorandum but have no place in the scheme, where they could affect, in this case, the quality and effectiveness of a text which contains good measures to favour local farms and avoid concentrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u127	It is not possible to delete the reference to the objectives of the scheme, which have been extensively discussed with the Council of State. In its opinion, the Court recalled that the proportionality of the arrangements was assessed by the Constitutional Court in the light of the objectives pursued. This paragraph is therefore not hollow and is justified for technical reasons validated by the Council of State. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u128	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u129	This amendment by Emmanuelle Anthoine, which is intended to correct an omission in the rewriting of paragraph 4 during the examination of the text in committee, is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u131	I am in favour of this amendment, which reintroduces a clarification that has disappeared when the paragraph is rewritten in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u132	It's thanks to the vigilance of the Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u133	Thank you for your acuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u134	Mr Jacques Cattin has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u135	This proposal for a law, which aims to combat the phenomena of concentration and excessive land grabbing of agricultural land through, in particular, the corporate market, is justified because this land is the working tool of farmers and is the condition for the renewal of generations. Some territories are very coveted, others are seeking facilities or investors; This depends very much on the situation and the potential of the terroirs, but this depends mainly on the sectors, especially in the viticulture, organised around specific territories and limited geographically. In these circumstances, the acquisition of terroirs by investors outside the profession or abroad convinces us that the market must be regulated according to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u137	The wine sector is composed of both producers and market makers, who are sometimes the same. In order to remain on the market through the sustainability of a supply in line with demand, our wine-growing companies must have an adequate amount of land, especially if, after extensive exploration work, they have found export outlets. Selling and valuing wine is governed by specific rules which are not those applicable to agricultural products sold on local markets or on the national market. When you are referenced, you must ensure qualitative and quantitative monitoring, often compromised by climatic hazards. There is also a need to maintain equity between market makers, including independent winemakers, co-operative producers and traders, who can also be processors. This amendment therefore proposes to exclude wine-growing land from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u139	The vines are confronted with the problem of buying by foreign companies, especially in the Bordelais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u140	It's grabbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u141	However, you wish to exclude them from the scheme, even though the French vineyards are not immune from such grabbing, by means of the association mounts. Paragraph 8 specifies that the equivalence coefficients shall be taken into account in viticulture, as in all other crops, in the calculation of the significant expansion threshold. However, we are aware of the specificity of the wine – it was in Champagne and Burgundy that I made my last two trips. The inter-occupation that I have encountered on several occasions has highlighted the difficulties posed by the bill. The latter inspired Mrs Aina Kuric an amendment which we are going to consider seeking written advice from the inter-professions. It will therefore be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u143	I will have the same opinion for the same reasons. If we all agree to take account of the specific nature of the wine sector, whether at regional level, with weighting, or in the regulatory field, it would not be fair to exclude the wine sector from the scheme. To the extent that the wine sector is included in the system of structural control, it is logical to keep it in the scheme, which transposes the scheme taking account of the specificities of the members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u144	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u145	The provisions of Article 1 establish not only an exceptional threshold which is equivalent to three times the regional average – I have taken the example of 180 hectares, where the other applicants are subject to control from 62 hectares – but also a measure which does not leave us surprised: the one which provides that beyond this threshold, considered excessive or significant by the rapporteur, the SAFE Technical Committee grants a derogation to an undertaking which, by taking control of the land company, contributes to the creation of jobs, to the support of ecology, to food security, etc. I have already asked the rapporteur in committee the question: is there only one example of taking control that cannot be justified by such vague criteria? I'm afraid not. When we set a speed limit that is already three times higher than the common limit and, in addition, we allow derogations if the aim justifies speeding, we are no longer in double standards, but in a form of disproportionateness, which is a call to break the common rule, which, I repeat, is the sine qua non for the establishment of young farmers and the consolidation of farms which need to be able to do so, in short, of everything that shapes our French landscape. I want to tell Jean-Baptiste Moreau that I know too much about agricultural issues to condemn societies: the agricultural world is full of societies! The question is not society as a legal vehicle, but its purpose. The control process is not intended to prohibit but to require everyone to prove that the projects are justified by the needs and means of the territory concerned. Finally, Jean-Baptiste Moreau defended the prerogatives of the prefect. In my view, there is no better contract between the state and civil society than the control of structures. It is the result of a very long consultation between the profession and the state apparatus, and in my view is the best guarantor of what can bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u147	Mr Potier strongly disagrees and suggests deleting twenty-eight paragraphs from our bill, which has been adopted by a large majority in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u148	Wide, wide...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u149	I do not, of course, want this deletion and am surprised at your willingness to delete from the text the procedures which you are basing yourself largely on in your alternative proposal, where you take exactly my elements. A pure and simple deletion of the authorisation procedure would obviously render the text irrelevant or ineffective. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u151	It will also be an unfavorable opinion. I would also like to point out that the decision will not be taken by the SAFER Technical Committee. If the educated SAFER, it is always the administrative authority that decides as a last resort and bears the responsibility for it. Secondly, it is not a derogation granted to the title – I no longer know exactly what term you used – of contributions to the territories. The text states that the instruction takes into account the benefits of the projects and introduces the possibility of granting the authorisation under conditions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u152	He's here, the danger!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u153	...that is, the result is not white or black as in the case of structural control. This may involve the release of land other than that just acquired or the granting of a long lease to young farmers to allow them to settle. The text modifies the possibilities of acceptance and can subject it to compensation, which is still very different. Finally, in response to your accusation of introducing a two-speed system, let us keep in mind that at present the control of structures is similar to a radar that would operate once in two, if not less, since it only applies in the event of competition...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u154	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u155	... whereas, under the membership regime, control would be carried out in all cases. To take your image from the radar, we are not all subjected to the same speed on the road, depending on the vehicle used. It is therefore logical to provide for different controls depending on the object being controlled, depending on whether it is an operator or a company. That is the balance sought. I stress that the derogation measures are not intended to introduce derogations as such – there are other paragraphs for this – but to allow compensation, such as the release of land for young people wishing to settle. It's very different. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u156	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u157	As I said in committee and I repeat here, the text is a source of inequity – I am not aiming at double standards, to which Mr Potier refers – between French operators and foreign investors, whom you will never control. In the absence of an answer, in the draft law, to the concern that the situation gives rise to, we would like commitments from you, Mr Minister, and from the rapporteur: the French farmer could be prevented from developing his farm as much as he would like, while a larger operator – Luxembourg, Belgium or Germany, to cite the examples I know in the East of France – could buy land in France, regardless of what he already owns in his country of origin. As you know, we will lack farmers in the years to come. If we limit the size of French farms and fail to encourage young people to choose the agricultural profession and settle, foreign investors, be they Luxembourgish, Belgian, but also Chinese or Russian,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u158	The Russians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u159	...is likely to be more and more numerous. At the same time, large French investors are at risk of investing in Ukraine or Romania, because they cannot do so in France. We will therefore be confronted with a seizure of French agricultural land by foreigners, when our French currencies will be used to invest in land abroad. This is a real source of concern to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u160	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u161	As I am obliged to go to Brussels tomorrow to attend the last European Council of Ministers to conclude the discussions on the common agricultural policy, I am not sure that I will be able to take part in the debates tomorrow afternoon. On the subject you are referring to, an amendment by Dominique Potier has been tabled on which I will issue an opinion which is unfavourable for editorial reasons. Nevertheless, we have worked hard to understand what needs to be done in this area and to reach the following conclusion: we had to make sure that the famous decree on foreign investment in France (IEF) included the agricultural component. I do. The decree on EFIs, which has been the subject of many years of discussions at European level and in the field of trade rules, allows France to counter foreign investment which it would have reason to believe threatens its sovereignty. As we have verified, the Order is intended to address agri-food sovereignty, and therefore agricultural sovereignty. On the other hand, I agree with you that it has never been applied in this area. I'm sure the subject will come to the table. I say it forcefully, I made sure that agriculture was included in the decree – I know that the House had considered this in the framework of the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE, I am speaking under the supervision of the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have the legal tool, but it remains to know when to use it to oppose more and more frequent projects that could threaten our sovereignty. Dominique Potier's amendment concerns the a priori control of any foreign investment, which poses difficulties, in particular compatibility with international rules. I wanted to give you this very precise answer because I know each other's concern about the subject and I'm not sure I can do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u162	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u163	With regard to the decree on the EFIs, we had, in fact, ensured that agriculture was included in the CAPTE law. It was the culmination of an old struggle in which other political groups had taken part because the subject is consensual – we can only rejoice. But the question is whether it can be applied. Today, neither the SAFE nor the State services have the means to control the identity of those who lead moral personalities at the international level. This is already a challenge at national level, given the means at our disposal, as complex as the arrangements are and the common fraud or circumvention in this area, for tax reasons or for reasons of discretion. In the absence of a quasi-systematic control of Bercy over foreign investment, which is intended not to prohibit it but to examine them a priori and to guarantee transparency on the legal and natural persons who hide behind the corporate arrangements, the application of the decree falls within the illusion. I would like to return to the question of derogations, to which Jean-Bernard Sempastous did not reply. Why consider derogations? The control of structures is very republican: the answer is yes or no, you are a priority or you are not; There's a competition. The provisions we are looking at lack objectivity. They will allow a company to recover 1,000 hectares of agricultural land and possibly return 10 hectares of it to support a project that, ecologically or socially, will seem friendly, while at the same time, twenty farmers could each need 20 hectares to live their multi-farming adventure. We are not at all in the Republic, but in an emergency regime, with derogations that are not based on principles shared by all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u164	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u165	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u166	Thank you, Minister, for clarifying the legal tool we have at our disposal to control foreign investment in France. But to abound in the sense of my colleague Fabien Di Filippo, this mechanism can very easily be bypassed. Imagine a cascade of companies: a foreign company buys shares of a French company, whatever it may be, including outside the agricultural sector, which in turn acquires shares of another company which itself takes shares of a CSEA. Worse still, NGOs, even large French companies, could buy shares of SCEA by bypassing these rules. It is not necessary to look abroad, large French multinationals, large telecommunications groups, which try to install new farmers, buy shares of SCEA in France very easily. This poses a very strong threat to French agriculture and to the family model mentioned earlier by our colleague Jean-Marie Sermier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u167	Mr. Pierre Venteau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u168	I am speaking to Mr Potier, and I have sat for more than 15 years on a departmental agricultural guidance committee (CDOA): if the control of structures was really the alpha and the omega and allowed problems of enlargement to be solved, that would be clear! Moreover, if this control were to guarantee republican fairness, we would not be on the verge of passing a law aimed at companies whose projects far exceed the structural control thresholds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u169	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u170	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You explain to us that the control of structures and thresholds are alpha and omega, while the thresholds have never solved anything. If we legislate, it is precisely because the thresholds have been systematically exceeded and enlargements could not be prevented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u171	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 48 and 142. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 48. I would remind you that these identical amendments will be the subject of a public vote. With regard to identical amendments Nos 49, 95, 143 and 177, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u172	We are proceeding in stages on Article 1: the previous amendment concerned derogations, and it concerns the procedure. SAFE is seized and reports to the administration, which ultimately makes the decision. But let us doubt his ability to carry out the checks, given the few days or weeks and the means at his disposal to do so. That has just been said, it is not alpha and omega, but we have constantly tabled amendments to strengthen the means of engineering and control of land in France. There has been a guilty release in this regard. We propose another procedure: control is carried out by the prefect, who can delegate the instruction to SAFER – it seems to us important that this public service delegation is a decision of the prefect and that it is not automatic. Another important point is that the silence of the administration is a refusal and not an authorization. When we know the means of our administration, we measure the importance of this rule. As the impact assessment shows, this is an extremely difficult exercise in the absence of available data and information, in particular on the legal status of such companies – in the absence of capital control, it is the control of the holder of legal power that counts. Our drafting is, in a way, restoring the rule of law, on the one hand by placing the prefect at the first and last instance of the examination of the files, on the other hand by establishing the rule that the absence of data, in the interests of transparency, results in the refusal of the operation. This is nothing dramatic, there will never be wasteful or abandoned land, they will continue to be cultivated. We simply give ourselves the political time to check that this is not a manoeuvre but a perfectly legal situation. Mr rapporteur, during the examination in committee, referring to the Council of State when that had nothing to do with it, you have changed the beneficiaries in a surprising way in Amendments Nos 89 and 91. The original text referred to both legal and natural persons; Now it is only natural persons, which completely alters the balance of the text. Can you tell us why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u173	I call Mr Cédric Villani to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u174	The amendment has already been well defended by Mr Potier. With regard to the principle that silence is a refusal, its application aims to control more, while information is sometimes difficult to recover – we have seen it in the instruction of the bill. With regard to the abolition of derogations, which are sometimes complex, the aim is to avoid the breaches in which the inventiveness of the creators of financial arrangements and of all those who will have an interest in asserting their rights to a particular derogation might become incipient. Moreover, the study of their impact is lacking: we do not know how many installations will be affected or what the consequences will be. Today we are looking at an emergency law that must be simple, pending, as the rapporteur and others have called for, a great law that goes deeper. Let's keep things simple, we'll make subtle exceptions when we look at a more important law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u175	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u176	The training carried out by the SAFE and the prefect's opinion at the end seems to me the correct method. It is not useful to carry out constant round trips with the prefect or to entrust the prefect with the initiative of the procedure. The Technical Committee shall examine the file and give an opinion, depending on the threshold. Mr. Potier always refers to the threshold of three times the regional UAS. Why choose excess? It is a fork ranging from one to three times that surface. In one region, thresholds could be set to once the surface, in some places, twice or even three, when justified – where the operating surfaces are larger. So you can use the one-time threshold – and this may be more often than the three-digit that you're constantly talking about. I believe a lot in compensatory commitments: that is what makes the scheme strong, and what is also good for professional organisations. We hope that this will enable young farmers to be set up or certain farms to be expanded. No checks are currently being carried out. Thanks to the new system, we can therefore hope to prevent certain excesses. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u178	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u179	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u180	These amendments tend to give the State blind confidence in the procedure. I do not understand the will to remove the SAFER absolutely from the device. At a time when the State is increasingly under-equipped and is becoming more taunted and talkative, we would be better off trusting SAFER, a joint body offering representation of the profession, but also of the local authorities. Moreover, the principle that the absence of an opinion constitutes a rejection of these amendments seems to me to be very dangerous. As we know, the state knows how to play with deadlines; He will try to make up his mind, refrain from communicating an opinion, and let things drag on so that they don't have to justify themselves. There will be a considerable lack of transparency in the procedure. That is why I much prefer the original wording of the bill to those amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u181	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u182	At the very least, I am surprised by these amendments: they are intended to delete paragraphs 5 to 36 that govern the procedure, in order to leave the decision to the Prefect without specifying any criteria. How can a refusal be justified, especially if it results from a lack of response? It seems very dangerous to me. We may disagree with the SAURM – the average regional useful agricultural area – and the coefficient to be taken into account for the threshold, but in this case you remove any criteria: this cannot hold! The persons concerned will lack visibility and will not be able to judge whether or not they correspond to the device. You erase all criteria, and prefer to rely on the prefect; It's very shocking – it's even quite worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u183	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u184	Rest assured: article L. 331-1 of the Rural Code and Marine Fisheries governs the priorities for the installation and the measured expansion. In this respect, we do not rely on an arbitrary decision of the Prefect: on the contrary, this policy of structures is at length negotiated between the profession and the State – it is therefore a perfectly republican operation. Only SAFER, for understandable reasons of agility, may derogate from the SDREA – regional farm management scheme; Everyone admits this, but it would be excessive to make it the general rule for companies. Mr rapporteur, why, in the amendments that have been tabled, are we moving from the control of legal and natural persons to the control of natural persons alone? It may be a simple technical oversight, but it is important for the balance of the text. Indeed, the control of natural persons is almost impossible in complex associate mounts in "Russian dolls"; It would therefore impede an assessment of the dominance of companies in the control of land in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u185	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 48 and 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u186	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 112 Number of votes cast 108 Absolute majority 55 For adoption 11 Against 97
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u187	The rapporteur's amendment No 24 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u188	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 49, 95, 143 and 177. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u189	He referred to the issue of control thresholds. The rapporteur's reasoning is somewhat absurd, saying that the threshold could be set at one, two or three; Let's just act that it could be fixed to one – for if there was an arbitrary of the prefect, it would be nice here that it would nest! The reference to an average regional surface is not completely stupid: it corresponds to a reality, a history, an ecosystem, a geology, a path, a tradition..., all of which are respectable components. In the name of what would this reference be multiplied by three? Moreover, the administrative control apparatus can be perfectly financed – we will also propose an amendment providing that companies that benefit from tax advantages themselves finance their own controls. The State would therefore not be subject to any administrative burden, nor would SAFER suffer any associative burden, since the company concerned would take over its own control. Why forbid that there should simply be a control on the average regional surface, as is the case for all peasants? It seems so simple that I do not understand why the rapporteur invokes a coefficient of two or three.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u190	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u191	[[Smiles and applause on several benches of the LaREM and Agir ens groups]] I intervene with a lot of humility, because I feel like I'm going into a guarded hunt without a permit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u192	As long as there's no grilling!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u193	The aim of this amendment by Jean-Paul Dufrègne is to establish fair treatment among all applicants: there must be a common threshold of control for all, and arbitrations based on common legislation. This common law would have the advantage of avoiding derogatory rules – of which everyone knows that they may be subjective – which may appear when fixed by decree and referred to the administrative authority. We prefer the rules to be the same for everyone: it would be a guarantee of simplification and fairness between applicants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u194	Amendment No 143 by Mrs Emilie Cariou is being defended. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u195	It is a question of amending paragraphs 6 to 8: indeed, the current text would allow for numerous expansions of holdings, to the detriment of the installations that you wish to defend, Mr rapporteur. Our amendment, which has been drafted with the help of the agricultural profession – the Peasant Confederation, the National Federation of Organic Agriculture (FNAB) or Terre de liaisons, among others – would allow equal treatment in the modes of access to land. On the contrary, the system you are proposing introduces a difference of treatment in these modes of access between natural persons and legal persons, as well as between persons involved in agricultural work and others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u197	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u198	They aim to align the trigger threshold with that of structural control, i.e. one-third to one-third of the SAURM. For my part, I propose a fork ranging from one to three. As I explained in the general discussion, we do not control the same thing in both cases. As long as we control the exploitation and possession of the land, there is no need to align it with the threshold of structural control. The threshold is not arbitrary, Mr.Potier: as the text states, we will rely on the EADS, and a decree will specify the criteria. The regional prefect will not work alone, but with professional organizations, as is already the case with the SDREA. It will define and detail areas, using coefficients of one, two or three. I have consulted the New Aquitaine EADS: it is detailed by geographical area in a very precise way; You can find your village or town, and you can find out what coefficient applies. The logic we propose is similar. The decision will not be made in the Prefect's office, and all professional organizations will rely on the EADS to determine the threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u200	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u201	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u202	Let us take a very specific case: a non-operating partner takes control of a company; he works by delegation and hires employees. He is no longer a peasant, but no matter: he is not subject to structural control. The average area in the department concerned – let's say, the Meurthe-et-Moselle – is about 100 hectares, while the trigger area for the control of the structures is 50 or 60 hectares. Imagine the signal that we might give: if you are controlled from 60 hectares, there is another way to continue to operate, the corporate route; Thanks to it, you can reach one to three times a surface that is already twice the control surface. This is totally insane! Don't talk about an administrative burden, since the burden can be totally borne by society: society benefits from tax advantages, and can therefore pay for its own control and provide the necessary documents – we will table amendments to this effect. We simply maintain fairness. This is our only chance for young farmers to settle down, and for the corporate phenomenon not to consume all the areas released by the farmers who will retire – one third to half of them in the next decade. The stakes are therefore major: a demographic shock, a possible transformation of the landscape and a risk of global impoverishment of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u203	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u204	Every device carries a risk of circumvention – some individuals even make it a sport. We need to think about how to prevent such practices. I would point out that when there is no competition, there is no control over the structures, while the membership component will de facto involve control. In addition, it will ultimately be the same regional prefect who will set the two thresholds. It is he who, today, sets the threshold of structures; Tomorrow, it will also be he who will set the threshold for corporate control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u205	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u206	But the prefect of the region – that is, the public authority – shares the same purpose as you. Let us imagine that there is a leak and circumvention: in the end, it is the same public authority which sets the thresholds, according to procedures of consultation and consultation. In the face of a case of proven circumvention, it will not even be necessary to amend the law: it will suffice for the public authority to modify the threshold accordingly. This will certainly require consultation: fortunately, the change will not be as simple – if the public power could change the thresholds to the envi, we would live in a world where entropy would be very positive, to borrow an expression from nature! However, in the end, the same regional prefect sets the two thresholds. We will therefore have a safety net to remedy bypasses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u207	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 49, 95, 143 and 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u208	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 101 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 11 Against 90
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u209	I have before me two amendments, Nos 43 and 196, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor in support of Amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u210	It is intended to amend the wording of paragraph 6, in order to give the local administrative authority greater latitude to set the threshold for excessive enlargement, allowing differentiation according to the natural region or territory with coherence in agricultural matters, but also, where appropriate, according to the nature of the crops. The excessive expansion threshold would be appreciated for all productions combined, as provided for in the proposed legislation, but without applying the equivalences set by the EADS. For each type of crop, the area would be reported at the threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u211	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 196.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u212	This amendment, in the same spirit as that of our colleagues, The Republicans, was the result of a discussion with representatives of the Ille-et-Vilaine Chamber of Agriculture. As Jean-Baptiste Moreau said, the notion of surface area, especially of useful agricultural area, is not quite the same depending on whether we are in Picardie, in the department of the Somme – by saying this, I turn to my colleague Jean-Claude Leclabart – or in Ille-et-Vilaine, region of polyculture breeding. That is why our farm friends in Ille-et-Vilaine are asking to entrust control to the prefects and to rely on the structural control thresholds. For his part, Jean-Michel Clément is a supporter of a regulation of land tenure through the control of structures. My amendment combines both approaches. Jean-Michel Clément, Dominique Potier and a few others are calling for a bill that envisages land control based on the nature and size of farm structures and not solely on the size and creation of companies. This is the thread of our colleague Dominique Potier's thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u213	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u214	You propose to remove the threshold of one to three times the SAURM. However, equivalence coefficients are already provided within the EADS in each region. Moreover, there are different SAURMs in the SDREA – there may be up to six zones. Finally, EADS are being recast in some regions, while in others they already apply. Your proposal is not compatible with my objective: different SAURMs depending on the territory and proposed by the Prefect in consultation with the professional organisations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u215	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 78 and 166. Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u216	This is again the alignment of the thresholds. In the case of the control of conventional structures, when a farmer ceases to operate, it is obvious that the near availability of his land is known to all. Requests are addressed directly to the administration, regardless of whether the owner will be future seller or potential lessor of his land. The business environment is informed. In the case of the transfer of securities, the question arises entirely differently: there will not necessarily be a transfer of land as such, known to all third parties. How will the mechanism apply? What will SAFE do when the information is communicated to it? Will she inform the whole country? Will it publish information that shares are to be transferred? But for what land in return? We will inevitably face difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u217	I call Mrs Sandrine Le Feur to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u218	It is identical to that of my colleague Jean-Michel Clément. The number of notifications of plans to sell shares of companies is currently less than 10000, while the number of notifications of plans to sell real estate, processed by SAFER, exceeds 200000, of which 100,000 relate to sales to agriculture. The surplus of files would therefore not be considerable, especially in view of the benefits of such standardization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u219	What is the opinion of the committee? I take the time to reply to you on these amendments, as well as the following on the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u220	The scheme aims to control excess enlargement by setting a significant threshold, according to the term proposed by the Council of State, and criteria that guarantee its constitutionality – the control threshold is 40%. The threshold for the control of structures is set regionally between one third and once the SAURM, when our device establishes the threshold for the triggering of the control of the significant enlargement between one to three times the SAURM. The SAURM "M" means "average". Excess cannot be qualified on the basis of an average standard. The original wording provided for a coefficient greater than one, hence its designation as "excessive enlargement threshold". In order to meet the demands to lower the threshold, we have chosen, in agreement with the agricultural professional organizations, coefficient 1 as the floor for the threshold, which is why the threshold has been renamed "significant enlargement threshold". It cannot be said that the whole agricultural profession has agreed, after lengthy consultations, especially since the trigger threshold cannot be too low for the reasons of constitutionality already mentioned. As for the subsequent amendments proposing to set the threshold at four times the SAURM, they would prevent control and would involve too few enlargements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u222	Unfavorable. Mr Clément, if the person does not declare the transfer to SAFE – the notary and the auditor are necessarily informed – the text provides for the cancellation of the transaction, in which case the sale is tainted by an irregularity and the act is worth nothing. I challenge anyone within a company to take the risk of concluding a sale, knowing that it is under threat of cancellation because the declaration has not been made. You will not prevent a person from trying to do so, but the text provides that it is liable to cancellation. On the other hand, I return the argument to you. In your presentation, you demonstrated why it was not possible to align with structural control. In your opinion, it is very difficult to know in the case of control over the members' shares. It's true, on the other hand, it's possible to control. On the other hand, structural control does not take place if there is no competition – it will be much less strong in corporate control precisely because it is difficult to know. Given your comments on the information deficit, you should be the first to argue in favour of the membership regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u223	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u224	Mr Minister, our common challenge should be to organise and strengthen publicity on social shares in all land markets. I would have liked to have been able to defend an amendment on the subject tonight, because I know that you will not be here tomorrow for compelling reasons. I do not blame you for that, of course, because you are going to defend France and the agricultural world in Brussels, but I regret not being able to question you on at least two points. You are talking about transparency: it is fundamental. How do you explain the inclusion in article L. 333-4 of the Rural and Marine Fisheries Code of a provision under which a non-operator partner entering a company is beyond control and no longer required to operate? You open a major path to enlargement and thus prohibit any advertising. You think so deeply at the bottom of yourself, and many here are beginning to think so: only the reform of structural control would ensure transparency and fairness in the agricultural land market. Some agricultural markets are controlled, others are out of control. Our only Republican, social, economic and ecological goal must be to be able to control them all in the same way. Article L. 333-4 gives considerable access to the expansion, totally out of control, out of advertising and derogating from the control of structures. We are far away, far from balance. We are facing a text that liberalizes the French market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u225	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u226	[[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] Minister, I do not share your analysis. In your device, after a period of two months, silence is accepted. In other words, the information will escape as many people as possible and SAFE will only be able to see a tacit agreement. Conversely, in structural control, the whole environment knows that land is available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u227	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u228	Moreover, you know the indecentness of some operators who will not want to interfere with a company that already exists for fear that others in turn will eventually interfere with their own society. Also, an omerta will settle, nothing will be done, and in the end, the expansion will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u229	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 161.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u230	It is a matter of introducing more proximity into the process. According to the text, the regional prefect has his hand. Since their merger, the regions have become immense. It is expected that the regional prefect may modulate the threshold by natural region or territory. But the prefect of department, who often has a privileged connection with the agricultural organisations he meets very regularly, is already responsible for the control of the structures. It would therefore be preferable to place it at the heart of the scheme instead of the regional prefect, which is far too far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u232	I share your analysis on several points. Indeed, the links between the prefect of department and professional organizations are close – we see this on certain subjects in our territories, the prefect well knows the union leaders. However, in order to have the more comprehensive vision we want, the regional level should be retained, on the understanding that the thresholds may differ according to the geographical areas. Some geographical areas will exceed the limits of one department to cover two. In my constituency, there are different areas: one of them extends to Gers. A regional vision is therefore preferable. That is why I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u234	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u235	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u236	I understand the consistency of the bill. But department prefects have the advantage of being stuck to a territory. In addition, the commissions are departmental. The department is the framework known to the agricultural and rural worlds. The amendment is of interest, especially for some areas that have been cut off, as you know, on a side table. Let me say that in the Hauts-de-France or Grand-Est regions, there is little common between territories 400 kilometres away. It does not call into question the necessary fight against too high a concentration. Let us be careful – I will be provocateur on purpose – not to sovietize the system, to impose such a strong administration on it that everything would become extremely rigid. We have to stay in the field. The prefects – and I say it by sometimes having to leave with that of my department – are rather by the way what is happening in their department; They're used to working with each other. They are the right step, that of proximity and, I would remind you, of the deconcentration of common law. The organisation of the territory must be consistent with the agricultural organisation. We must avoid constantly creating exceptions. If I may allow myself this little parenthesis, the covid-19 showed the interest of the proximity step and the prefects of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u237	Many colleagues are interested in this subject. I will therefore give the floor to each other and first to Mr. Adrien Morenas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u238	I hear that the regional prefect would be completely disconnected from the territories. But that is not the case. A regional prefect refers to his departmental prefects. The text will allow the regional prefect to draw the lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u239	Not just on this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u240	Mr. Gosselin, let me finish my remarks. You can answer me later, if you wish. Then, the departmental prefects are free to apply what the regional prefect has proposed. I can attest that in the region of Sud Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, in which I reside, that is how things are going. I don't see why it would be different here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u241	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u242	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Our colleague Morenas is right: the prefects are important, that's why we defend the prefectural body and we want to avoid its suppression!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u243	Not prefectural status!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u244	I suspect you, rapporteur, agree with us. You would probably be annoyed to accept Mr Nury's amendment, but your argument was unconvincing. We know the regional level now. A region such as the Grand-Est, for example, is very large and has extremely diverse terroirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u245	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u246	Cultures are not the same in Alsace as in the Marne department. In addition, your argument is relevant, some agricultural territories exceed the boundaries of the departments. Thus, the territory of Champagne, to keep the same example, extends over the departments of Marne, Haute-Marne, Aube and Aisne. I am not sure that only the regional prefect has an overview. It seems to me much more relevant to put this responsibility in the hands of the prefect of the department, who is in almost daily contact with his counterparts in neighbouring departments. If I take the example of Champagne, the prefect of the department of Aisne interacts with the prefect of the Marne, whereas the prefect of the region will not have the same vision of Champagne's priorities since Strasbourg. That is why, Mr rapporteur, you would do well to reconsider your position and to opt for the departmental level, which we believe is more relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u247	I feel that the rapporteur is almost convinced!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u248	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u249	I do not dispute the relevance of your analysis of the departmental prefect's role, but it does not leave me surprised. Mr Di Filippo spoke earlier about border problems with our Belgian or Luxembourg neighbours, for example. As many farms are straddling two departments, if you ask the question at regional level, you limit the disadvantages of these situations, especially since the text specifies that the threshold for significant enlargement must be defined at regional level in the not administrative but natural sense, which is really coherent in agricultural matters. Thus, it is more consistent that my constituency of Vienna is governed by the same rule as the neighbouring territory of the Deux-Sèvres, which belongs to the same natural region, than that which prevails in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, even if some elected members of this department are very sympathetic to me, since it is not the same agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u250	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u251	The aim of this amendment is to involve mayors, too often forgotten in our democratic life, in the process of monitoring compliance with the thresholds set for combating concentrations. As it stands, the prefect alone has the flexibility to set a threshold "by natural region or territory with coherence in agricultural matters". If the territorialisation of the measure is relevant and welcome, the choice of the competent authority is less so, with territorial authorities likely to be short-circuited by the prefect for the setting of the significant enlargement threshold, which will nevertheless be decisive for the administration of the communities and the management of their territory. To involve all local levels in the decision-making process would be unrealistic because it was too complex. That is why the amendment proposes to stick to the mayors who will be most able to appreciate in a given territory, for which they have responsibility, the setting of a significant enlargement threshold that is relevant and in line with the realities of the terrain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u253	What you are saying is true, Madam Member, but all professional organisations, the regional council, the departmental council and the association of mayors will be represented on the SAFER technical committee, which will play a decisive role in the scheme. Mayors will therefore be able, through their association, to convey the concerns of their territories to the committee. I will therefore give an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u255	I'll have the same opinion. Our discussions might suggest that the regional prefect would decide alone in his office, without consulting the prefects of the department or local elected officials. You know very well that this is not the case and that, as MP Dive pointed out, the prefects are an opportunity for our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u256	And even the prefectural body!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u257	They act with method and after consultation. Moreover, if the thresholds were defined at the level of each department, our country could count, for the metropolitan territory alone, a hundred different thresholds, with for each of them ratios of one to three! This would become extremely complicated. It seems to me better to trust the intelligence of our regional prefects and their working methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u258	Our views diverge, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u259	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 39 and 44. Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u260	The aim of this amendment is to give the local administrative authority greater latitude to set the threshold for significant enlargement by allowing differentiation according to the natural region or territory with coherence in agricultural matters, but also, where appropriate, according to the nature of the crops. The threshold for significant expansion would be appropriate for all productions combined, as provided for in the proposed law, but without applying the equivalences laid down in the regional agricultural master plan. For each crop type, the area would be at the threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u261	Amendment No 44 by Mrs Lise Magnier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u262	As I have already said, the definition of SAURM may vary within the same region, as is the case today in the SDREA. Thus, there may be three SAURMs in Aquitaine, or even six in other regions. For this reason, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u264	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u265	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 89 and 162. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u266	I will defend this amendment by Mr Vialay in a few words. It is once again a question of strengthening the territorial dimension of the system, because while we basically share the objectives of this text, we are also seeking greater territorialisation, a little in the same spirit as the prefects. I understand that the text sets various coefficients but the current farm structures are not quite the same in the north or south of the country, and a coefficient of two to four corresponds more to the types of exploitation in the north and west of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u267	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u268	I speak for Normandy as for Brittany, my dear colleague Benoît: Normands and Bretons, united as at the front, they said! These realities need to be taken into account. That is the point of this amendment. Let us not be too administrative again, too tiring because I fear that if we wanted to do better, we might do less well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u269	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u270	It is once again a matter of trusting at the local level, in the proximity. The aim is to take account of the structure of the agricultural sector specific to certain territories by raising the range of the significant expansion threshold. This leads me, Minister, to ask you the question of family farms, which will be discussed a little later, but it would be interesting to know your opinion on the subject. In our view, the system of transfer of shares or shares must take account of the family character, which makes the specificity of French agriculture. The idea would be not to subject to the same rules those which are transmitted within the same family up to and including the third degree, provided that the transferee is himself a farmer. We will defend a number of amendments, particularly from our colleagues Dives and Descoeur, and sub-amendments on this subject. I would like to hear your opinion on this problem which is currently worrying the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u272	Mr Gosselin, I share your concern that the threshold should be adapted to the territory. This is also our goal, but we had to define a fork. The choice of a range of one to three is the result of lengthy discussions and, to keep you in mind, it was made with the departments of the department based on the numbers they had and the clarifications they provided. With a coefficient of four, for example, this would give the Île-de-France 131 hectares of SAURM multiplied by four, i.e. a maximum of 524 hectares and for Lorraine 139 hectares multiplied by four, i.e. up to 506 hectares. But, as I said, we must not stay stuck on this threshold issue. It is a trigger threshold and not a rejection threshold, which would lead to the rejection of a virtuous proposal. So let's keep coefficient 3, provided it is applied flexibly. The SAFE Technical Committees will have the intelligence to dialogue with those who have unsaturated the devices in order to have a more global view and to allow themselves the possibility of allowing an exceedance of the threshold that would be virtuous and economically relevant. That is why I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u273	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u274	I will have the same opinion as the rapporteur on this subject, but I would also like to answer the question put to me by Mr Nury on the family nature of farms. Thank you for asking me the question, honourable Member, because I share the concern you have expressed, as well as members of the majority or other groups, about the family nature of our agriculture. Moreover, there is parallelism with the control of structures, which, as our discussions have shown, provides for an exemption in the case of family exploitation. It therefore seems to me quite logical that the mechanisms of membership control should take account of the family character. This subject has been the subject of many discussions and many amendments which will be discussed tomorrow. The Government will deliver a favourable opinion on the two sub-amendments Nos 198 and 199 which you tabled in Amendment No 130, Member. This is a good compromise, inspired by the control of structures. It sends a message on our strong commitment to preserving the family character of farms while at the same time attaching exemptions to conditions, in particular as regards the effectiveness and duration of the holding. That is a specific answer to your question. [[Applause on all benches]] I would be very grateful if you would excuse me for not being able to continue the discussions tomorrow, but it is very important that I be present at the European Agriculture Council to complete the negotiations on the common agricultural policy. I sincerely thank you for these incredibly exciting debates, and I regret that I cannot participate with you tomorrow. A big thank you to the rapporteur and to all the Members who are so involved on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u275	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u276	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for your clarification and for your open mind. I know you're sensitive to this question and I'm not making a bad trial of intent. On the other hand, we have all contributed one day or the other to know that a figure enshrined in the law is not enough to prevent that, even if there are room for manoeuvre, it is very quickly transformed into related competences. This is precisely what we would like to avoid, because the composition of farms and land tenure are different in the west, north, south or east of our territory, and we should be able to take it into account. Thank you to the Minister for reminding us of the importance of intra-family logic. Some owners, in fact, are not necessarily speculators or greedy people, and want to assert a transmission, which I think is legitimate. It is therefore important that the text does not ignore this aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u277	[[Smile]] The floor is to Mr Dominique Potier, whom we have heard a lot, but who perhaps wants to say goodbye to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u278	Of course, he wants to tell him how much he loves him! We would have missed it! Are we still going to vote on the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u279	I would like to say to Mr Denormandie, who is going to Brussels tomorrow, that all our debates on the report from one to two, three or four, the sub-territories, the cantons, the departments and the regions have little to do with a CAP – the common agricultural policy – which continues to be a bonus for enlargement. Today, aid from the common agricultural policy continues to be granted even if it is in delicacy with French law on structural policy. This is a major anomaly, to which it could not be remedied in the form of an amendment in this law, but it is a much more important determinant in the race for enlargement than the corporate phenomenon itself, of which it is only a vehicle. If we could make progress on this issue of the assets, capping and differentiation of aid, our national policy in this area would be greatly advanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u280	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1284.u281	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through membership structures; Discussion of the bill to consolidate our civil safety model and value volunteerism for firefighters and professional firefighters. The meeting is adjourned.
