ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u2	We are dealing with the examination of credits for sustainable ecology, development and mobility (No 4524, Annexes 15 to 18; No 4527, volumes V and VI; 4526, Volume V; No 4502, Volumes II to VIII), the annex budget Air control and operation (No 4524, Annex 18; No 4502, Volume VII), and the special allocation account Financing of aid to communities for rural electrification (No 4524, Annex 17). This discussion was organized into two distinct sequences. First of all, we are dealing with the budget debate on energy. Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u3	The mission budget for Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility for 2022 is presented to us as a historical one, although 350 posts are still being abolished this year. In total, more than 6,000 posts were abolished in five years, representing a decrease of almost 15 per cent in the number of staff. Nevertheless, we are being told of a historic budget, on the pretext of an apparent increase of 500 million euros in the Mission's appropriations compared to those provided for in the original finance law for 2021, but this minimal development is completely distorted by the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, which has 2 billion euros and represents the bulk of the increase. It is obviously essential to renovate the housing, but the premium leads to more and more work without its payment being subject to the fact that it reaches the BBC level – a low-consumption building; Furthermore, it is not accompanied by the means to monitor and monitor the quality of renovations effectively. MaPrimeRénov' is therefore a striking example of how you reduce the Ministry of Ecology to a window distributing aid to the private sector, without being able to verify its relevance and without real support, due to the lack of sufficient staff. For the rest, the appropriations remain very insufficient to meet the needs: the 113 Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity programme has only an additional EUR 15 million, and the 159 Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology programme even has its appropriations reduced by EUR 10 million. Of course, those in programme 181 Risk prevention increase by €70 million, but they are mainly related to repairs to storm Alex, financed through the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards (FPRNM), known as Barnier Funds, and to a slight increase in ADEME's appropriations – Environmental Transition Agency – which, however, remains largely insufficient in view of the objectives of multiannual energy programming (EPP). In reality, therefore, the mission's budget does not evolve much; It even recedes on many points. This is the case, for example, for renewable energy, which loses EUR 1 billion in support between 2021 and 2022. The few additional and one-off appropriations in the recovery plan do not erase the massive reductions in staff, which are required to do more and fewer more. In this respect, this last budget of the legislature is a continuation of what has been done for the past five years in the context of this budgetary mission – I myself have been special rapporteur since the beginning of the legislature. While the number of staff contributing to the missions of the ministries of the ecological transition and the sea amounted to 41391 full-time equivalents (FTEs) in the initial finance law for 2017, they are only 35865 FTEs in the finance bill (PLF) for 2022, a decrease of 5526 jobs in five years. In the regional services, nearly 2000 posts have been abolished under this five-year period, which severely hampers the work of the Regional Directorates for the Environment, Planning and Housing (DREAL), as well as the Interdepartmental Directorates for Roads (DIR) and the Departmental Directorates for the Territories (DDT). As for the operators attached to the mission Ecology, sustainable development and mobility, they had 19791 jobs in initial finance law for 2018 compared to 19307 jobs in the present budget proposal, i.e. a theoretical decrease of 484 jobs – I say "theoretical" because the decrease is actually much more massive, especially among the operators of program 159, but it is masked by the creation of 800 jobs in five years for the sole benefit of the Société du Grand Paris. At Météo-France alone, 439 jobs have been abolished since 2017, saving just €20 million on payroll; By 2023, 95 more jobs will be eliminated, 60 of them starting this year, while Météo-France must play a key role in the next national plan to adapt to climate change. No less than 500 posts will also have been abolished at CEREMA – the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, Environment, Mobility and Planning – since 2017 – 40 deletions are planned for 2022 – to the point that the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development (CGEDD) has alarmed itself, in a report last June, of a trajectory that is embarking on its "vital prognosis". The IGN – the National Institute for Geographic Information and Forestry – will also have suffered the elimination of nearly 200 jobs in five years, including 10 more in the PLF by 2022. As far as water agencies are concerned, the absence of job cuts in 2022 does not obliterate the destruction of 220 jobs in five years, while they play a crucial role in protecting water resources. The same is true for ADEME, who lost about 100 jobs in five years and who is worried about the temporary positions recruited through the recovery plan – about 100 of them – being abolished from July 2022. ADEME is wondering how it can continue to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. The only comfort element concerns national parks, which will be provided with 40 more jobs in 2022 than in 2021. But again, this does not obliterate the 150 jobs they have lost in the last 10 years, nor does it solve the problem of the numbers that will have to be recruited if, as Mr Macron has announced, the maritime part of the territory with strong protection is multiplied by ten. To conclude, I propose another path, namely to recreate the 20,000 missing posts within the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, including 4000 from 2022. Unfortunately, on each of these subjects, all the amendments that I have tabled for the past five years as Special Rapporteur have been rejected, even those that should have become obvious – I am thinking in particular of those aimed at financing the acquisition of houlographs by Météo-France, which my colleagues in the majority should have approved. [[Ms. Karine Lebon applauds]] I hope that this year, the attitude of the majority will change and that we will live up to our responsibility to deal with climate change. Finally, I thank Xavier Tallon and Nicolas Dufrêne, who have been excellent administrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u4	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u5	I am responsible for presenting some of the energy credits under the mission Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility. On the financial side, they are generally stable, amounting to around EUR 12 billion. But their examination differs from the previous ones, since this is the last finance bill in the legislature. We are therefore given the opportunity to look at what has been done since 2017 – what have I said, since 2012, therefore for ten years, because Emmanuel Macron, in this matter, has only continued the policy of his mentor, François Hollande! Of the eight ministers who succeeded each other during this period in the Ministry of Ecology, none came from the right, and four came from the Europe Ecology - The Greens party. In 1991, on the occasion of the ten years in power of François Mitterrand, the left had communicated by means of a someuse and a slogan: "Ten years we sow. Alas, not sensitive to this bucolic wordplay, sorrowful minds had completed the sentence left in suspense by detailing what the left had sown exactly. My good education prevents me from verbalizing him here, but it had something to do with Cambronne. The same is true between 2012 and 2022: you have been sowing in the wind for ten years, and socialo-macronism will remain in history as a dark page that has led to the energetic betrayal of our country's superior interests. France finds itself facing a wall of investments and a future deficit in electricity production, which you camouflage behind surrealistic assumptions of declining consumption. Remember, it all started in 2012, when an energy transition was announced that would decapitate the nuclear industry and first resulted in the electoral promise to close Fessenheim. Ségolène Royal and Delphine Batho put her in music, before Nicolas Hulot and François de Rugy pursued her in 2017, concretizing the sacrifice of the plant. François Hollande had dreamed of it; Emmanuel Macron did. This story ends curiously in 2022, in the form of a happy end accompanied by a deus ex machina nuclear. For example, the current minister of ecology has always defended the "100% renewable" scenario, imagining Brejnevian plans of massive deployment of wind turbines. Unfortunately, the latest report of the Electricity Transmission Network (TEN) tells you that among the six scenarios for the evolution of the energy mix envisaged by 2050, the one of reaching 100% renewable energy is the worst for the climate and the most expensive for the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u6	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u7	On the other hand, the choice of an energy mix based largely on nuclear energy is, according to TEN, "economically relevant. The myth of "100% renewable energy" collapses: farewell Brezhnev, Goodbye, Lenin! , the Berlin Wall has fallen. In five years, the green ecologist has turned to EDF blue. To measure the suddenness and magnitude of your volte-face, I recall that in the 460 pages of the report of the Citizen Climate Convention (CCC), the word "nuclear" appeared only once. Fifteen months later, the first priority of the France 2030 plan is to "make small nuclear reactors emerge in France [...]". Emmanuel Macron for the moment avoids talking about the EPRs – nuclear reactors with pressurized water –, these large reactors, but the antinuclears of the government have not finished swallowing snakes of the size of a boa: the President actually proceeds in the same way as I do when my son renegotiates to eat something: I cut into small pieces to make it more digestible. In short, your policy is no longer "at the same time"; It's "all and its opposite." It's not the wind turbine, it's the wind. Even if you dress the shifts of your language elements by making the right look like bad nucleokrates, you are naked: the German model, which you have so much boasted, is collapsing. I take the rest of the opportunity to sweep these cartoons: like my colleague Sermier, I have always expressed my support for some of the renewable energies, in particular, in my personal capacity, for wind turbines in the floating sea and solar. But I am aware of the fact that in ten years you have allowed the taxation of energy to worsen to finance your follies; The middle classes will not be able to afford tomorrow's nuclear park, which they still need to heat up, nor the thousands of intermittent energy points you need to singer Germany. [[Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie protested]] However, your turnaround is – unfortunately – not complete. We are faced with the ZFE, low-emission or rather high-exclusion zones that you imposed in your famous Citizens' Convention. Within three years, 33 new areas with high exclusion will be created; they will leave millions of vehicles behind, while in this finance bill, you will reduce the appropriations dedicated to financing aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles, in decrease of 245 million euros compared to 2021. When the French discover it, their anger will turn into fury and the crisis of the yellow vests will appear to you a posteriori as a kind talk of living room. So of course, we can credit you with the successful launch of MaPrimeRenov': let's be fair and recognize it. But we also recognize that we are far from the million homes renovated in five years that Emmanuel Macron promised in 2017. Volte-face, hesitations: obviously, with you, there is not only the current that is alternating. [[Mr Jean-MarieSermierapplaudit]] In conclusion and while thanking the administrator Laurent Delrieu, who has accompanied me during these five years, I will say that if the Committee on Finance has adopted the appropriations for this mission, I invite you, for my part, to reject them. And as a famous right-wing campaign slogan said in 1986, "Friendly tomorrow! "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u8	Mr Jean François Mbaye, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u9	Each year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has before it for its opinion on the appropriations for the mission Ecology, development and sustainable mobility. This referral is based on a simple and persistent observation, which I would like to recall: because the preservation of our environment will necessarily depend on France's ability to unite other countries around joint and ambitious initiatives, it is up to France, not just to set an example, but to be a true source of inspiration at the international level. This statement may seem like a common place, but it resonates singularly today in response to a particularly dense international news. Right now, in Glasgow, delegations from countries around the world have a heavy responsibility to develop measures that will determine our future, but also the future of our children and their children after them. This future will be directly linked to the preservation of the environment, understood as this common space indispensable for the survival of the human species and all forms of animal and plant life with which we live. While climate conservation is currently focusing international attention, the latest World Conservation Congress of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), held in Marseille last September, has made it possible to denounce another harmful phenomenon: the erosion of biodiversity, just as worrying for the planet as the increase in temperatures. This congress also allowed our country to reaffirm its ambitions and make several strong and concrete announcements ahead of the second part of COP15 on biodiversity, to be held next April. Ladies and gentlemen, France's voice in international forums is due to the initiatives taken within its own borders in favour of the environment, which give it an aura and credibility. In this regard, I again welcome – as I did during the review of the mission's appropriations in committee – the increase in the resources allocated to the executive to implement public policies that promote green growth while preserving the environment. As every year, I have devoted my work to the protection of marine ecosystems and, in particular, marine protected areas (MPAs) in order to give the national representation concrete examples of what can be done within and outside our borders. As true sanctuaries, these spaces guarantee the protection of the environment and the species they harbour and have as its first virtue to allow a rapid regeneration of marine biodiversity, not only within the area itself, but also in the surrounding areas. This overflowing effect is an unstoppable argument in favour of these spaces: their social, economic and cultural benefits largely offset the restrictions applied to them. I would like to stress that it is precisely the constraints they have that allow these spaces to produce their virtuous effects. A protected marine area in which no human activity is permitted will ensure a high level of protection of marine biodiversity. Conversely, a marine protected area that has the unique feature of benefiting from this label will have no impact on the preservation of the environment and species. Unfortunately, the "paper areas" are too numerous and are as much trompe l'oeil. The disparity in the regulation of marine protected areas is perfectly illustrated in the Mediterranean Sea: while about 6% of the waters are officially sanitized, the so-called highly protected areas actually represent only 0.23% of the sea nostrum. My opinion report makes several recommendations in order to overcome this challenge and to promote the development of marine protected areas, while improving their management. I propose, in particular, to strengthen information on the benefits generated by these marine sanctuaries, including for economic actors, and to promote international harmonisation on the basis of the work of the United Nations Environment Programme. In addition to strengthening regional cooperation in the Mediterranean Sea, France must use its Presidency of the Council of the European Union to mobilise state actors, in particular in the negotiations on the conclusion of a treaty to ensure the protection and sustainable exploitation of the high seas. It is now poorly regulated and falls within the scope of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, known as the Montego Bay Convention. I call on the Government to step up its efforts to protect the marine environment as a follow-up to the proactive statements of the President of the Republic. In order to ensure the preservation of an environment that is more threatened than ever before, I invite you, colleagues, to support the Government and to adopt the credits of the mission Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u10	Sophie Panonacle, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u11	For the first time in 2022, the amount spent on risk prevention exceeds EUR 1 billion. Let me express my satisfaction – it is, I believe, shared in our Chamber. While we are satisfied, we are concerned about the consequences of climate change. Devoting more resources to risk prevention means that we are facing a situation that is deteriorating much faster and far more strongly than we had imagined. Clearly, if they have not already done so, natural hazards are in the process of surmounting all other risks, technological, industrial, nuclear or mining. The 181 Risk Prevention programme contains seven actions, some of which are relatively new. This is the case with Action 12, which concerns the ADEME grant, now known as the Environmental Transition Agency, Action 13, relating to the grant of the National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks (INERIS), and Action 14, which in 2021 included the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards, known as the Barnier Fund, in the State budget. The structure of the 181 programme remains the same as last year. Because of the diversity of risks it identifies and intends to prevent, this programme is in my opinion consistent. For the first time this year, no action has been taken to reduce its payment appropriations, reflecting the efforts made by the State to preserve the means of action of administrations and operators and, ultimately, to better protect the population and the equipment of local authorities. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention to several elements of this draft budget and to point out, first of all, that efforts to provide industrial risk areas with a technology risk prevention plan (TPRP) will continue in 2022. The control of classified installations for environmental protection (ICPE) must remain a priority. It should also be noted that the Nuclear Safety Authority's appropriations are increasing slightly. This increase was imperative in terms of safety and risk control. Finally, I come to the natural risks, which are the other part of risk prevention. They cover floods as well as marine submersions, fires, land movements, seismic and volcanic hazards and avalanches. According to climatologists, the occurrence of these different risks will be increasingly frequent in the future and natural disasters will become increasingly severe as a result of climate change. This is why the financial effort must be maintained and, better still, strengthened. This year, payment appropriations for Action 10 Prevention of natural and hydraulic risks are increasing by 3.6% timidly compared to last year. This draft budget for 2022 also marks the second year of budgeting for the plan to prevent major natural hazards. A total of $235 million in commitment authorities and payment appropriations will be allocated to the Major Natural Hazards Prevention Fund, of which $30 million will be earmarked specifically for the financial management of the damage caused by storm Alex. I cannot fail once again to recall that another natural phenomenon – which is not considered, rightly or wrongly, as a major natural risk – weakens the coastal coasts and threatens property, people, collective infrastructure and economic and tourist activities: it is coastal erosion, which, in Hexagon and the overseas territories, accentuates the effect of marine submersion by accelerating the decline of the coastal line. We have not been able to support projects to adapt littoral territories to climate change, and I fear that we may one day have to regret this. To conclude this accounting presentation of the appropriations of Program 181, let us stress that the budget of ADEME is in sharp increase in this finance bill. The public service subsidy will amount to 598 million in 2022, compared to 550 million in 2021. The Ecological Transition Agency will also benefit from an additional 1.3 billion under the Recovery Plan for the period 2020-2022. In conclusion, I want to call for accountability and mobilization. As we look at Glasgow and COP26, we are all aware that the survival of the living and the survival of the planet are now being played out. France does not have to be ashamed of its action in the fight against global warming, even if we need to go further and faster, even if we need to devote additional resources to adapting to climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u12	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u13	Let us make it clear: for several decades, we have been lax and too systematically handed over our commitments to tomorrow. This delay must be caught as soon as possible. I therefore appeal to the responsibility of the State, parliamentarians, local authorities, banks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u14	Thank you, Madam draftsman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u15	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... companies and citizens. I call for collective mobilization!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u16	Mr Patrice Perrot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u17	Colleagues, I would like to address you as draftsman of the opinion on two of the nine sustainable ecology, development and mobility programmes: the 113 Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity programme and the 159 Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology programme. Programme 113 is at the heart of public policies on biodiversity, water resource management and the protection of natural spaces. I therefore welcome the fact that it is being strengthened to the tune of 15 million this year after the increases in the last three years. The programme's appropriations will thus reach 244 million by 2022. In this additional $15 million, $5 million will be allocated to the new national biodiversity strategy for 2030, $2.3 million to the National Forestry Board (NFB) and $2 million to protect the coast line from erosion. The resources allocated to the Coastal Conservatory are also increasing by 1.5 million to reach 40 million by 2022. Everyone should also welcome the fact that the financial resources and jobs of water agencies are being preserved this year. The maintenance of their resources is all the more important since the exceptional appropriations they received under the recovery plan, the amount of which is significant – 300 million euros – have already been practically consumed, which shows the extent of the needs. The financial resources allocated to the French Biodiversity Office (OFB) are also preserved. It also benefits from an additional 85 million under the recovery plan. With regard to employment in the 113 Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity programme, I welcome the increase in the employment ceiling of 47 full-time working equivalents (FTEs) for the operators of the programme, with 40 additional posts dedicated to national nature parks. Strengthening national nature parks is a major issue for the future, which we have already had an opportunity to discuss. We are therefore very pleased with the consolidation of their human resources. The Government has also tabled an amendment to finance these new jobs, which I have taken note of with interest. Strengthening national nature parks is essential and is a presidential promise: the President of the Republic has set the ambitious goal of protecting 30 per cent of the national territory, of which 10 per cent is in strong protection. However, difficulties remain in marine protected areas, but the President of the Republic has proposed that the surface area of marine protected areas in France be increased from 0.5 per cent to 5 per cent in the long term. We must collectively be vigilant so that the means are up to ambition. Finally, on programme 113, I am pleased that the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has adopted an amendment on the fight against invasive plants, which I will have the honour to present to you earlier. I come to Program 159, which funds the public service expense subsidies of three operators – Météo-France, IGN and CEREMA – and all the means of operation of the CGDD, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development. Its appropriations range from €481 million to €471 million, down 2%. This reduction corresponds to the continuation of the efforts requested of the operators, in accordance with the strategic projects signed by the latter with the State. My main concern is the CEREMA, which increased from more than 4000 full-time equivalents in 2010 to less than 2500 in 2022, to the point where a report by the Inspectorate-General of Administration, quoted by Mr.Coquerel, indicated that the current financial trajectory was leading to the establishment's vital prognosis. I have therefore tabled an amendment to strengthen its budgetary resources. I call on the Government to cancel the 40 job reduction scheme, without raising the operator's employment ceiling, because the actual number of jobs in CEREMA is already nearly 60 FTEs below the authorized employment ceiling – a situation that needs to be corrected. This is all the more necessary since Article 48 of the bill "3DS" – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification – provides for the CEREMA to be brought closer to the local authorities and their groups in order to make it a centre shared between the State and the communities. Concerning Météo-France, sixty jobs would be lost in 2022. I will defend an amendment to restore the means of this operator. Finally, it is expected that the IGN will experience a decline of ten FTEs. However, we must preserve this operator who provides valuable data. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for the sustainable ecology, development and mobility mission.(Applause from the LaREM Group)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u18	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u19	In all scenarios, even those that leave an important part to nuclear energy, the recently published TEN report shows the urgent need to develop renewable energies, improve the performance of our buildings and decarbonize our transport and our economy. The damage caused by climate change has in recent years been more terrible than ever for our farmers, our territories, our planet. On a daily basis, energy has also become an extremely important issue that affects the purchasing power of our compatriots, the competitiveness of our companies and the independence of our country. In this context, we could hope for a combat budget for our energy policy. Unfortunately, however, the results of programme 174 are half-tinted. On the positive side, let us note that the recovery plan, which strengthened and accelerated the application of several schemes at the end of 2020, remains active in 2022. The MaPrimeRenov' system has been successful since its launch, but the amount of premiums paid compared to their number shows that it essentially supports unique renovation actions, most without measurable energy gain, thus far from the complete and efficient renovations that must be carried out in order to achieve the carbon neutrality of the park in 2050. It will receive €1.7 billion in commitment authorisations in 2022. The envelope allocated for the acquisition of clean vehicles is stable at EUR 506 million. Finally, the draft budget shows a potential increase in annual renewable energy production of 6 terawatt hours, consistent with the EPP. More disappointing, it is not planned to upgrade the energy check in 2022, despite a structural increase in bills whose effect is already painful for the most fragile households. The one-time supplement of EUR 100 does not offset the increases observed since the beginning of the year and it is not expected to be redistributed in 2022. As for the tariff shield, it tends to stabilize prices at an already high level and actually provides for a depreciation of the invoice over time. The French will therefore pay for their energy more expensive, longer. As for the green bonus on the purchase of passenger cars, even if the Government had just promised a suspension of a few months, it would eventually be reduced again to the risk of breaking the small greening dynamics of the park and making the electric car a product reserved for the most affluent. Finally, it is not known whether, after 2022, MaPrimeRénov' will allow the thermal renovation of dwellings to continue at the same rate. I also note that support for green hydrogen is slow to deploy: barely €410 million in payment appropriations in 2022 out of the €2 billion commitment authorisations. However, there is an urgent need to speed up research into low-carbon hydrogen production, which is essential for the decarbonisation of our heavy transports. I regret that the forecasts of the public energy service charges do not allow to know what means will be actually mobilised by the State to finance the new green electricity generation capacity. This expenditure is drowned in the mass of compensation due to existing installations. The total forecast envelope for renewable electricity is even displayed in decrease of EUR 946 million, as a result of the surge in market prices which reduces the weight of compensation. Why not take advantage of these savings to launch new calls for projects, offer windows and offer attractive remuneration supplements, so as to accelerate the development of renewable energies, for example with pumping energy transfer stations (STEPs)? I have devoted the thematic part of my opinion to areas that are not interconnected to the continental metropolitan network, the ZNIs, and in particular to national support to enable them to meet their electricity needs while completing their energy transition. Because of their geographical and climatic specificities, the costs of generating electricity are up to five times higher than those of the metropolis. National solidarity has therefore provided for several aid schemes to ensure that people in these territories have adequate, secure and affordable access to electricity. Tariff equalization and State compensation for the loss of profits suffered by suppliers as a result of higher production or purchasing costs than elsewhere have been important levers of the electrification of the ZNI and remain the basis of State support for the development of their renewable energies. These various compensations, included in the public energy service charges financed by the 345 programme, have a strong dynamic: 1.87 billion euros of expenditure in 2015, 2.16 billion in 2022. The Energy Regulatory Commission is also considering an increase of about 7% per year over the next five years, linked to the development of electric powertrains and the introduction of new production capacities. This massive state aid is indispensable, not only in the name of solidarity with our fellow citizens of the ZNI, but because the active development of renewable energies is, in these territories with highly carbonised and import dependent energy mixes, even more necessary than elsewhere. It is about protecting the environment and their energy autonomy, but it is also, in the long run, an economic issue for public finances. Co-responsible for this strategy as part of their multi-year local energy programming, communities are showing a great deal of voluntarism. However, various constraints relating to land use, the preservation of fossil energy-related jobs or the resulting tax revenues remain to be removed. On these various issues, national and local officials do not always have the same answers. We must accompany the ZNIs who deserve to be territories of innovation and experimentation. In conclusion, I will give a wisdom opinion on the credits of the mission Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u20	Mr Christophe Arend, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u21	In this last budget of the legislature, the scope of the actions included in the programme 174 Energy, climate and post-mine is unchanged, but the amount of appropriations allocated is increasing sharply. They are rising from 2.55 billion euros to more than 3.6 billion euros, an increase of 41%, which does not disappoint the fine mouths that claim to be of the plebe. This increase is particularly significant for MaPrimeRenov ', reflecting the will of our majority to sustain the financing of this scheme. Energy cheque appropriations increase by almost 15% and will amount to EUR 958 million, in order to anticipate a likely increase in the number of beneficiaries in the light of the health crisis. As regards aid for the purchase of a clean vehicle, EUR 506 million of commitment authorisation and EUR 910 million of payment appropriations are provided for in the programme. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the decision, announced on 21 October by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, to extend the green bonus for the purchase of an electric vehicle by six months. The Government thus responded favourably to a proposal by the Commission on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. The appropriations for post-mine economic and social management amount to €302 million, down about 4% from 2021. This meltdown is due to the natural decline in the number of beneficiaries, exacerbated by the epidemic of covid -19 which hit the former black gules very severely, which their former occupation had already weakened. I would like here to welcome the work of the National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors (ANGDM), which has been able to find solutions to keep contact with its public despite the health constraints. The air quality appropriations show a fall in the budget for 2022. Overall, they increased during the legislature, from €18 million in 2018 to €22 million in 2022. I come back to the MaPrimeRenov device. Its success seems to be very clear in 2021, as the target of 500,000 files filed was exceeded in September. The Government has now set itself the target of 800,000 cases in the year. The initial appropriations for 2021, of the order of EUR 1.6 billion, were therefore increased to EUR 2.18 billion. I am also pleased that MaPrimeRenov' has made it possible to reorient public aid massively to the households that need it most. When only 10% of the total amount of the Energy Transition Tax Credit (ISTC) benefited households in the first four income deciles in 2018, 82% of MaPrimeRenov'' credits are now donated to them. Thanks to public subsidies, a very large number of modest households can now improve the thermal quality of their homes. The fine gourmets will appreciate it. We must now consider additional sources of funding. On this point, I am in favour of allocating a larger share of the revenue from the sale of carbon quotas to energy renewal. Indeed, these revenues increased considerably in 2021 and could reach nearly EUR 1.5 billion by the end of the year. A European directive requires them to be devoted to climate projects. A 50% return to ANAH, the National Habitat Improvement Agency, would result in even better results in our commitment to energy waste. Our committee has adopted two amendments: the first concerns improving the efficiency of the use of aid; the second asks the Government to return within six months a precise state of mining damage in the former coalfield of eastern France. Knowing your attachment to black gules, Moselle coal miners are counting on you, Madam Minister of Energy Transition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has given an opinion in favour of the adoption of the appropriations for programme 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u22	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to welcome the work of the special rapporteurs and rapporteurs for opinions, but also the administrators of the National Assembly and our parliamentary staff, whose valuable work is often done within very tight deadlines. Since 2017, we have made great strides in protecting the environment and preserving biodiversity. There has been a sharp increase in the resources committed to ecology. Between the 2017 budget and the 2022 budget, annual appropriations were increased by EUR 4 billion. By 2022, the ministry's budget will reach €49.9 billion, excluding the recovery plan. It's a record under the Fifth Republic! The recovery plan, which is rapidly unfolding on the ground, also boosts the momentum with €30 billion dedicated to the ecological transition. The amounts of aid and subsidies are up to the level and when this works, with the support of Europe, we must also say so and rejoice! With regard to the support for innovation and in the continuity of the France Recovery Plan, the President of the Republic announced the launch of the France 2030 Plan, the first appropriations of which will be deployed in 2022 and will be examined Monday 8 November by our Assembly. My colleague Bénédicte Peyrol – whose action I welcome in the Committee on Finance – and I myself are very committed to the transparency of public action, which is an indispensable condition for effective action, for the right levers to be applied and for evaluating the policies that we deploy. France can therefore pride itself on being one of the first countries in the world to introduce a green budget and gradually scrutinize all its expenditure and revenues, to determine which have a favourable, neutral or unfavourable ecological impact. Even if we have to go much further, we can welcome the sharp increase in green spending between 2020 and 2022: the increase is almost 3 billion euros! More than ever before, we are investing in the ecological transition. Let us analyse further the programme 174 Energy, climate and post-mines, which for 2022 has a budget of EUR 3.2 billion in payment appropriations and 3.6 billion in commitment authorisations. These amounts were increased by 30 per cent and 42 per cent, respectively, compared with the original 2021 Finance Act. In line with the spirit of the mobility guidance law (LOM) adopted in 2019 – which the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, of which I welcome the members present here, had discussed – more than 500 million euros will be invested to help French people wishing to acquire greener vehicles, through conversion bonus schemes and ecological bonuses. This budget programme also reflects our ambition in terms of energy efficiency in buildings and the fight against energy insecurity, as evidenced by the extension of the energy check, which will benefit 5.8 million households with modest incomes – remember that 3 million households were involved in 2017 – and the renewal of the MaPrimeRenov' system, which we are already seeing as a success. The Prime Minister announced that an additional €2 billion would be spent in 2022. This real boost to the energy efficiency of the building sector owes a lot to your voluntarism, Madam Minister, and to the action of Deputy Minister Emmanuelle Wargon. The budget for the public energy service has increased by a quarter since the beginning of the quinquennium. The budget for public energy financing in 2022 amounts to €8.4 billion, including €4.8 billion for renewable energy and €712 million for biomethane injection support. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has referred the issue of acceptability of environmental infrastructure projects to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC). In addition to funding, the issues of training, governance and acceptability of public policies will be central if we are to continue to accelerate the development of new energies. The parliamentary majority believes in the complementarity of different energies – thermal and electrical – and relies on reports from scientists and experts, such as the latest report published by TEN, to define France's trajectory towards carbon neutrality: amplification of energy efficiency and sobriety policies; development of renewable energy, hydrogen vector and network flexibility capabilities; continued investment in the nuclear sector. We identify priority sectors and implement ambitious public policies that are environmentally sound, socially just and protective, as well as sources of economic development and local employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, La République en marche invites you to vote for the ambitious and responsible credits for the mission Ecology, development and sustainable mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u24	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u25	The vote on the budget is always an important moment in a democracy. It is all the more so when it comes to ecology, as it involves future generations. Adaptation of farmers and wine-growers to increasingly frequent drought and frost events; adaptation of the mountain tourism economy to the planned disappearance of snow; Many species disappear, which our overseas compatriots already notice: here are some examples, among others, of the challenges related to climate change, which affect all French people on a daily basis. This is, I believe, shared on all these benches. In fact, I will be part of the delegation that will be visiting Glasgow in the next few hours, as part of COP 26, to express our vision and the responses that we intend to provide in this regard. The position of the Republican Group on this subject is constant: global warming obviously requires us to work towards a decarbonised transition as quickly as possible. On the other hand, our positions differ, Madam Minister, on how to achieve this objective. What matters is not the communication of the moment: it is the effectiveness of the action in the medium and long term. Over the course of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic has put in place a binary logic, according to which any measure emanating from his ranks would be beneficial for the climate, while any proposal coming from oppositions would be a retrograde idea or even systematic criticism. Worse, to this truncated conception of the debate is added the terrible rhetoric of "at the same time", which allows one day to pretend to diminish the place of nuclear power, to affirm without brow the next day that nuclear is an industry of the future. Will France reduce its greenhouse gas emissions with the budget that we are presenting today? I do not think so, because it does not rely on our country's areas of expertise, namely the nuclear and hydroelectric industries. According to the latest TEN report, the mixture of nuclear and hydropower emits little carbon and guarantees high energy power, while being easily piloted and inexpensive. The construction of new power plants is therefore an obvious one. In this regard, the decision on the construction of six new PRTs is delayed: it does not appear anywhere in any report or budget. However, even if not all the necessary appropriations were to be voted on this year, such a decision would necessarily have a very strong impact on the budget we are considering today. Furthermore, if we really need to develop renewable energy, we must not do so at any price, as you are proposing in programme 174. We have three conditions: renewable energies must not compete with nuclear energy, their rise in power must respect the beauty of our landscapes, and it must be based on entirely French or European sectors – from manufacturing to recycling – and create jobs. In this way, the installation of photovoltaic panels on shopping centres, factories or agricultural buildings or the construction of methanization units are interesting solutions, which we support. On the other hand, we are calling for an immediate moratorium on the construction of new wind turbines. Between concrete in the soil, deforestation, biodiversity damage and the need to revive gas plants when there is not enough wind, this technology suffers from a serious lack of ecological interest. As everyone knows, we are not supporters of the decline saying that we need to reduce our electricity consumption to save the planet. We are even less of those who would like to frantically cover the territory of non-performing wind turbines to achieve this, as discussed in programme 174. The Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility mission also encompasses water and biodiversity. The French forests are sick. It is therefore important that the National Forestry Board (NFB) be rapidly better armed. Due to global warming, the Scolyte affects entire forest departments, such as Jura. Water agencies will also need credits: if they are preserved this year, you still had 500 million euros amps at the beginning of the quinquennium. The MaPrimeRenov' device is beneficial, and even necessary – you see that when you do something right, we recognize it with strength! However, its deployment faces operational difficulties – I think we all agree on this – as evidenced by the upsurges of users who face administrative or even technical blockages. We propose to give more room for manoeuvre to local operators – I am thinking for example of the Soliha association in the Jura department. I also fear, to be frank, that the gains offered to individuals by the MaPrimeRenov' scheme will be swept away by rising energy prices. You will have understood that, minister: it is not enough to share observations to solve the problems that our children and grandchildren will face. Let me, moreover, at this moment, have a special thought for Zoe and Angèle, who will have to face so many new challenges for their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u26	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of all these shortcomings and errors in the guidelines adopted, the Group of the Republicans will not vote in favour of this budget, which is not up to our climate ambitions or the risks that the planet is facing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u28	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u29	"What a waste of time to save! Paul Morand said. We're running out of time. We see it all over the globe: extreme weather events are more frequent and increasingly violent. Time is no longer for procrastination but for concrete action. We can still change the path that is emerging if we take the necessary action now. The most recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) confirms this. We have set ourselves the goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. The law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects – the so-called climate and resilience law – that we adopted this year has put this trajectory on the brink of the law. With this in mind, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) is pleased to note that the appropriations for the mission Sustainable ecology, development and mobility dedicated to the energy component continue to declinate the priorities arising from the new multiannual energy programming (EPP) and the new national low-carbon strategy (SNBC). To achieve this goal, the challenge is indeed twofold: to consume less energy and to decarbonize its production. Our group believes that these two fights must be conducted simultaneously. Let us be vigilant and let us not be misunderstood by some: if more than 90% of French electricity is produced in a decarbonised manner, it accounts for only a quarter of our final energy consumption. A long work remains to be done: 60% of the energy we use is fossil-based and more than half of our carbon footprint results from our imports. We must therefore be virtuous on both these points. Three conditions must be met to succeed: will, acceptability and effectiveness. The will is first and foremost in the hands of political decision-makers. In France, I have no doubt: we have it. The policy of President Emmanuel Macron and the Government has demonstrated this, as has the parliamentary work carried out since 2017. We are taking concrete action: the end of the exploration of hydrocarbons and coal-fired power plants, the end of thermal vehicles and the massive support for the energy renovation of buildings is the work of our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u31	[[Mr. Jean-Charles Colas-Royapplaudit]] The "climate and resilience" law is our majority. The EUR 30 billion of the recovery plan devoted to the ecological transition is still our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u33	But to accompany this will, one must set a course and define a strategy by thinking about the long time. This is the subject of the recently unveiled TEN report. We must conduct a constructive and objective debate on the six scenarios proposed, by abandoning the political postures motivated by short-term considerations: the stakes are far too important! Then, without broad acceptability, we will not move forward – or too slowly. The appeals filed on each wind turbine implementation project are obvious examples: sometimes it takes eight to ten years for a project to materialize. When I hear our colleague Jean-Luc Mélenchon promise electricity produced entirely from renewable energy in less than eight years – which would involve multiplying by twenty-one the amount of solar energy, quadrupling the production capacity of the Earth's wind energy and producing thirty times more energy thanks to wind at sea – I am very curious to know the method he intends to use in order not to ignite the territories. Let's be serious. However, we are aware that, in addition to our nuclear fleet, only the development of renewable energy will enable us to meet demand in the next ten years. We welcome the fact that EUR 6.1 billion is spent in 2022. Beyond the acceptability of the means of production, we must accompany the most modest households so that the transition is not seen as an additional expenditure, but rather as a means of achieving savings. The current explosion in energy prices shows how vulnerable we are to these fluctuations, especially the most precarious households. Our group welcomes the swift steps taken by the Government to protect the purchasing power of those of our fellow citizens who suffer most from this inflation, but we are not mistaken: the increase in the price of energy will be sustainable and, if we are to protect our fellow citizens from these increases, we must first and foremost help them to consume less and better. This is where the notion of efficiency comes into play. First of all, let us reaffirm that the best energy is that which is not consumed. In order to achieve our objectives, we will have to act on two levers: improving energy efficiency and seeking energy savings. Helping the French to free themselves from thermal vehicles by supporting the purchase of clean vehicles is an essential objective, which must be combined with massive support for alternative solutions to the individual car. It is also essential to provide massive assistance to individuals in renovating their homes through the MaPrimeRenov scheme, to promote energy savings and to enable households, especially the most modest ones, to preserve their purchasing power in the face of fluctuations in energy prices. More than 800,000 files are expected to be filed in this context by the end of the year. We can only welcome such a success. All this shows that this majority is not content to think of tomorrow's France: it builds it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] We will therefore of course vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u34	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u35	There are two aspects to this budget. On the positive side, we welcome the continuation of the recovery plan and the strengthening of the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, which is of great interest. This plan, however, remains far from the ambitions that our group had defended by proposing the climate premium, an effort of 510 billion in favour of thermal renovation over 30 years, in order to meet the challenge of the 7.5 million energy passoires, while the average expenditure per household for heating in France was 1683 euros in 2017 – yes, even before the energy crisis we are experiencing – and because the share of building in energy consumption in France is 43%. In addition, there is no indication today that the MaPrimeRenov' device will be extended after 2022. We also note that EUR 506 million is allocated for the purchase of a clean vehicle. On this subject too, our group is making a strong proposal, as our colleague Gérard Leseul has tabled a bill to allow all citizens access to a zero-rate loan for the purchase of a cleaner vehicle. On the negative side, we deeply regret that the energy check, created in 2015, is not revalued in 2022 even though – I just mentioned it – the current cost of energy plunges many families into sudden precariousness. Your recent announcements – tariff shield, extra EUR 100 energy check or inflation compensation – are either late or unequal because they do not take into account the geographical situation of the household or its composition. They do not compensate for the increase in the cost of energy for our families and do not meet short-, medium- and long-term challenges. In addition, only EUR 410 million is planned for hydrogen spending next year, while we must do everything to invest massively and quickly in this area. The review of the Trust Account for Financing Community Aid for Rural Electrification, and in particular the 794 programme for national support for NIFs, has a special dimension this year. Indeed, the work of COP26 has begun, generating legitimate expectations for the preservation of our ecosystems and a true ambition for energy resilience. We have all seen the alarmist predictions of the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, that global temperatures will rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2030, ten years earlier than their previous forecasts. Worse: Of the five scenarios studied, the most pessimistic predicts a warming range of 3.3 to 5.7 degrees Celsius. So how can we reconcile energy production with the protection of our natural resources? This question takes on a particular meaning overseas since these territories, rich in exceptional biodiversity, have always had specific environmental and social aspects, in particular because of their island situation, their climate and their exposure to natural hazards. However, the procedures by which the State pursued a national energy policy throughout its territory were not adapted to the specific context of the overseas countries and territories. In this regard, the Green Growth Energy Transition Act of 18 August 2015 represented a major step forward in providing for the regionalisation of multi-annual energy programming, which must be the levers for the future of energy in the overseas countries and territories. With regard to the ZNI, we had made several proposals during the consideration of the climate and resilience bill, such as the obligation to install batteries when installing solar panels, especially on buildings and car parks, because the challenge is not only to create renewable energy at the moment, but to store this clean energy. If not, how can we meet electricity requirements on rainy days and during the night? I also hear the sometimes legitimate questions from some colleagues about the growing burden of the CSPE, the contribution to the public electricity service. But I would like to point out that in these territories, until recently, oil and coal were the historical model of energy production. The non-interconnected areas – our colleague Philippe Naillet reminds us regularly –, anxious to demonstrate exemplary energy resilience, propose to move towards an electric mix based on 100% local renewable energy. It is therefore essential to strengthen incentives to control energy demand and to diversify local renewable energy sources: photovoltaics, wind turbines, hydraulics, marine energy, geothermal energy. Rather than an increase of more than EUR 170 million in the costs in the ZNI, we would like to see the allocation of resources equivalent to the production of sustainable energy, which would be in addition to those in the recovery plan. As I recalled in my capacity as draftsman of the opinion, the overseas countries and territories are not sufficiently heard. At the dawn of national deadlines, I call for a more careful listening so that the ecological ambition we defend becomes the source of savings that the Government expects. The Socialist and related group will abstain from the appropriations of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u36	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u37	"On ecology, how do you want people to believe you when you haven't done anything for years, nothing at all? » This question was asked to me by a high school student in my constituency fifteen days ago, while I had come to debate with 200 senior students. This encouraging phrase, I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that you have heard it yourself dozens of times. And every time we list the incredible list of measures we have taken in favour of ecology since the beginning of the quinquennium, or we recall the historic amount of the budget that we spend, this year again, on the ecological transformation of our country, nothing does. For, paradoxically, the more we do for ecology, the more we give the impression of not doing enough, or even doing nothing at all. This unfair trial in passivity, however, we must hear it because we will not take up the climate challenge without transforming the anger of the most convinced French people as the passivity of the most dubious into positive actions. My conviction, Madam Minister, is that if our action does not always produce among the French the effect of training that we expect, it is perhaps because it is not backed by a great collective narrative, which is inscribed in our national history while inviting us to look towards the horizon and to give us a new dream, that of a living-together that integrates our new relationship with the living. It is our turn, therefore, to offer a story to the French. It is our turn to name the ideas and values that underpin our vision of ecological transformation. It's our turn to have – be careful, I'm going to say a big word – an ideology. Because ecology is also a political, cultural struggle...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u38	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u39	...and civilizational. The populists and extremists of all kinds have understood this very well: it is now, in this moment of strong ecological and democratic tensions, that the vision of the world, of man, of the living but also of the economy and of democracy that will preside over our destiny in the decades to come and even the centuries to come. We should be careful not to underestimate this fight because it is also about the sustainability of our republican project and its values of freedom, equality and fraternity. But if we want to explain our project, I fear there will be three more big words. The first is "free trade". Let's repeat: making free trade the cause of all environmental ills or double-closing our borders by believing that escaping the global demographic challenge ahead is heresy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u40	You had to dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u41	Ecological transformation is a global challenge that can only be built within the framework of multilateralism by linking, as the President of the Republic reminded us at COP26, climate, biodiversity and trade agendas in order not to end free trade but to change the rules of free trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u42	It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u43	Still, in the history of the world, freedom of movement and trade has enabled the progress of democracy. We must not forget that we will not rise to the climate challenge without advancing together ecology and democracy. Another big word we will have to say: "capitalism". No, it is not by lowering capitalism that ecological transformation will be accelerated and, no, decay is not a new form of prosperity but just a form of organized misery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u45	Let us assume here again our liberal heritage, assume to want to transform capitalism positively while maintaining the best. The best of capitalism is competition that allows innovation and then democratisation in the production of decarbonized energy, these are the virtuous market mechanisms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u46	This speech blooms well in the 19th century!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u47	... like the carbon market that allows companies and countries to emerge as champions of the transition, it is finally private capital – oh! What a naughty word! – For, yes, we will have to find colossal sums to finance the ecological transition without damaging the independence of states and the freedom of peoples through unsustainable public debt. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot laughs]] The last big word is my favorite: "liberalism." We will not rise to the ecological challenge by means of planning, punishment, restriction, infantilization, but by trusting individuals, by ending with an ecology of the norm that compels and by opting for an ecology of freedom that gives the power to do to citizens, associations, businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u48	So now...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u49	The state can't do everything, and society can do so much. Liberalism, free trade, capitalism: let us no longer be afraid of these big words because they are not. Our opponents have made them obscene on purpose to deprive us of the great idea they designate, a subversive idea, an idea that is the beating heart of our Republic: freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u50	"Where there is a will, there is a path," said Lenin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] An ecology of freedom: behind the actions and figures of this budget, that is what we stand for together. That is why you will be able to count on the support of the group Action together, faithful to its liberal and humanistic values.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u52	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u53	Unbelievable! You usually pretend, but at least that was very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u54	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u55	4.5% is the excess of greenhouse gases produced by France in relation to its commitments under the Paris Agreement. 2.7: it is the number of planets Earth that would be necessary if all of humanity lived like us, French. Two degrees: this is the limit of global warming that we have set ourselves by the end of this century. 1%: France's share of global greenhouse gas emissions. 4 million: this is the number of French households affected by energy poverty. 50 billion: this is what France spends every year to import oil and gas – as much money that could be allocated to the collective interest. These few figures illustrate an implacable observation: public environmental policies that have been in place for several decades, including in this five-year period, are of relative effectiveness. Despite the collective awareness of the need to preserve our planet, the energy transition in our country threatens to be a factor in the social and territorial divide for two reasons: the fear of rising energy prices but also the lack of perception of a major social project. In some of our territories, the energy transition is manifested only by the presence of wind fields and the increase in environmental taxes, without its benefits being directly palpable to the population. So the rise in energy prices does not seem to stop, it is essential to launch a new nuclear reactor construction programme based on the TEN scenarios in order to maintain our electricity mix, the lowest carbon emitter in Europe, and to sustain an industry of excellence. As we have supported for many years, it is finally recognised that nuclear is the cheapest, most efficient and least devouring solution of space. It is essential to maintain energy at an affordable price for the French, whether they are the least affluent, the first affected by the rise in prices, the middle classes, who are suffering a double penalty because they do not have access to the energy check, or the companies, on which an additional burden is placed. For the moment, your government's only answer is cyclical, while the problem is structural. In the long term, the trend in fossil energy prices is on the rise. The UDI-I Group therefore believes that it is essential to give the French the full amount of the tax surplus that the increase in energy prices will bring you. In this regard, we welcome the fact that the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery has finally resumed on Tuesday, during questions to the Government, our proposal to allocate the entire product of energy taxation to the ecological transition. It must be remembered that the carbon tax was a failure, leading to the movement of the red cups and then the movement of the yellow vests. These projects, thought on the wrong scale, posed problems of acceptability. We therefore believe that the ecological transition of taxation must be harmonised at European Union level in order to be as effective as possible. MaPrimeRenov' is a concrete solution for citizens to enable them to start their own energy transition. More than ever, we must reconcile environmental and social efforts so that we do not oppose those who fear the end of the month and those who fear the end of the world. We will therefore propose to increase the budget of the scheme so that it is extended to secondary residences in rural areas. We must adapt to the new ways of life adopted after the various confinements, which see many of our fellow citizens sharing their time between several homes, between town and country. This extension would also make the territories more attractive by providing them with a more comfortable housing stock and by energizing skilled, non-relocating jobs. In addition, we welcome the increase in the ADEME budget after three years of decline. As illustrated by the "climate and resilience" law, your policy relies heavily on signage, while the IDU and independent group defends a more pragmatic and scientific vision of ecology. We would therefore like to see the Government align its words with its actions. Protecting our planet is the challenge of the century; We must work collectively and intelligently to raise it. Members of the IDU and Independent Group will work on this throughout the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u56	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u57	For the last five-year finance bill, the Ministry of Ecological Transition has a budget of almost 50 billion euros, which you claim to be the "historical level", Madam Minister. It is to forget that this year, like all those who preceded it, there will be fewer agents serving the ecological transition to deal with the climate emergency, since you remove 347 FTEs. It is also to be forgotten that the field changes made during the quinquennium have led to inflating your ministry's figures. Thus, housing is now under your control, while until 2020 it was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. So yes, I'm willing to acknowledge that your budget is on the rise, but this increase is quite relative and, as it stands, it will not allow us to face the challenges of the ecological transition. The example of energy renewal is eloquent in this respect. The finance bill devotes an additional EUR 2 billion to the MaPrimeRenov' scheme. This is progress, since the recovery plan originally planned to spend the same amount in two years; However, this is insufficient to enable the entire French private park to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, especially since no visibility is given as to the continuation of the programme from 2023 onwards. I also have reservations about how to pay the premium. To benefit from this, there is no need to attest that the work undertaken will lead to energy gains. Under these conditions, the premium may encourage small-scale work, without prioritizing the most efficient actions, or even encouraging global renovation. Similarly, the various measures proposed to accompany the French in the face of rising energy prices are perfect. The tariff shield will, of course, restrict the price increase for the year 2022, but it will be passed on to the 2023 invoices. In other words, instead of making the French pay immediately, they are given credit. We would have preferred a reduction in taxation, as is done for electricity. In addition, you are planning a limited increase in the budget line dedicated to the energy cheque for 2022. Yet the rise in energy prices is likely to continue. On the one hand, the resources allocated to the scheme should have been strengthened and, on the other hand, measures should have been taken to increase the rate of appeal. Today, almost 25% of those entitled do not make use of their cheques. I would also like to refer briefly to the question of our energy mix. The TEN report has taught us one thing: we cannot achieve carbon neutrality without significantly developing renewable energies. These investment needs are particularly felt in non-interconnected areas where the development of decarbonised energy is synonymous with energy independence. In this regard, we regret that the Finance Bill does not provide for massive support for the deployment of the renewable. However, our delays are increasing in this area, particularly with regard to wind turbines at sea. The quinquennium's record is disappointing with regard to another major issue: the protection of biodiversity. Only 0.14% of the state budget was spent in 2020, according to the EESC Since then, this figure has been increasing, but it is still clearly insufficient. Even worse, since 2017, the number of operators has continued to decline. As such, the retention of posts within the French Biodiversity Office, the water agencies and the Conservatoire du littoral, as well as the creation of some 20 posts for national parks, are more like a moratorium on the abolition of posts than a real strategy for the recovery of biodiversity. The Barnier Fund has seen its resources strengthened in the PLF for 2022. The majority of this funding will, however, be dedicated to the victims of storm Alex in October 2020, in the Alpes-Maritimes, leaving few resources for operations aimed at increasing the resilience of our territories. In addition, substantial efforts are needed to combat pollution. At home, we are concerned about the maritime pollution that is ravaging the Mediterranean Sea. That is why we will be defending an amendment to give Corsica the means to combat oil pollution. Minister, as you say in a presentation of the finance bill, "there is no ecological transition possible without massive financial means," "no consistency and visibility for households and businesses," "without agents on the ground." Today, these conditions do not seem to us to be in place. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore vote against the adoption of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u58	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u59	I cannot help but respond to the comments made earlier by Valérie Petit. You said, colleague, that "liberalism", "capitalism" and "free trade" are not big words. No, they're not big words; They only refer to the policy pursued in the 19th century that led us to an ecological impasse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u60	It's true that in Russia, everything's fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u61	At least, colleague,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u62	Dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u63	...what you say has the merit of clarity: you state loudly and clearly everything the Government is silent about, but what it does always put into practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u64	Look big, vote Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u65	"We either eat or heat up. Emilie, single mother with two children, home living assistant for a salary of 950 euros net per month. "It's aberrant to be made to live like this. I don't want to sleep with frozen feet anymore. » Joëlle, caregiver for 1,600 euros net per month "Rose the bowl. Everything increases except wages. It's a shame. Heat has become a luxury. I'm not allowing myself any more deviations, so if I can't compensate for the price increase this winter, it's on the food races that I'll have to deprive myself of. Fabienne, a night carer in an association home for people with disabilities for a net salary of 1550 euros per month. "It's an organized robbery. Mehdi, nurse in psychiatry. Many of them are unable to afford to turn on the heating. They do with the D system: plaids, bouillottes in beds, sweaters and coats at home. Last winter, more than one Frenchman in two had been forced to reduce his heating in order to lower his energy bill – the National Energy Ombudsman said that they were twice as many to be forced to do so two years earlier. Nearly 20% of the families surveyed reported that they had suffered from the cold in their homes for at least 24 hours in 2021, compared to only 14% in 2020. Yet I do not see the trace of this suffering in this budget. For example, you pull out the drums for your MaPrimeRenov' device, presented as ultra-ambitious. It would be the key to energy sobriety and the tool to fight the increase in the energy bill, just that. In fact, it seems rather that it is perfectly designed not to tackle the problem of energy insecurity in front of it. First of all, it does not target those who need it most, since the remaining burden for the most vulnerable is 20%. I'm not saying it, it's the Court of Auditors. In its flash audit of this device, the Court adds that it is mainly used for small simple works, such as window insulation or boiler change, and not for efficient energy renovation that would eliminate thermal colanders and ensure energy consumption gains. It is therefore a masquerade that allows you to artificially inflate the figures of the energy renovation, without ever attacking the houses whose energy labels are the worst. The 4.8 million dwellings considered thermal colanders and their inhabitants will wait! This scheme is accompanied by an energy check of EUR 100, which will not make it possible to compensate for the dizzying rise in energy prices. Madam Minister, you will always prefer to let the market go rather than drastically regulate it. Since the opening up of the energy sector to competition, prices have exploded: electricity prices have risen by 50 per cent and gas prices by 70 per cent, to the detriment of users. Meanwhile, Engie, Total and EDF made 13 billion profits in the first half of 2021. If we took at least 10 per cent of these profits, and distributed them among the 3 million families who heat up with gas, we could pay them each 500 euros. Our country is gradually dying of these successive privatizations. The opening up of the energy sector to competition is a whim of the European Commission which will have cost us dearly. We have to stop this madness. We need to block prices and build a public energy hub. Of course, you have to block the prices before the increase, not after, like you did. A public energy hub would allow us to plan for the release of nuclear energy and the development of renewable energies. Today, investment in renewable energy depends on the price of energy, which is open to competition. Precisely because of these prices, support for renewable energy is falling. Maybe it'll make you feel better...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u66	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u67	... since the President already has an energy destiny set out for France: nuclear, nuclear, nuclear! For the world, it's gas and oil to gogo. Champagne for Total! Emmanuel Macron can hold all the beautiful speeches he wants at COP26, no one is fooled anymore. While around the world $11 million in subsidies go to fossil fuels every minute, while the world's forecasts of coal, oil and gas production for 2030 are twice as high as those compatible with a 1.5 degree limit on warming Celsius, one learns from the leak of a document that President Macron joins Vicktor Orbán's Hungary and Poland – led by an ultra-conservative government that refuses to end its gigantic coal operations – to demand that gas and nuclear energy be recognized as green energies. Even better, while some 20 states are committed to putting an end to the financing abroad of fossil energy projects by the end of 2022, among which the United States or Canada, France is not part of it: Emmanuel Macron has decided to wait for 2035! Here's where the world's lesson giver is: do what I say, not what I do! You can continue as long as you want to call us "Amish" who light up to the "oil lamp", alternatives exist, as the scenario of negaWatt showed us...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u68	Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Karine Lebon also applauds]] ...promoting 100% renewable energy and energy sobriety. This debate is crucial, as it engages the future of our nation. Those of whom you are, who want to continue the liberalisation of energy at all costs, support for fossil fuels and nuclear energy by capturing our future without democratic control, make a serious political mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u70	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u71	Show us the humanistic face of communism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u72	[[Smile]] Goodbye Lenin! Let's talk about what concerns the French in the first place: gas, electricity and fuel bills. Yet, what had we not heard in years about the virtues of the liberalisation of the energy market that Mathilde Panot was talking about! The benefits had to rain on the users, and there was no doubt about the virtues of competing and privatizing the energy sector, two policies that you pursued by letting private capital nest in EDF and Engie. All of this must have been a bonus for the "clients," as you now call them. As a result, the robustness of the national electricity system is less and it continues to be weakened while the burden of spending on users, households and businesses is exploding – as this evolution also compromises the vitality of our companies. As a matter of urgency, in recent weeks we have proposed that you lower the VAT on electricity. In view of the fact that our energy mix is largely decarbonized, this measure seems to us to be in line. We also proposed that you shift some of CSPE's revenues to ANAH in order to accelerate the thermal renovation of the habitat, as we know how much the housing heating bill weighs on the household budget. You have opposed an end to not accepting these two proposals. However, you remain extremely feverish, to the point of being forced into emergency half-measures, which you recently opposed a haughty refusal. However, the additional EUR 100 aid from the energy check will not cover the additional cost of the bill for the French who receive it, and the ex post freeze of the energy price, after its outbreak, will not cancel the damage to the purchasing power of many employees and pensioners. You are also proud of the success of MaPrimeRénov' and the 2 billion devoted to it. In the current context, where energy insecurity is worsening, however, it is essential to allow modest households to embark on a comprehensive, efficient and high-quality renovation. But you know very well that recent developments in the scheme assign the most modest households to work that is unambitious and therefore little energy saving factors. Similarly, the choice was made to grant the same level of aid to all co-owners, which implies that modest households can no longer apply for individual aid, at the risk of increasing their remaining burden compared to the current situation. So you're far from finding the ideal formula! Beyond words of self-satisfaction, we are again facing a situation of chronic underinvestment. Let me now turn to the concerns expressed by our colleague from the majority, Mrs Panonacle, about natural hazards and industrial risks. For the former, even as populations and regions cruelly experiment with the multiplication of extreme episodes of floods, even submersions, and forest fires that are growing and becoming widespread, you boast of the so-called unprecedented increase in the fund for the prevention of major natural hazards, while it only takes into account the consequences of the disaster in the Roya Valley. Nothing more to definitely activate a public policy of adaptation to climate change and to protect the inhabitants! In Hexagon and overseas, however, 17 million French people live in identified risk areas, and 9 million employees and related jobs are there. As a result, you are taking a culpable investment delay to redevelop infrastructure and equipment, while the results to limit global warming are far from being achieved. As for the second ones, that is to say the sites classified SEVESO, despite your announcements in 2020 on the deployment of fifty additional inspectors, the reality of the figures is again subject to challenge at the regional level, like Normandy. And if the number of controls increases, they are carried out in less depth, under cover of a reduction in the regulatory instructions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Alexis Corbière also applauds]] The Communist Group will therefore vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u73	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u74	Today, our planet is sick. Global warming, the disappearance of many species, and the growing natural disasters are all symptoms. And the origin of this evil, we know it: the action of man now unquestionably disturbs our climate, destroys other species and exhausts our resources. One of your illustrious predecessors, Aimé Césaire, wrote that "a civilization... unable to solve the problems of its functioning is a decadent civilization." Today, this finding appears stronger than ever. That is why, beyond words, good intentions, incantatory declarations, we have given ecology the means of our ambitions. My ministry's budget for the year 2022 is in line with our ambition for the ecological transition, as it consolidates, completes and amplifies the building that we have been building for the past five years, with a fundamental aim: to transform our society, to instil the ecological transition wherever possible. It is a budget that meets this requirement for the future that I have come to present to you today. First of all, I would like to point out that the budget in general, far beyond my department's appropriations alone, places ecology at the centre. Since last year, we have embarked on an unprecedented exercise with environmental budgeting, called the "green budget". It is a global vision that we have so far missed. By now measuring the ecological impact of revenue and expenditure, we are transforming our conception of public action under the prism of its effect on our environment. It is a compass that guides the Government in the preparation of all budgets, and we will continue to amplify this green budget to guide our collective choices. But that's not all: our demand is a deep greening of our activities. The health crisis that hit us hard could have caused us to give up. On the contrary, from this obstacle we have made a springboard: 30 billion to revive the economy by relying on the ecological transition, this is the bet of the recovery plan. And to continue to transform our economy, the environment is also at the heart of the France 2030 investment plan, half of which, or EUR 15 billion, is dedicated to the ecological transition. But the first engine of our ecological ambition that I am talking about today is, of course, the ministerial budget for the year 2022. For the coming year, my ministry's budget is at the unprecedented level of 50 billion euros – 49.9 billion to be precise – in addition to the credits from the Recovery Plan and France 2030. It's historical. It is above all a budget commensurate with the task ahead of us, because our responsibility, in this case that of my ministry, is to fight the causes of environmental evil! And we know that this is primarily our greenhouse gas emissions. That is why, in this budget, we are stepping up our efforts to accelerate the decarbonisation of our lifestyles. A first lever of decarbonisation involves increasing energy efficiency: the best energy, the least polluting, is always the one that is not consumed. The Government is therefore massively encouraging thermal renovations to help our fellow citizens to reduce their consumption of their homes. That is why the budget presented to you provides €2 billion for MaPrimeRenov', three times the amount planned before the health crisis. In response to the comments I have just heard on the orientation of this scheme, which has been too long concentrated on simple gestures of insufficiently efficient renovation, I recall that the multiplicity of aids makes it possible to reach everyone, including those who need it most, the most precarious audiences: in addition to the aid from MaPrimerenov', there are the C2Es – the energy saving certificates –, the boosts of insulation and heating, the "Having better" programme of the ANAH, the aids Housing Action, the reduced rates of VAT, the eco-PTZ – the eco-loan at zero rate – and especially, since the law "climate and resilience", the setting up of the accompanying Renov'. Their role is going to be important, because they will help our fellow citizens find themselves in all these aids, some of which can be combined, by identifying their needs and telling them how to have a better heated, isolated housing that will cost less in bills. The Renov' escorts will be there to help them get the maximum benefit from all these aids. The related arrangements already in place in the territories demonstrate their usefulness. A second lever to decarbonize our daily lifestyles is to electrify our ways of moving. The green bonus and the conversion bonus, which are expected to total more than 2 billion euros out of 2021 and 2022, thus encourage the French to acquire cleaner vehicles, including electric or hybrid vehicles. The Government has announced that the bonus for electric vehicles and the conversion bonus will be maintained at their high level on 1 January. [[Smiles and applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the last lever we need to operate is essential, since it is the greening of the energies we use. Energy and climate policy will have a total of 11.7 billion euros in my ministry's budget. The TEN report published last week sets out several ways forward for the electricity mix in our country. My goal, that of the Government, is to achieve a carbon-free and balanced electric mix, in particular by increasing the share of our renewable energies. I strongly stress this point, because the conclusions of the report are clear. In the six scenarios proposed which are expected to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, there are two constants: the first is energy savings, which go through energy efficiency and sobriety; The second is the massive increase in the use of all renewable energies. We cannot afford to use only a few of them and to decide on a moratorium on others: in all TEN scenarios, we need much more renewable energy, whether solar, wind on land or wind at sea. Let anyone who thinks they can do it otherwise come and explain it to me at my office, at the ministry: I would be very interested to know how! As a result, €6.1 billion will be spent on renewable energy in 2022. This path is in line with your ambitious 2030 targets, both in the energy and climate law and in the multi-annual energy programming. And since this is one of our priorities, the budget for the public energy service will have increased by a quarter since the beginning of the quinquennium. ADEME's public service subsidy is also increasing significantly, plus EUR 50 million, to finance, in particular, the increase in its commitments, in particular for the development of renewable heat. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that it is through all these actions that we can effectively reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and that we will really tackle the cause of environmental damage. But in the face of the acceleration of global warming, we must also fight, realistically and responsibly, against its effects. A first consequence of climate change is the proliferation of natural disasters, which again made headlines this summer. Floods, fires, both in France and abroad, are both more frequent and more violent than ten years ago. We have a responsibility to support those of our fellow citizens who face their consequences and, more generally, we must all prepare for those risks that we are all likely to face in the future. The resources of the Barnier fund are therefore increased to €235 million, compared to 137 million two years ago, with €30 million in new measures for reconstruction following storm Alex in October 2020. However, the consequences of climate change are not limited to these natural events of magnitude that mark the minds: it is also the erosion, less visible and therefore more pernicious, of our biodiversity, with equally dramatic consequences on the long run. I'm not telling you that with overseas France is home to 10% of all known species in the world. This extraordinary living heritage is an opportunity for our country. But it is also a responsibility, since nearly a third of the known species are now threatened. To counter this deadly mechanics, biodiversity budgets are increasing by €15 million. In particular, the Government proposes to increase the resources of the national biodiversity strategy, with an additional €5 million, as well as those of the National Forestry Office or the Coastal Conservatory: this is the first increase – plus €1.5 million – in the last ten years of the Conservatory's resource ceiling, which I welcome for the preservation of our coastlines. In total, the Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity programme has benefited from an increase of €107 million since 2018, or more than 80% in four years. It is considerable, but it is above all an investment in keeping with the importance of this fight. Finally, I will conclude by telling you about the exceptional measures that we are putting in place in the face of rising energy prices. In order to support our citizens in the face of the explosion in gas prices, the Government has decided to pay an energy check of 100 euros to 6 million modest households and to block the regulated gas tariffs at their level of 1 October 2021. Despite the latter decision, the increase in gas prices could have led to an increase of more than 15% in electricity tariffs by 2022. We have therefore decided to limit this increase to 4%, notably by lowering the domestic tax on final electricity consumption. I know that the National Assembly has already validated this measure during the consideration of this finance bill, and I welcome it. This tariff shield will effectively protect our citizens from inflation, especially given their heating expenses this winter. Similarly, in the light of the recent rise in fuel prices, the Government is introducing an inflation allowance of 100 euros, which will apply to anyone who earns less than 2000 euros net per month, i.e. 38 million French. However, rest assured that these exceptional measures, which we are taking because we cannot leave our fellow citizens without a solution when such increases occur, do not change our long-term energy policy. On the contrary, this situation reinforces our desire to get rid of our dependence on fossil fuels as quickly as possible. With this budget for 2022, we are moving forward more than ever in this direction. Otherwise, we would simply fill the holes; And what we want is a long-term strategic policy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, our ambition for the planet is not just a matter of words; It is made up of funds, appropriations, resources. In short, it is fully reflected in the draft budget that I am presenting to you. This budget for 2022 is a new stone to this building that we build together with patience and determination. When I see that the urgency to come to the bedside of our planet becomes more obvious every day, I think history is right. In 2021, more than ever, the examination of the budget, a democratic moment par excellence, is also a great moment for ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u75	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u76	The 2022 finance bill provides for a 3% increase in the appropriations allocated to the ecological transition to reach a record level of €50 billion. In particular, 6.1 billion are destined for the development of renewable energies, which are crucial to the climate emergency. To do this, one of our best levers is photovoltaic. Under the climate and resilience law, we have accelerated its development. This law reinforces the obligations to install photovoltaic panels on warehouses, hangars and car parks. This allows renewable energy to be developed while minimizing space consumption and environmental impact. The day before yesterday, Madam Minister, you announced an action plan to further accelerate the deployment of photovoltaics. This is a real opportunity for our territories, and in particular for our farmers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the Agir ens group]] I was recently on the basis of renewable energy in agriculture, in Gers, and I was able to see the goodwill of all the actors involved. While there is a consensus on the development of panels on roofs, which meets the triple objective of developing photovoltaics while minimizing the artificialisation of the soil and providing additional income to farmers, the subject is much more delicate and the opinions on agrivoltaism are more divided, i.e. the combination of photovoltaics and agricultural activity. What do you think about this? And in the plan that you have just unveiled, what are the measures to further support our farmers, who can be important players in the development of photovoltaics?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u77	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u78	The report published almost two weeks ago by TEN is very clear, and I said it again at the moment: in order to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, we need to develop massively renewable energies, and in particular photovoltaics. The installed capacity in France now exceeds 12 gigawatts, which is, in the end, quite few, and we must already triple it in the next seven years to keep our objectives in the PPE. I know your involvement on this subject, especially since the debates on the climate and resilience law, of which you have been the general rapporteur, and you are right: in this context, our farmers have a role to play. As you recall, we have strengthened some installation obligations, but we are not just using this tool to develop this energy source. We also want to make it easier for the French to install photovoltaic panels. The action plan you mention includes several measures concerning farmers. I would mention, for example, the increase of the power ceiling to 500 kilowatts, compared with the initial 100 kilowatts, to allow for a non-tendered purchase price for roof installations. This raising of the threshold was very much expected by our farmers. I can also quote what you voted in the "climate and resilience" law in terms of reducing connection costs for projects of less than 500 kilowatts: up to 60% of these costs will be covered by the rate of use of public electricity networks. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I could cite many other measures, but I will end by saying that in 2022 my ministry will launch an extensive audit of the various categories of project promoters, including farmers, to identify new simplification measures, the idea being to remove all the obstacles that prevent photovoltaics from being used where it can be done very simply. Farmers have a role to play and I can tell you that agrivoltaism will be an important part of our energy mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u79	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u80	The question that I am about to ask is that of Philippe Gomès, who could not be present and whose spokesman I speak for. Yesterday, Thursday, 4 November, at the Glasgow Climate Conference, twenty countries and five public banks made a commitment to stop financing fossil energy projects abroad by the end of 2022 and to focus on supporting the transition to clean energy. This is the first time that a coalition of countries has attacked support for oil and gas, in addition to coal, the most polluting energy. Among the signatories are large investors such as the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, but not France. Your government is left with its 2020 strategy to stop oil support in 2025 and gas support by 2035 at the latest. However, according to the International Energy Agency, in order to meet the objective of the Paris Agreement, any funding of new fossil energy projects would have to be stopped immediately. France is therefore lagging behind, not to mention continuing to finance oil and gas abroad through the system of export guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u81	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u82	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Should I remind you that our country is still failing to meet its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets? Our fellow citizens, especially those of the ultramarine territories, are at the forefront of the consequences of climate change: rising waters, increasing the frequency and intensity of major weather events... Madam Minister, when will France join the signatory countries for a more ambitious trajectory towards the end of support for oil and gas? When will France put its actions in line with its words?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u83	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u84	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u85	I recall that France announced in 2019 its intention to stop providing guarantees on projects involving fossil fuels. The commitment made yesterday at COP26, which I welcome as a very good signal, since twenty-five countries and public banks have announced that they will cease any export guarantee or development aid on fossil projects, is in line with the same philosophy and we can only congratulate them. The Agence française de développement has signed this declaration. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the Agir ens group]] With regard to the export financing provided by the Treasury, Bruno Le Maire recalled a few days ago the trajectory of France, which consists of putting an end to any support for oil research and exploitation projects in 2025 and gas in 2035. He announced that this trajectory would be reassessed as soon as next year. The situation is changing, things are accelerating; I also congratulate the international community on its commitment, through the G7 and the G20, to stop any export guarantees on coal now. At the beginning of this year, it wasn't won, I remind you. Like you, I think things need to speed up and I hope they will speed up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u86	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u87	Minister, I am asking you these questions on behalf of Jean-Hugues Ratenon, who had to go back to La Réunion. We are facing an insufficient overall policy here. France is not meeting its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, the carbon footprint is about 50% higher than the territorial footprint. It is a budget similar to the Government, without the necessary large-scale measures concerning ecological bifurcation and social justice. The aim is not sobriety, but modernization through technology and artificial intelligence. The new Green Budget evaluation method is even criticized, as it does not require neutrality of public spending on climate issues. Yet the ecological emergency is undeniable: the threshold of +1.5 degrees will be reached before 2040. The MaPrimeRenov' scheme is no longer intended primarily for the most modest households. Since the balance is 20 per cent, are you prepared to take care of it for these families in view of the increase in raw materials? Rather, it is a policy of the figure, to the detriment of an ambitious policy of global renewal. No visibility exists to date as regards the continuation of this programme from 2023 onwards. Are you prepared to plan an extensive thermal renovation plan for buildings, both socially and ecologically? Energy prices have been rising dramatically since the beginning of the year. Your measures will not counter this price increase and will not effectively combat energy insecurity. Why did you choose to reduce support for renewable energy? Finally, due to the presence of hazardous waste in Réunion, workers in contact with them, the people of Réunion and biodiversity face a real danger. Why did you reject a simple request for a report on this waste and the establishment of an emergency plan and an action plan? What do you intend to do about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u88	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u89	You ask me to answer on almost the entire budget in two minutes: it seems a little short. With regard to the green budget, I am very proud that we have put it in place, but it is only in its early stages. The first green budget, presented last year, was incomplete because some expenditure is not yet analysed in terms of its impact on the environment. Indeed, these are techniques that we are putting in place as we move forward. However, the movement had to be launched and it had been launched. This allows this budget to be looked at by different institutes, different experts, who can " challenge" it and help us to better evolve it. It's an excellent base and I'm very happy that it exists. International tools will help us evaluate this budget. I am thinking, for example, of a tool developed by the OECD, called IPAC, an international climate action programme, launched a few days ago at COP26. It will make it possible to evaluate all public policies for the protection of the environment, including reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions, sector by sector – energy, transport, etc. – and compare policies on the basis of common benchmarks in many countries. It will also allow us to evaluate ourselves better: we can only be better if we evaluate better, I fully agree with you. On MaPrimeRenov, I already answered you earlier. I agree with you that there is a need for visibility for the networks. We have indeed maintained the premium thanks to the additional 2 billion entered in the budget this year. In the context of the next campaign, we will indeed have to ask ourselves about the desirability of a form of planning – not just on MaPrimeRenov' – to see more clearly in the long term. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the Agir ens group]] Finally, we are always at the disposal of the elected representatives of La Réunion to work together on the issue of waste. I understand that two meetings have already been scheduled and cancelled half an hour before. We are still at the disposal of Members, but they still need to be present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u90	We're done with the questions. We are dealing with the budget discussion on transport and maritime affairs. I call Mr Saïd Ahamada, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u91	I am very pleased to greet the Minister of the Sea, having called for the reappearance of this ministry. This is reflected in the figures: with EUR 391 million in AE and EUR 385 million in CP paid in total by programmes 203 and 205, this budget 2022 jumps by almost 30% in AE and by almost 50% in CP compared to last year. It is a budget much higher than the average of the appropriations since 2017, and it is not a cyclical effect that would be linked to a temporary increase in the means: it is the tendential expenditure of the 205 programme that increases by 40 million euros to finance measures co-built with the maritime world in the framework of the great concertation conducted in 2021, the famous Fontenoy of the maritime. Three emblematic measures are reflected in this budget. The first is the maintenance until 2023 of the aid granted to the maritime transport of passengers in 2021, consisting of full State coverage of the social contributions due by shipowners on seamen's jobs. This famous "net wave" was initially set up to save some ferry companies doubly affected by the crisis and Brexit, especially Brittany Ferries on the transmanche line. This measure is effective over the long term to strengthen the employability of sailors and to support the competitiveness of French shipping companies. EUR 16 million was budgeted in the PLF for 2022, but the cost of this measure is in fact 21 million in full year. For the future, a budget of 21 million, or even more, should the companies operating under public service delegations be included in the scheme, which is not the case today. It is my understanding that a government mission should soon come into being and make proposals on this point. The second measure is the payment of a supplementary grant of EUR 5 million to the École nationale supérieure maritime, to enable it to increase the number of pupils per promotion by 2022 with a view to doubling by 2027. As of last year's school year, the ENSM has welcomed an additional 52 students. However, the €5 million supplement will not be sufficient to meet the target. The grant should be increased to a total of EUR 31 million by 2027, but also to increase the employment ceiling of 50 FTEs over the period, in order to allow the school to recruit additional staff. By the way, I would like to pay tribute to the commitment of the management of the ENSM and its employees, who are doing their utmost to meet the challenges and to live up to the ambitions of the school. Finally, the great novelty of this budget is the creation of a Maritime Intervention Fund (MIF), with a budget of EUR 17 million in 2022. It will fund marine planning, decarbonization, wreckage removal and coastal band development projects. To this extension of 40 million is added the maritime and port component of the recovery plan, which gives a real boost to the modernization of the means of the maritime affairs administration. Of the EUR 50 million earmarked for expenditure usually under the 205 programme, EUR 20 million will have speeded up the modernisation of the operational regional surveillance and rescue centres (CROSS), and an additional EUR 25 million to acquire two new beacon vessels using clean technologies, one for the Brest-Morlaix area and the other for the South Atlantic area. Indeed, it would have been difficult to finance these vessels from the appropriations of the programme alone without negating on other actions. The impact of the recovery plan is also significant on the port side. In support of the 175 million commitment authorisations entered in the appropriations of the mission Recovery plan for 2021, the AFITF – Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – has been able to considerably increase its operations since 2020, by financing new projects in the major seaports in favour of the energy transition. Many amendments to the State-region plan contracts have been adopted to extend the list of projects supported by the State: provision of electricity to docks for ships, development of the modal report or development of an offer to supply liquefied natural gas in French ports. This draft budget confirms that AFITF's competition funds will remain high in 2022; I'm very pleased with that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Only the appropriations allocated to the compensation of non-commercial costs of large seaports stagnate below EUR 100 million. This envelope is mainly used to finance dredging costs. It seems to me that an additional effort will have to be made, which I estimate at EUR 112 million. Notwithstanding this reservation, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt the appropriations for the 205 Maritime Affairs programme and the 43 Ports of the 203 Transport Infrastructure and Services programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u92	Mrs Marie Lebec, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u93	Since 2017, the majority have done considerable work in favour of transport to modernise the transport network – particularly the rail network –, accelerate the ecological transition, invest in technologies of the future and support our competitiveness. Again this year, the budget for transport infrastructure and services is increasing sharply, with €3.8 billion in appropriations for programme 203, €2.7 billion for AFITF and an additional €750 million under the recovery plan. The massive investment undertaken by the majority continues and is accelerating, as the stakes are high. This is proof of the unprecedented amount of resources deployed to develop rail freight and double its modal share in freight transport from 9% to 18%. This is a major challenge for the competitiveness of the logistics sector, which is essential to our economy. In order to support freight, the additional envelope voted in 2021 is renewed for 2022, with 151 million from the 203 programme, plus 15 million from the Recovery Plan mission. Thus, by adding together the resources mobilised by the State, the appropriations of the recovery plan and the co-financing of local and regional authorities and the European Union, EUR 1.35 billion is devoted to the revival of rail freight. A fine rail mesh is an essential parameter of the attractiveness of the territory. That is why we are strengthening SNCF's structural financing capacity to allow for a thorough modernisation of the rail network and daily transport. In line with the commitments made in the reform of the rail system in 2018, we conclude the Group's 35 billion debt recovery, with a final tranche of 10 billion. The recovery of this debt will help to restore considerable financial room for manoeuvre in order to invest at least 2.9 billion a year in the regeneration of the structural railway network. It is indeed our majority who have had the courage and determination to carry out this unprecedented and fundamental operation for the structural financing of the national railway network. We even reinforced this effort a year ago by voting for the recapitalisation of EUR 4.05 billion of SNCF to the benefit of SNCF Network and, this year, by abolishing the tax on the result of railway undertakings (TREF) and the contribution of territorial solidarity (CST), which represents a saving of 242 million for the group in full year. With this budget, we make the choice to speed up the greening of transport and to keep ourselves in industrial competition by investing massively in the technologies of the future. For example, €1.5 billion is planned to support research and development (R&amp;D) in the aviation sector, with a view to developing carbon-free, electric or hydrogen-powered aircraft by 2035. By the end of 2021, 87.5% of these appropriations will have been committed, and all of them will be committed by the end of 2022. The France 2030 investment plan will also help to support breaking innovations in the transport sector. The aviation component of the plan, aimed at the development of the low-carbon aircraft, has an envelope of 1.2 billion, not to mention the EUR 340 million hydrogen pipeline. Progress and industry are not opposed to the ecological transition: they are even part of the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u95	Nor do I forget the transport of goods by road. While electric or hydrogen-powered trucks are developing, these technologies are not yet ready and remain too expensive to be generalized. If a first effort by the state to accompany the transformation of the sector is planned with 100 million euros budgeted, we will have to continue to support the sector in its transition. Finally, we continue to support the French by continuing the massive increase in budgets dedicated to everyday mobility. The €200 million for bicycles provided for in the recovery plan helped to strengthen the national fund for active mobility and to launch a fourth call for projects to further accelerate the development of bicycle infrastructure. There are also aids for the repair of a bicycle, aids for the purchase of an electric bicycle or the rise of the sustainable mobility package. For public transport, the recovery plan provides no less than €950 million, not only for the development of transport in Île-de-France, where the needs are considerable given the saturation of the network, but also for the entire territory, where the plans for metropolitan express services will materialise. In addition, the fourth call for clean-site public transport projects will be doubled from €450 million to €900 million in order to continue to support the mobility organising authorities affected by the health crisis. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the Agir ens group]] Ladies and gentlemen, everything is gathered to enable us to innovate, to develop our transport infrastructure and services with technologies of the future and to further strengthen the attractiveness of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u96	Mrs Zivka Park, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u97	Since the beginning of the legislature, we have paved a way. Started with the Assises de la mobilité in 2018, it took shape in the mobility guidance law in 2019. We have put in place an ambitious budget programming and trajectory for transport, both to strengthen the attractiveness of the territories – my co-rapporteur Marie Lebec mentioned it – and to unblock our territories. Better mobility means improving access to employment and training, and facilitating access to education, care, public services and recreation. We therefore spend EUR 13.4 billion on the financing of transport infrastructure for the period 2019-2023, an increase of 40% over the previous period. AFITF's expenditure is expected to reach 2.7 billion per year. For the past two years, the LOM has been our compass: we have respected it in 2019, as well as in 2020 – despite the health crisis – and in 2021, and we will respect it in 2022. We will continue our efforts to further improve transport on this path, bringing the programming to EUR 14.3 billion over the period 2023-2027. Admittedly, AFITF's revenues remain fragile. Nevertheless, the revenue cuts are offset to keep up with the trajectory we voted for. In 2020, AFITF received €405 million in compensation. In 2021, the second amending finance bill that we will be considering in a few days provides for a further compensation of 250 million. All modes of transport benefit from the increase in the planned investments in the LOM to unblock the territories. We are acting for the maintenance and modernisation of national road, rail and river networks, for the resorption of the saturation of large railway nodes, for the opening up of roads in medium-sized cities and rural areas, for the development of the use of least polluting mobility, in particular bicycles, and for the support of an ambitious freight transport policy. After years of underinvestment in the rail, road and river networks, we must welcome the fulfilment of the commitments made in the LOM. In reality, the trajectory is even more than respected. Indeed, the health crisis linked to the covid -19 epidemic forced us, by force of things, to take additional measures to preserve our objectives and to improve rapidly the daily displacement of our fellow citizens in all territories. To compensate for the losses of SNCF Réseau and to preserve its investment capacity in the regeneration of railway infrastructure, the State recapitalised SNCF to the tune of €4.05 billion. That's not all: the recovery plan is also 300 million euros for the territory's fine service lines; EUR 250 million for rail freight infrastructure; EUR 100 million for night trains – this is a success; EUR 200 million to finance the Lyon-Turin railway tunnel, which was so often mentioned, without weighing on the initial budget of AFITF; EUR 175 million for the regeneration of the river network; EUR 200 million for bicycle infrastructure; more than EUR 900 million for the development of public transport; EUR 350 million for the maintenance of the national road network, works of art and bridges. Thanks to the recovery plan, the delays in the progress of the State-region plan contracts are being caught. The rate of commitment of the State's appropriations will exceed 90% by the end of 2022, which is higher than that of previous contracts. Yes, the State is at the rendezvous and will accompany the regions in the development of infrastructure in Île-de-France, as in the Grand Est or in the Hauts-de-France; In short, throughout the national territory. I'll finish with a word about air transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u98	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u99	Given the long-term weakness of traffic, the situation is still very difficult not only for airlines but also for airport operators. I would like once again to welcome the efforts made by the State to help the sector accelerate its ecological transition, in particular with regard to the development of a sustainable-priced biofuel sector for the market, as well as support for the research and development of decarbonised, electrically or hydrogen powered aircraft. However, I would point out that airport operators have little access to the financing of the recovery plan, while they too have to make their transition, reduce their emissions and prepare to host carbon-free aircraft. I am thinking in particular of our airports in the region. Similarly, it seems to us legitimate for the State to make a greater commitment to compensate for the loss of revenue from the airport tax and the air noise tax, a subject that is dear to me and on which things are still struggling to move, to the detriment of all those who would like to sound their homes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Two years after the adoption of the LOM, our ambition is intact and our determination to improve daily transport is unwavering, and with this budget we prove it through concrete actions. We are honouring our commitments and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u100	Mrs Maina Sage, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u101	At this end of the week, and while COP26 is being held – it should be stressed – we are addressing, in the context of the review of the credits of the mission Ecology, development and sustainable mobility, many topics that bring us back to a very strong news. We are gathered to examine the appropriations for the Ports action of programme 203, devoted in particular to the dredging of ports, and those of programme 205, which concerns maritime safety, social standards applicable to seafarers, the financing of maritime education and the exemption of employers' social contributions from companies in the maritime sector. I will not dwell on the funds that have already been excellently presented by the Special Rapporteurs. I would just like to point out that the amount allocated to programme 203 remains stable – albeit low, I agree. We also note a strong 25 per cent increase in the appropriations for programme 205, and welcome the establishment of the Ministry of the Sea, which we have been waiting for for a long time. The Government had sought to give impetus to that process, by increasing the appropriations for programme 205, which would be used in 2022. Let us say that almost 50% of these are devoted to the compensation of exemptions from employers' social contributions, which shows the importance of the issue. This sector, particularly affected by the health crisis, must be supported. I would like to return to several points of vigilance among the topics already discussed. In the area of security, significant resources are actually deployed. However, in the context of climate change, the increasing demographic pressure, particularly in coastal areas, and the increase in maritime traffic linked to the development of world trade place the sector at a crossroads: on the one hand, the need for increasing development; on the other, the need to take into account the challenge of protecting the oceans and their ecosystems. I am speaking here for the Committee on Sustainable Development; So you will understand through what prism. In the name of the need to protect our environment, this year I chose to focus on pollution management and the acceleration of decarbonisation. I recall that 70% of our planet is covered by the sea. It's a treasure, but it's also a responsibility. France has the second largest maritime estate in the world, with an area of 11 million square kilometres, 97 per cent of which are overseas. It is a wealth, a heritage that could be said to be global, since it is home to an ecosystem and resources that are useful to many people on the planet – and not only to the French, whether they live in Hexagon or overseas. It is also, I repeat, a great responsibility. With regard to pollution, the Minister for the Sea, much remains to be done in the management of container losses. The phenomenon – which is estimated at 1500 to 3000 containers per year – cannot be of concern to us, because the French fleet occupies a position of choice within the world fleet. With the Minister responsible for transport, you may need to set indicators from next year's budget. There is too much uncertainty as to how these pollutions are managed. It is also necessary to work on concrete paths either to recover or to monitor these pollutions. Mr Deputy Minister, we have discussed a great deal in committee the depreciation scheme aimed at promoting the decarbonisation of transport. As you know, we have just amended it again when we look at the first part of this finance bill, but it is still not satisfactory. We need to look more closely at damping times and – I insist – auxiliary vellic propulsion must be supported in this context. If many subjects remain to be developed, I would like to stress these two major issues, as well as training. The Government has pledged to double the number of merchant navy officers; It is now necessary to mobilise the corresponding means for their training, recruitment and securing their careers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, we support this draft budget and give an opinion in favour of the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u102	Mr Damien Pichereau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u103	Once again, the Government is paying particular attention to spending on transport infrastructure and services, as the transport sector is responsible for almost 30% of France's greenhouse gas emissions – a subject dear to my colleague Jean-Luc Fugit. More than ever, therefore, transport needs to be redefined according to an ecological and sustainable model. This is the central objective of the recovery plan announced at the end of the health crisis. Without going back too long, we have spent an unprecedented investment of EUR 30 billion, including massive support for rail transport, daily transport and cycling. In addition to the appropriations under programme 203, I wanted to draw up in my opinion an assessment of the main measures dedicated to transport during the quinquennium and, first of all, those in favour of AFITF. In 2019, the Mobility Policy Act set the infrastructure funding path to reach EUR 13.7 billion over the period 2019-2023. The path has been respected, I would like here to highlight and salute him. For 2022, AFITF's forecast budget stands at €2.7 billion, excluding the recovery plan, and I welcome this. However, the Agency has only four FTEs, which does not allow it to cope calmly with the significant increase in its activity since 2017. I therefore call on the Government to provide the Agency with a fifth FTE, which does not require an increase in its budget. Finally, I will issue a small alert about the Agency's revenues. I have no doubt that in the amending finance bill for 2021, the Government will compensate for the loss of revenue related to the covid -19 – I am thinking in particular of the solidarity tax on airline tickets, known as the Chirac tax, and, to a lesser extent, the fines from radars. On the other hand, in the medium term, we will have to think about securing AFITF's resources for the years to come. Secondly, support for freight, particularly rail freight, will be addressed. In addition to the State's recovery of a second tranche of SNCF Réseau's debt, it should be noted that the appropriations for action 41 Rail have increased by almost 4%, in particular the increase in freight compensation paid to SNCF Réseau for the movement of freight trains. The PLF also sustains, up to EUR 170 million, the new rail freight aid, which is essential to achieve the objective of doubling its modal share in freight transport by 2030; This aid will finance increased aid for trans-shipment, additional tolls and aid for isolated wagons and the start-up of new services. With regard to the support for road freight transport, again, the majority of us are at the meeting. By the "climate and resilience" law, the over-amortization in favour of the purchase of cleaner vehicles was sustained until 2030; It's new. In addition, I would like to point out that LCVs – light commercial vehicles – used for the transport of goods benefit from the ecological bonus and the conversion bonus, which also applies to retrofit. While COP26 obliges us to take action, I would remind you that never has a government acted so much in favour of greening our transports. Let us collectively be proud of it! Thirdly, I will quickly mention the success of the installation of the AOM – the mobility organising authorities – throughout the territory. As of 1 July 2021, 790 out of 995 communes chose to exercise the competence to organise mobility on their territory, which will allow us to develop the mobility of our citizens, especially in rural areas. From now on, thanks to our action, 100% of our territory is covered by an AOM. Let's be proud of it! Finally, I would like to welcome the creation of the Agency of Innovation for Transport by the Minister Delegate Jean-Baptiste Djebari. Its objective is to coordinate actions to support innovation between the departments of the Ministry, but also and above all to participate in the identification of innovations and to support their development. It is a necessary structure in order to develop tomorrow's leaders in mobility, accompanying them both technically and financially. It's up to us to promote it in our territories. This sincere budget expresses, objective and completes all our actions during this quinquennium. It demonstrates our constant commitment to participate in the reduction of CO emissions in order to achieve the European objectives and those of the Paris Agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] In conclusion, at the end of these five opinions on programme 203, I would like to welcome and thank the officials of the Ministry of Environmental Transition in charge of transport, as well as those of the various operators of the programme: AFITF, VNF – Waterways of France –, ART – Transport Regulatory Authority –, SGP – Société du Grand Paris – and EPSF – Public railway safety establishment. I also thank my colleague David Ouzilou, all the services of the committee, including Mr Stéphany, and you too, colleagues from all sides working on mobility. We sometimes disagree – it is an understatement – but I am sure that we share the will to fight against the house arrest of our fellow citizens and to offer them a sustainable mobility solution. It is because this same will inspires us that I invite you to vote for the appropriations for programme 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u104	We now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u105	In considering this draft budget, one thing must be said: the President of the Republic is well in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u106	Don't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u107	No, they still don't have a candidate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u108	Please listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u109	Indeed, the PLF for 2022 reflects a real flight forward budget to which we, the elected members of the group, The Republicans, cannot subscribe, the government's fiscal intentions being financed either by the recovery plan or by the debt. With regard to the appropriations for programme 203, particularly for inland and inland transport, we are of course aware of the need to reconcile today's and tomorrow's mobility with environmental issues. The annex to this draft budget indicates that France is one of the pioneers in establishing a green budget. While my colleagues in the Republicans Group and I agree with the budgetary commitment to ecology, I would like to point out that without the resources resulting from the recovery plan, the Government's commitment to sustainable development and mobility would have been much less and certainly reduced. For the record, in 2019, this budget had decreased by 0.31%. Among your budgetary guidelines are various measures for innovation in transport. However, we regret the lack of financial commitment on key issues such as greening of road construction techniques, gridding of the territory with regard to ultra-fast charging stations, and the development of autonomous vehicles. In this regard, we note that public support for these innovations is not accompanied by any short-term financial allocation or forecast of funding. We do not have a timetable, nor do we have the amount of funding for innovations led by the Transport Innovation Agency. You have exclusively focused this green budget draft on electric mobility. In this regard, we recall that since the beginning of the legislature, we have consistently stressed the need to preserve our nuclear power plants, which are essential for supplying all electricity, because French nuclear potential not only contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but also to ensuring energy at a reasonable cost; it will meet the electricity demand of the next 15 years. We note that after four years in power, you return to the path of reason with a sudden interest in nuclear power, the President of the Republic himself making the VRP of the EPR. Finally, you seem to come back to a little common sense! Nevertheless, you must be careful and careful: your electric mobility policy is not accessible to all our citizens, either because the rest is too high, or because the planning of the territory and the remoteness of the urban centres do not allow it. My colleagues in the Republicans Group and I are convinced that it would have been necessary to rethink our policy of support for renewable energies, so as to re-allocate financial resources in sectors where real progress is possible. Thus, it is aberrant that this draft budget did not place more emphasis on the energy mix, particularly on biofuels such as E85 fuel. With a price of 65 cents per litre, it is a real alternative for our fellow citizens who travel daily to the gas stations. It also provides an additional source of income for farmers, whose difficulties we know. Biofuels diversify their income, while ensuring an economic meshing of the territory, thanks to the presence of companies that maintain industrial, economic and social activity in the municipalities. With regard to the draft budget for maritime transport, I find it difficult to find strong commitments that would help meet the current challenges. You indicate that marine transport, which accounted for about 2.89% of total global anthropogenic CO emissions in 2018, compared to 2.76% in 2012, could see its impact multiplied by six, to reach 17% of emissions. However, you consider that the priority is to finance large-scale maintenance work at marine signaling establishments, such as the lighthouse optics. These are mainly operating expenses, while the recovery plan should mainly finance the investment. With regard to the decarbonisation of maritime transport, you are proposing only a consultation to define a carbon neutral strategy by 2050. Two weights, two measures: for cars, you plan to abolish thermal engines in 2030, but for ships, only a concertation! On the issue of air transport, we regret a budget below the stakes of the aviation industry, yet one of the French flagships, which irritates many companies in our territory and provides tens of thousands of jobs. Moreover, it would have been wise to reply on the subject of the airport tax to finance the security and safety of airport structures: it is clearly established that the choice of basing all the financing of the legitimate airport safety and security expenses on a tax paid by the airports themselves is now limited, partly due to the drop in traffic. I would add that research and development efforts are already being undertaken by the aviation industry to develop a hydrogen engine, even though air transport, which is widely criticized by some on these banks, accounts for only 3.7% of the carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector. For all these reasons, as you will understand, we will not vote for the appropriations for these programmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u110	We're not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u111	Mrs Florence Lasserre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u112	The appropriations we are considering this afternoon are in addition to the long list of means used by the Government in support of the twofold challenge we have set ourselves: to allow the best possible access to our entire territory for all French people while reducing the impact of transport on the environment. Since 2017, we have placed the issue of French mobility at the heart of our concerns. The law of 27 June 2018 for a new railway pact allowed the opening up of this sector to competition as well as a revision of the governance of the SNCF, whose debt recovery by the state will be in 2022 to 10 billion euros after a recovery of 25 billion in 2020. In 2019, the LOM set ambitious targets by increasing the resources allocated to network regeneration and infrastructure projects: nearly 14 billion euros will be invested between 2019 and 2023, an increase of 40% compared to the previous four years. We can also welcome the State's commitment to green mobility through support to the mobility authorities during the health crisis, amounting to more than €7 billion. The appropriations that concern us this afternoon – transport, maritime affairs and the annex air budget – represent almost a third of the total budget of the Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility mission for 2022. In the field of road transport, discussions on the social aspect and access to the market and occupation of the Mobility I package have led to new measures that open up the prospect of more balanced economic competition and better working conditions for drivers. These new provisions entered into force in August 2020 as regards the social aspect, in particular as regards driving and rest time for drivers; the other measures will be implemented from February 2022. The funds for this mission are on hand. Beyond the appropriations for this mission, we cannot analyse the state's investments in the field of transport, let alone the EUR 11.5 billion of the France Relaunch Plan dedicated to intermodality, the opening up of territories or the technological transformation of transport. Nearly 5 billion are spent on the rail sector, nearly 3 billion on the conversion of the fleet and more than 1 billion on day-to-day mobility. I would also like to welcome the State's commitment of EUR 1.6 billion in three calls for clean-site public transport projects that have enabled the construction or construction of more than 1000 kilometres of lines. I am particularly pleased with the results of the last call for a project of 900 million euros, which will finance the two structural projects in the Basque Country: the future multimodal exchange hub of the Saint-Jean-de-Luz station and a high-level coastal express line from Bayonne to Henday, which are essential for mobility in the territory. With regard to the aviation sector, the Government has intervened massively since the beginning of the health crisis in order to save the civil aviation sector, avoiding the failure and downsizing of the aviation sector, while the sharp fall in activity directly threatened several tens of thousands of jobs. The draft budget 2022 is therefore in a context of persistent crisis, with the aim of neutralizing its effects on revenue and expenditure by accompanying the aviation sector in its resilience to the crisis and promoting the expected environmental developments of the sector. Finally, we welcome the additional nearly EUR 30 million allocated to the Maritime Transport Programme. This increase will, among other things, fund the announced support for the École nationale supérieure maritime, strengthening its role as a centre of excellence training on the national and international scene; It will also fund a fund to the territories to support local projects such as the removal of shipwrecks or the renovation of marine structures. The choices made in this programme aim more broadly to promote sustainable and essential maritime activities in order to maintain France's position as the world's second largest maritime power. On all these subjects – land, air and river transport – the France 2030 investment plan announced by the President of the Republic, which plans to allocate almost 4 billion euros to it, must enable France to design the transports of the future. The difference will be on break-up and innovation technologies; That is why we expect massive financial and human investment in research and development. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will conclude by reaffirming the support of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Democrats associated with the budgetary guidelines adopted on the aspects of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u113	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u114	In the middle of COP26 for the climate in Glasgow, it is no longer a good time for declarations of intent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u115	That's why we're acting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u116	We must act quickly and resolutely in favour of the climate. First of all, it is an exemplary national policy, if we want to have a credible voice that brings to the international level as was the case during the COP21 in Paris. We are very far from the climate targets France has set itself to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. The first important step is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. The reality of the finance bill is bleak and hard at the same time. In fact, 347 new posts are being abolished within the perimeter of the mission Ecology, notably among the staff responsible for water and biodiversity, as well as at Météo-France, Voies navigables de France and CEREMA. After almost a thousand deletions under last year's finance law and 8195 deletions in total since 2017, it would be time to reverse the trend. In view of the environmental emergency, we cannot be content with a slowing down of the rate of abolition of posts; There is an urgent need to create new jobs within the state civil service to better support transitions, anticipate the consequences of climate change and preserve our natural heritage. How can you advertise doing more and better with less means? On the other hand, the detailed examination of the Mission's appropriations shows that some public policies, which are essential to the ecological transition, suffer from reduced appropriations. This is particularly the case for the following budget lines: Action 14 Major natural risk prevention funds, whose commitment authorisations are down 43.37 % compared to the initial finance law for 2021, Action 44 Collective transport, for which they are down by almost 37 %, and Action 45 Combined transport, with a decrease of 12.3%. However, transport is the country's most greenhouse gas emitting sector, with 31% of emissions; Decarbonisation and investment to achieve this should therefore be increased. Unfortunately, this is far from the case. I would like to alert you to these declines in appropriations and to remind you of our priorities for sustainable mobility in the service of resorption of territorial inequalities, ecological transition and employment: strengthening the quality of the public transport offer; approaching rail as a common good by supporting small lines, night trains and rail freight; make the sustainable mobility package compulsory and cumulative; Strengthen financial support to communities for the implementation of sustainable mobility policies, including through the Bike Plan; better support the automotive sector in its low-carbon transition... I have no doubt that you will support the bill that I have just tabled with my group to introduce a zero-rate "sustainable mobility" loan scheme in order to allow all French people to access a cleaner vehicle through an interest-free loan and with a guarantee from the State, a simplification of the procedures with the advance of the existing aid and an accompaniment for households who want to change vehicles. This is a budget line that could have been ambitious from a social point of view to anticipate the establishment of low-emission-mobility zones (LFE-m) in large urban agglomerations. Unfortunately, the sense of social and fiscal injustice in our country is likely to persist. My group will continue to be in the proposal: we will defend serious and ambitious amendments that would actually meet the climate challenge before us, but I fear that the same word will be systematically opposed to them, as you have been doing since the beginning of the work in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u117	It's unbearable...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u118	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] The last five-year ecology budget could have been that of catching up, but it must be noted that the "whatever it costs" is not applied in response to the environmental crisis. However, in the face of the explosion of environmental inequalities, we urgently need new measures to accompany households. To prepare for the future, we also need new investments to organize the transition of trades and skills, pool the consequences of environmental risks and strengthen our sustainable mobility infrastructure. We could, should have and should have done more, ladies and gentlemen of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u119	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u120	Having previously referred to the appropriations of the Maritime Affairs programme, I will concentrate on land and air transport. The challenge is global: the transportation sector is one of the most greenhouse gas emitters, and it is essential to have a coordinated and coherent vision of the decarbonization efforts to be carried out on all three sides, land, sea and air. The urgency to act is no longer to be demonstrated. Just a few months ago, the IPCC was sounding the alarm ring again by inviting us to a collective jump. Decarbonization of mobility must be at the heart of our priorities. It must be recognized that under this legislature, the Government and the majority have accelerated the energy transition and that the transport budget is more than ever part of the transformation that has taken place in our country, which we must remember is only in its infancy. Of course, the effort made is important, but we are still far from the goal. Added to this is an unfavourable economic environment, with an increase in the price of fuel, which commits us to change our practices for both economic and ecological reasons. The Transport Infrastructure and Services programme has €3.8 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of almost €150 million over 2021. This increase is significant: much has been done for the development of rail freight, the maintenance of small lines, the aid for the reopening of night trains which will continue next year. In addition, the budget appropriations dedicated to the recovery plan, which continues to support the decarbonisation of our economy and transport for the coming year. As a result, €1.36 billion will be dedicated to the financing of green infrastructure and mobility. We must have a transversal view of the modes of transport: land, but also maritime and air. As such, our group welcomes the effort on green hydrogen. It is an energy of the future that can transform our most polluting transport, and our country can be a European and global leader in this field. It was announced by the President of the Republic at the presentation of the France 2030 plan. We strongly support this commitment to innovation, research and the development of these technologies. It is necessary to speed up, while bearing in mind that the sector has been heavily affected by the crisis – this applies not only to the maritime sector but also to the air sector. Deputy Minister, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fate of the regional airlines, whose interest is strategic – only for the overseas territories, but also for the national territory. I know that the tax support arrangements for these companies will be strengthened in non-attached articles. In the crisis we are experiencing, however, support cannot be limited to State-guaranteed loans (GLPs), as they will have to be repaid; We must add exceptional loans to them, as we have been able to do for our national company – others have already mentioned. To address these economic and environmental challenges, the Government has already planned a massive research support plan. Can you tell us about his progress? With regard to the hydrogen aircraft, the 2035 target seems difficult to achieve – can we hope to achieve this? These transformations are necessary, both in the overseas and in the Hexagon. Let us ensure that the archipelagic dimension of our country is fully integrated into the development of national strategies. It is often forgotten that France is not only hexagonal: it is global, it is maritime, and all the space so concerned is also aerial. In aeronautics, we must ensure that the overseas countries and territories are engaged in the same dynamic as the metropolis. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the UDI-I and LT groups]] The Action Together group will vote for the Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u121	We remain in the Pacific: Mr. Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u122	The seas and oceans are an exceptional natural heritage. With an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of over 11 million square kilometres, 97% of which are overseas, France has the second largest maritime area in the world. Its protection is a key issue, as it contains exceptional biodiversity but is threatened by overexploitation and too intensive use of resources. I am thinking in particular of the preservation of coral reefs. The French Coral Reef Initiative (IFRECOR) published a report on their state of health in 2020, which revealed a contrasting balance, with large disparities between the territories: the reefs are rather healthy in the French communities in the Pacific, but are more fragile in the overseas communities whose surface area is smaller. France has a special responsibility in this area. First, with 10% of the planet's reefs, three quarters of which are Caledonian, it is the world's fourth largest reef power. Secondly, with the law for the recovery of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, it has committed itself to protecting all its reefs by 2025: we do not have much time left to achieve this ambitious goal. In the 205 Maritime Affairs programme, the significant increase in payment appropriations and commitment authorizations is good news for the maritime world, hard hit by the health crisis. We would also like to highlight the increase in appropriations for maritime safety and security, which are used in particular to finance the operational regional surveillance and rescue centres in metropolitan France and the overseas communities, particularly in New Caledonia and French Polynesia, i.e. in an indo-pacific region that has come back to the heart of current events. We found out that she was now strategic. Illegal fishing is becoming increasingly common there, so the monitoring of its territorial waters is essential, especially since it is not limited to stopping them. In the field of transport, the IDU and Independent Group welcomes the continuation of the recovery plan, which focuses on the development of sustainable infrastructure and mobility, in particular with the sustainability of the ATFIF resources and massive support for rail transport. We are convinced that we must promote the decarbonisation of the transport sector and act to achieve France's ambitious climate and environmental objectives. Nevertheless, we will not be able to do so in a brutal manner or to the detriment of our fellow citizens. In this sense, our group welcomes the maintenance of such devices as the vehicle conversion premium. With regard to the energy transition, French communities in the Pacific must also be accompanied. I will defend an amendment to extend to this territory the application of the Advenir scheme, created to encourage the deployment of electric vehicle charging infrastructures, which recently received a new €100 million envelope. Like Maina Sage, I will end by referring to the situation of air transport, which is heavily affected by the health crisis. No return to 2019 is expected until 2024. The aviation sector also faces the environmental need to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. In the context of the crisis we are experiencing, it must also ensure territorial continuity, particularly in the overseas regions. Let me highlight the situation of the airlines in the Pacific communities, whose survival is threatened by the disastrous effects of the health crisis. They play a major role in territorial continuity and thus ensure a true public service mission, in the noble sense of the term, since they are almost alone in serving the territories, contributing to their opening up. Aircalin, in New Caledonia, is the only company to connect the ultramarine territories of the Pacific and the only air link that connects Wallis-et-Futuna with the rest of the world. Despite significant efforts – a reduction in its fleet, a 20% reduction in its workforce, a reduction in the salaries of all employees – the company expects a significant deterioration in its cash flow next year. Only specific financial support from the State, estimated at EUR 30 million, will allow it to spend the year 2022, during which traffic will be at risk despite the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u123	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u124	Three years after the peak of October 2018, a catalyst for the yellow vest crisis, fuel prices reached new records. Are we better prepared than we were then? Are adequate answers provided to the French who depend on their car and see the price at the pump climb? You will no doubt answer that this is the case, because inflation compensation is a simple, fair and effective measure. On the contrary, I consider it to be necessary, but poorly calibrated and inequitable, since it does not take into account the actual expenditure or the specific situations of our fellow citizens, as would have been possible on the basis of the kilometric charges calculated according to the tax scale of income tax. You will add that since the beginning of the quinquennium, you have implemented structural reforms aimed at building tomorrow's mobility. Again, we will have some reservations, despite the excellence of the recommendations of the report "Mobility of everyday life: responding to emergencies and preparing for the future", published by the Council d'orientation des infrastructures (COI), in which I had participated with Barbara Pompili. As far as the rail sector is concerned, I recognise good measures. On the occasion of the law for a new railway pact, passed under the government of Édouard Philippe, we had for example witnessed the resumption of part of SNCF Réseau's debt. In 2020, 25 billion were taken over by the State; the remaining 10 billion will be in 2022. This should enable the SNCF Group to address openness to competition with clean finance. I will be more serious about the security of level crossings, which is largely inadequate – we will come back to this when we discuss amendments tabled by the Libertés et Territoires Group. The IOC had recommended an additional €50 to €65 million, but we are far from it. Thanks to the recovery plan, the ATFIF budget will be abounded with an additional €750 million, as the Special Rapporteurs have said, in favour of the regeneration of railways, night trains, the accessibility of railway stations and freight. However, it would have been necessary to go further and provide for a genuine Marshall Railway Plan; A few years ago, the big loan supported major investments, which allowed the high-speed line (LVG) Towers-Bordeaux to be realized. The Bordeaux-Toulouse line is a step forward, but it is not enough to make the planning policy as a whole. Our group will therefore defend an amendment aimed at financing large amounts of new projects, in particular the Bordeaux road bypass. I take this rostrum to point out the shortcomings of the last State-region plan contracts, as I did last year with Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot. The State had committed itself to financing certain infrastructure projects. As has not all been, you have been forced to carry forward the funds dedicated to the mobility component over the next two years, and you have referred the transport negotiations back to 2023. These are all structural projects for the territories that have been pushed back. We are also concerned about the quality of the road network. Of course, the trajectory is respected, but on the ground, it continues to deteriorate. In ten years, maintenance investments have fallen by 24%. As a result, half of the pavements and one third of the bridges are damaged and require repairs. France, first in 2012, fell to 18th place in the ranking according to the quality of the roads established by the World Economic Forum. With regard to the automotive sector, you announced that the conversion premium would be extended to its current level until July 2022. We welcome this decision, which will encourage the purchase of clean vehicles at a time when more and more citizens are giving up thermal vehicles, especially in cities. On the other hand, we regret the end of the ecological bonus for plug-in hybrid cars as of 1 July 2022. Some of the models concerned are produced in France – I don't mention any brands –; They allow you to drive with less CO and support our domestic industry. Air transport is one of the sectors that suffered most during the health crisis. As our Pacific colleagues have said, the stakes for the companies are vital. Our industry has been heavily assisted, including the aviation sector, through the Government's support plan. I pay tribute to the efforts and action of the teams of the Directorate General for Civil Aviation (DGAC), whose Director I welcome, who is attending our discussions. The aid measures have kept the industry afloat during the crisis. In the longer term, the challenge will be to accompany the ecological transition of the sector. With the "climate and resilience" law, you have chosen to remove certain internal lines, such as the one linking Bordeaux to Paris: we regret it. Finally, the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the creation of the Directorate-General for the Sea on 1 January 2022; I know how much Mrs. Annick Girardin has deployed energy to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u125	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u126	Transport, or rather transport, is at the heart of the ecological and social crises we are experiencing. The climatic nuisances they cause and their effects on the living conditions of our citizens, particularly in terms of noise and air pollution, are such that it can be considered that transport issues are a matter of political responsibility rather than of technology. Yet much of the political decision-making on transport is beyond the reach of Parliament and Members, and not just of any kind: the decision on infrastructure. Given that infrastructure choices are a condition for transport policies for decades, it is completely abnormal that they should be entrusted to AFITF. It is a black box, a state operator submitted to the Directorate-General for Infrastructure, Transport and the Sea (DGITM), thus to the Ministry of Environmental Transition. It has own resources from various taxes; All directions are dictated by the department, so that it has no decision-making autonomy and ultimately serves only as a funding fund. With the widespread use of competition funds, these funds are used at the discretion of the department, and we are faced with a circumvention of Parliament's budgetary law and legislative authority. No more, no less. Moreover, at a time when we need to discuss the country's transport budget guidelines, the AFITF's forecast budget is not known. Therefore exits the discussions on infrastructure. I cannot vote for the part of the public space reserved for a particular means of transport, in particular to address the place of active mobility: you will decide and AFITF will execute. We can always set goals and trajectories, but if we don't have any investment leverage as a result, what's the point? In my opinion, investments in transport infrastructure in France are not only small; They are mostly poorly oriented, with a considerable advantage to the road hauliers. Let us take the example of active mobilities, which I mentioned at the moment, and especially bicycles. If 10% of the AFITF's budget were devoted to this, compared to only 1.7%, we would have a bike plan up to the 9% modal share targeted in 2024 and decided jointly; This would amount to 500 million a year, as requested by ADEME and all associations in the sector. The same applies to rail, a mode of transport of the future by definition, for which we do not have infrastructure expenditure. It's amazing to see that when we approach certain subjects, magic money starts to rain. Built four years ago by Macron himself, and then by the Board of Infrastructure Guidance, the great railway project of the South-West, the famous GPSO, is timely. The state is about to inject 4 billion and asks the authorities concerned to do the same to finance an LGV which, at best, would save twenty-two minutes between Bordeaux and Toulouse and six minutes between Bordeaux and Dax: 166 million euros per minute won! This is a lot of money, but few beneficiaries: TGVs carry only one eighth of the passenger flow. This LGV aspires to investments for years to come, to the detriment of daily mobility. Les Bordelais and Les Toulousains will continue to lose 13 hours a month in traffic jams, six days and 14 hours non-stop each year, blocked in their cars, without any alternative solution. In addition, the well-known Infrastructure Guidance Board has made this clear in its report: with work on these lines, it is possible to obtain the same benefits in travel time as a new line at a much lower cost. But this option, your government doesn't even want to consider it. No, you prefer to artificialize 4830 hectares of natural agricultural areas, Natura 2000 sites and hectares of forest. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Deputy Minister, you are not responsible for the creation of the AFITF, nor for that state of affairs that dispossessssssssed us of our prerogatives denounced by the Senate and the Court of Auditors. But – there is one "but" – you have been guilty of inaction for four years to get out of this budgetary opacity. In reality, this opacity helps you; You even organize it, when you refuse to send us the Philizot and Roche-Rapoport reports, which concern our rails and our roads. Finally, you are in the image of Macronie: a curtain of smoke and permanent communication – and skillful – to decide alone and give the illusion that you are acting for the interest of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u127	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u128	Minister, Minister Delegate, we are debating transportation and the provisions of the climate law are being developed nationally. I would particularly like to draw your attention to the creation of low-emission zones in major cities. We told you, on behalf of the Communist Group, that these provisions were not accompanied by sufficient measures to support the purchase of clean vehicles for households and small businesses faced with the growing bans on access and movement within the EFAs. All this has been confirmed to you by a parliamentary investigation report by two of our colleagues. However, in the budget for 2022, we see no new elements, either on the conversion bonus or the ecological bonus, or, more importantly, on the state's financial contribution. In our view, this should be substantially increased to allow road users to acquire a vehicle that meets the standards of the ZFE, i.e. both electric or hybrid vehicles and small, second-hand, low-emitting thermal cars. This is the commitment of a deaf mechanism of social and territorial discrimination which is likely to be particularly detrimental to social cohesion. [[Smile]] 10 million vehicles are intended to be banned from traffic in forty-five metropolises on 1 January 2025. If the less favoured French people are to be allowed to change their vehicles and continue to travel, there will undoubtedly have to be a substantial increase in premiums, particularly the conversion premium. To finance such a measure, for example, large electric or hybrid sedans may be excluded from the device, the ecological interest of which is questionable. Other proposals have been put forward, notably by my elegant colleague Gérard Leseul, but there is a matter for major debate in the current period. [[Smile]] In addition, the question arises of the financing of public transport, and in particular of rail transport. If I may, minister, you're a little underwear here to do things! You have particularly active partners – I am thinking of trade union organisations – on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u129	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u130	You and your colleagues have been led to defend a national low-carbon strategy that sets targets for increasing the modal share of rail passenger transport to +27% by 2030 and +79% by 2050. In the same way, the freight strategy has just been published: again, we feel that there is something to do. However, we note that the current investment budget path is simply not sufficient to achieve climate objectives and to ensure the optimal functioning of the network. The objectives of modal delay and the development of rail traffic are unattainable with the investment dynamics defined so far in the recovery plan. In the government plan, the bulk of the appropriations for only two years are intended to cover and preserve SNCF Réseau's investment capacity and to maintain the regeneration work already under way. Only 14% of the amount of the plan is allocated to new investment credits. That's if we stay on our hunger! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Furthermore, a strong and legible impetus should be given, e.g. through tax and tariff arrangements that make rail more attractive, both in terms of price and quality, for the vast majority of households. All this is estimated at an additional 2 or 3 billion per year for ten years, to meet the objectives and the promised trajectories. As far as ecological transition is concerned, the honest observation we make is that the means do not follow an adequate path. That is why, Minister Delegate, we will vote against the appropriations for these missions – while apologizing, Madam Minister, for not having devoted a few moments to maritime problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u131	The Minister for the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u132	In 2019, at the foundation of the economy of the sea, the President of the Republic had expressed the wish to accelerate our maritime strategy. The appropriations for programme 205, which is more than 20% more than in 2021, are indicative of this acceleration, and I would even say that this political awareness has been raised. Yes, France is turning more and more towards the sea. Last example: the France 2030 plan has dedicated its tenth objective to the deep seabed, with 300 million euros over the period and 4 million from 2022. The sea is above all a good to protect, and it is a great source of wealth for our country. It is in these two dimensions that I will develop my action. First dimension: the sea, a good to protect. For having negotiated them on behalf of France, I am very committed to the 17 sustainable development goals and, of course, to the fourteenth of them, which concern the oceans and which is the centre of my action; It's the DNA of my department and that's how I understand all my actions. This is the key issue, although not all of the protection measures in the budget are included in the 205 programme. Nevertheless, the action of the administration of the sea, which will be unified from 1 January 2022 within a Directorate-General for the Sea, is geared towards this objective. The means we allocate to the control of activities at sea allow us to guarantee the sustainability of the exploitation of resources and the safety of navigation – some of you have talked about it. I plead for a modern sea administration. The draft budget also provides for the continuation of the plan to modernise maritime affairs to the tune of EUR 5 million, in addition to the EUR 50 million of the recovery plan. Similarly, the resources allocated to the Société nationale de rescuing en mer (SNSM) are maintained to the tune of 10.5 million, as I had committed to it. Protecting the sea also means combating pollution and global warming. Section 8 of the Finance Bill provides for the relaxation of the green depreciation criteria, which allows us to help shipowners to green their fleet taxably. I attach great importance to the negotiations under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) on carbon taxation. I also hope that the One Ocean Summit event, which will take place in Brest earlier this year, will provide an opportunity to co-ordinate the interests of our foreign partners to move forward more quickly in this area. Second dimension: the sea, a source of wealth. Developing the blue economy, creating jobs, consolidating our businesses and facilitating innovation are imperatives – as you also said. The maritime Fontenoy has set itself this objective in terms of trade fleets and industrial ecosystems. In order to create 5,000 direct jobs in ten years, we invest heavily in training. The National Maritime College will be doubled by 2027, with an increase of 45% in the grant to the institution as of this year. Still with regard to employment, we are creating a three-year marine employment assistance for all employers of sailors affiliated with the National Marine Invalids Institution (ENIM). After aid to the emergency of the crises of the Covid and Brexit, we made the choice of competitiveness and employment development, with aid of up to EUR 30 million. For ferries, further work on the sector's economic model is under way. We have also granted a grant of $45 million to Brittany Ferries, which will be financed by the Ministry of the Sea. But the maritime economy is also a local economy, anchored in the territories. I am therefore very pleased with the creation of a Maritime Intervention Fund, called FIM, with 17.5 million, which will be a full-fledged action under the 205 programme. The purpose of this fund is to show the action on the ground of the communities, associations or the State itself; It must rise in the years to come. It will allow rapid and concrete financing, in a flexible and flexible way, of the actions promoted by the elected representatives of the territories and the facade strategy that we are setting up: the ecological anchorage, the subjects relating to the heritage, the marinas, the greening of small service boats, actions that were not financed so far. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] After a year of existence, the Ministry of the Sea is strengthened in the choice of its priorities, its organization and its budget. My action is clear: I make the Ministry of the Sea a political authority promoting an integrated, coordinated and ambitious maritime strategy in order to meet the economic and ecological challenges of the 21st maritime century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u133	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u134	We are living a particular moment in our history, an acceleration of the world and its upheavals, whose transport is not exempt. Electrification is the fastest transformation of automobiles and decarbonization, the biggest challenge in aviation history. They do not mark the end of these modes of transport, but a new beginning. A new start is precisely what we wanted to do with the quinquennium of investment in transport. Since 2017, their budget has increased steadily and the budget of 2022, which brings us together today, is no exception. It reaches around EUR 14 billion, a high level of expenditure consistent with the mobility guidance law and the "climate and resilience" law. All programmes have increased their appropriations: the appropriations for the 203 transport infrastructure and services programme are increasing by 4% to EUR 3.84 billion; AFITF's share of 2.5% to €3.47 billion, civil aviation's 5% to €2.38 billion. This budget is based on two slogans: de-enclave and decarbonize. Unlocking because our goal remains the same: to give our fellow citizens more means to move, wherever they are. Decarbonisation means transforming the modes of transport that emit the most CO and strengthening those that emit the least CO. These objectives therefore involve supporting the rail mode, which we do like no other government before us. First of all, freight – this was mentioned last year – to which we provided massive and unprecedented additional support – captivated, to take your word, Mr Wulfranc – by allocating EUR 170 million in operating aid. It was thanks to this support that the Perpignan-Rungis line was able to restart a few days ago. In 2022, we will continue this envelope for three years. It will help to start up other railway motorways, including Calais-Sète and Cherbourg-Bayonne, reduce half of rail tolls, increase aid for combined transport or support the single car. We will further increase support to SNCF Network in order to achieve the objective of allocating €3 billion per year to the regeneration of the network.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u135	[[Exclaims on all benches]] Mr Deputy Minister, forgive me, but the Conference of Presidents has set out the arrangements for organising the budget discussion. It is exceptional that ministers should have time to speak, but you are limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u136	Excuse me, but I started two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u137	Time count didn't start again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u138	Censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u139	Forgive me, it's my fault! Go on, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u140	So I'm not censored, I'm going after it. We will therefore reach the target of €3 billion per year for regeneration, which will be reaffirmed in the performance contract that we will sign at the beginning of 2022, which will provide for an additional €100 million in grants, in particular for charges charged for the use of the national rail network by TETs – regional balance trains – and TERs – regional express trains – and €1.67 billion paid in 2022 in the form of a recapitalisation grant, provided for in the France Recovery Plan. Decarbonation also involves modal reporting, which sometimes requires large infrastructure projects, I am thinking of Lyon-Turin and the Seine-Nord Europe Canal. Thanks to the recovery plan, we are accelerating their work: an additional EUR 124 million will be dedicated to them next year. Decarbonation obviously concerns air transport – I have already mentioned it. In 2022, almost 1 billion more euros will be spent on aeronautics research thanks to the recovery plan and the France 2030 plan – Mrs Sage, I will certainly have the opportunity to clarify all this during the questions. Finally, to decarbonize and deenclave, we must innovate. That is why I wanted to create the Transport Innovation Agency; EUR 4 million will be allocated for its installation. Unsurprisingly, this budget remains affected by the crisis. I told you last year that it would have long-term consequences, which were anticipated in this budget, as far as possible. For AFITF, an additional EUR 250 million in revenue will have to be offset at the end of management 2021, as last year. Nevertheless, its trajectory remains far superior to that foreseen in the LOM, largely thanks to the recovery plan which allocated it an additional 750 million euros in 2022. With regard to the civil aviation budget, a loan will still be needed, estimated at €710 million by 2022. On the basis of these assumptions, the level of debt is expected to reach €3.3 billion by the end of 2022. The annexed budget would therefore begin its deleveraging from 2023 onwards. Since 2017, we have made unprecedented investments in transportation to regenerate aging networks, to accelerate development and modernization projects, to create new mobility opportunities. We have doubled the annual budget for the regeneration of the railway network, which has increased the resources devoted to the regeneration of our river network; the credits for bicycles have increased from EUR 0 million to EUR 500 million. The crisis has only strengthened our priorities. Following the programming of the Mobility Policy Act, the recovery plan was strongly supported: in the case of transport, it has already been implemented at more than 85 per cent. If I believe the candidates for the presidential election already declared, many of whom are taking up projects that we have undertaken in their programme – on the boundaries or on the small lines, for example – we have made the right choices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Activité ens and IDU-I groups]] Before considering your amendments, I would like to thank you for the constructive attitude that, beyond the political divides each year, has animated our work, and for the determined action that we have taken together in the service of French mobility. In particular, I would like to thank the Members of the majority: we have defended all these projects together and I am confident that we will have them adopted together in the context of this last budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u141	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that their duration is set at two minutes, as is the duration of the answers. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u142	The decade has been marked by significant changes for ports in the fight against climate change. However, it is recognized that shipping goods is one of the main sources of greenhouse gases and, according to current estimates, CO emissions from shipping are expected to continue to increase. The finance bill for 2022 incorporates, it is true, several proposals adopted at the end of the Fontenoy of the maritime, in order to allow the greening of the French maritime transport. This requires, in particular, the desire to strengthen tax support for shipping companies engaged in the ecological transition, on the occasion of the renewal of their fleet. It is therefore incomprehensible that to date certain lines of certain French ferry companies, such as the Corsica Linea and the Méridionale, are excluded from the maritime employment aid scheme, which applies only to companies which are not public service delegated. However, the Public Service Delegation (PSD), I would remind you, has never been intended to respond to the losses associated with the crisis of the covid and much less to contribute to the ecological transition. The introduction of this scheme to provide exceptional support to shipping companies affected by the covid-19 crisis is an essential support measure for these companies which are also heavily involved in the environmental transition. The ecological transition of ferry activity under the French flag between Marseille and Corsica must be fully accompanied by the Government. So, Madam Minister, are you considering the introduction of universal maritime employment assistance without discrimination and applicable to all companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u143	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u144	Aid for maritime employment is a reimbursement scheme for charges whose primary objective is to preserve employment and support flags. Of course, other types of aid for the energy transition exist, as you know: over-amortization, coupling with state guarantees or tax leasing, which have been announced in the framework of the maritime Fontenoy. Today, this aid is open to all maritime sectors. We have increased its ceiling to EUR 30 million – as I said earlier. Yes, we excluded from this scheme public service delegates, who were also in the 2021 emergency system. This does not mean that the companies you mentioned do not receive state aid for the rest of their activities or actions. For example, for 2021, EUR 1.1 million in aid to the Méridionale or EUR 850000 in Corsica Linea may be higher, depending on the number of jobs created. However, we do not forget the question of maritime links under DSP and, after the foundation of the economy of the sea in Nice, at the request of the President of the Republic, I have launched a complementary work to define the concept of public service and territorial continuity, respecting the powers of the communities. This study is under way. Together with my colleague Djebari, you know, we are committed to working on social dumping and we will work on it in the framework of the Presidency of the European Union, in order to provide substantive answers to the question of competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u145	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u146	My question is about Program 205 Maritime Affairs. Thanks to its overseas operations, France is the world's second largest maritime power. Because of its wealth and the tremendous potential it represents for humanity, but also because of its fragility, which is revealed every day a little more, France has a major role to play in the decades to come. The creation in 2020 of a Ministry of the Sea within the Government reflects our national ambition to become a great maritime power again. This year, a new impetus is being given to maritime affairs, with a budget of EUR 192.8 million, up 21%. This budget puts the people of the sea at the top of the agenda. Increases in funding will primarily benefit safety and security, with an allocation of €34.4 million to better protect human lives at sea. The sea is also employment and an important part of France's economy, which relies on it and its resources to feed, trade or move. A large part of the funds will therefore go to employment and training, which will be provided with EUR 31.6 million and will therefore be strengthened, as will support the National Maritime College. The commercial fleet will be allocated €89.4 million, thanks to exemptions from employers' charges, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our national pavilion. At the same time, inter-ministerial action will have an envelope for the preservation of the marine environment, which is increasing by 120%. This is in addition to the efforts made under the recovery plan, which directly benefit large seaports, the fisheries sector, the construction industry and recreational activities. Minister, much has been done since 2020. In addition, this year, you are introducing the Marine Response Fund. Can you describe the strategy behind the creation of this new funding tool?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u147	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u148	You have mentioned the Maritime Intervention Fund, the FIM – it is already known as this, given that we are used to systematically giving short names to our devices – which has just been created and which has a budget of 17.5 million euros. Last year, we had already fought for projects from the field experience that had not been sufficiently taken into account. The observation was simple: when I moved around the territory, I exchanged with associations and elected representatives, who told me that many were small projects that could not find support from traditional organizations or within the framework of the usual strategies. It is a flexible tool, as I said earlier, which can, for example, be used to carry out actions arising from maritime strategies of facades and sea basins – I was referring to ecological anchorages. We were unable to provide a quick answer to these questions, and that is what we have done today. The issue of the removal of wrecks is also a matter that we have been dragging on for many years; We will now be able to act. We will be able to launch a dynamic in the territories and promote a number of small projects, including littoral projects. It is important that we also support training and knowledge. I don't want a fund headed up; projects must go back to the ground. The interregional directorates of the sea – DIRM –, the elected representatives of the territories and yourself, ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to promote this fund, which is at the service of field activities. With a budget of 17.5 million euros for the year 2022, its budget is intended to increase according to the dynamics of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u149	I call the credits from the mission Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility, listed in state B. Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1621.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u150	It aims to save €2 billion on public energy service charges, given the rise in energy prices. This is, I would say, a budgetary consideration of the expected decrease in the amount of public support for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u152	The amount of the decrease in expenses for 2022, estimated in October 2021 by the CRE, is provisional and provided for information purposes. The revisions of charges will be final at the end of the July 2022 deliberations and will have an impact on the disbursements of 2023 and not, therefore, on the 2022 budget. The €8.449 billion appropriations to finance the compensation of public energy service charges are needed to offset the operators' charges in 2022 – including the last payment for EDF in January 2022, for 2021, for 2 billion euros. If the appropriations for the 345 programme – which are compulsory expenditure – are reduced by EUR 2 billion, the debt to EDF will increase by EUR 3.1 billion at the beginning of 2023, aggravating budgetary drift and carry-overs. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u153	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2331.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u154	This amendment, unlike the previous one, aims to support renewable energies so that the country can catch up with the delay. In 2020, the latter accounted for only 19.1% of final gross energy consumption with a target of 23%. And we have not chosen the figure of 2 billion euros by chance: it corresponds to the reduction of 1 billion euros in renewable energy support provided for in this PLF – since the investment depends on the price of energy, which is open to competition, which for us makes no sense – as well as the billion euros announced to support the nuclear sector under the France 2030 programme. Although we have discussed a great deal about the internal consumption tax on energy products (TICPE) or the nuclearisation of France, we have a President of the Republic who decides on a corner of the table about an energy policy which, however, affects the whole country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u156	I agree with you on one point: the President decides on his own. And, unfortunately, every day he wakes up by changing his decision. On the other hand, as far as your amendment is concerned, my opinion will be very unfavourable. You want to increase the appropriations to support renewable energies. However, the amount is recognized and the increase you are proposing will be of no use since it will not be needed. Then you rely on the negaWatt association to advertise 100% renewable, but you obviously did not read the same paragraphs as I did in the last TEN report, which points out that the choice of nuclear energy is essential to achieving carbon neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u158	The same opinion, except for what has just been said about the conclusions of the TEN report and which is not correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u159	And the fact that the President of the Republic would decide on his own!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u160	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u161	I'm not surprised at your answer, Mr. Aubert. Read the six scenarios developed by TEN: one of them envisages 100% renewable energy. It also seems to me that one can detect a factual error: in fact, the curves of renewable energy and nuclear prices have crossed. Now is not the time to debate it, but I wanted to remind you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u162	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1624.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u163	It aims to finance a recent commitment by the President of the Republic to the development of nuclear energy: love is good; The evidence of love is better. The amendment was rejected by the Finance Committee while the majority discovered the virtues of nuclear energy: it is therefore not too late. I propose a credit of 1 billion euros to finance the famous "nuclear" plan but also the project of fast-cooled industrial sodium reactor (ASTRID) which seeks to develop fourth-generation reactors. I would like to recall that the TEN report says that the "100% renewable energy" scenario is the most carbon-intensive and expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u164	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u165	It is feasible but you will explain to people, who pay electricity and fuel bills, why you have preferred this scenario.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u167	Unfavorable. I would remind the Special Rapporteur that the TEN report envisages six scenarios, all of which allow carbon neutrality to be achieved in 2050, and the cost forecasts show above all that ultimately, for the taxpayer, the increase in the price of energy will be substantially the same regardless of the scenario chosen. We must have fair discussions on this issue, that is, in accordance with what is written in the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u168	The next speaker is Mr. Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u169	In the cost of nuclear energy, we never take into account the cost of large tiling or the cost of waste management – which we do not know what will happen in ten thousand years' time. The debate therefore seems to me to be largely distorted and, in response to Mr Aubert, in addition to the cost, it should take into account the question of the safety of nuclear energy, given the danger it represents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u170	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u171	I am not going to talk about security to the former rapporteur of the Committee of Inquiry into the Safety and Security of Nuclear Facilities. You are talking about waste, Mr Coquerel, and the ASTRID project will solve this problem. Then, I insist, the "100% renewable energy" scenario is, among the six selected by TEN, the most expensive and carbon-intensive – it's not lying because it's exactly what's written.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u172	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2321.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u173	With this amendment, we denounce the inadequacy of the measures taken by the Government: gas prices rose by 10 per cent in July, by 5 per cent in August, by 8.7 per cent in September and by 12.6 per cent in October, an increase of 57 per cent since January. The tariff shield presented by the Government confirms the increase in prices in recent months and will be paid by the taxpayer. We are therefore asking you again, Madam Minister, why you are not blocking the price of energy, which would be an essential emergency measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u175	The committee did not consider this amendment. I personally express an unfavorable opinion because it does not explain the precise allocation of the 2 billion euros that you propose to use, beyond the political discourse criticizing the Government's announcements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u177	Unfavorable opinion – I explained why earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u178	Amendment No 468 by Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u179	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u180	The purpose of our colleague Castellani's amendment is to strengthen the amounts dedicated to the energy check. Faced with the energy insecurity that the French are increasingly confronted with because of the sharp rise in energy prices, it is a matter of restoring oxygen to the most vulnerable people. To date, some 5.8 million modest households have been eligible for the energy check. This support must be strengthened, especially after a health crisis that has increased insecurity. Currently, in the context of the draft amending finance law (PLFR) for 2021, the Government intends to grant an average of EUR 100 to each household. It is proposed to extend the scheme in the original Finance Act for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u181	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2261.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u182	It aims to mobilise EUR 250 million to create an increase to the energy check, for the benefit of municipalities located in a climate zone with a harsh climate. Indeed, if the energy check is dependent on the reference tax income of households – and that is a good thing – it does not take into account the strong climatic variations that may exist between the north and the south, or, for example, between Toulon and Bourg-d'Oisans. Such differentiation would not be unprecedented in the case of a social benefit. The amount of housing subsidies thus takes into account the level of rents according to a four-tier zoning. We therefore propose that the list of beneficiary municipalities set by decree should take account of the climatic zones H1, H2 and H3, on the one hand, and the specific constraints of certain municipalities which, although located in favourable climatic zones, are experiencing a harsher climate, particularly as a result of their altitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u183	What is the opinion of the committee, Mr Special Rapporteur, who is a Member of Parliament for the Vaucluse?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u184	Unfavorable opinion, not because I am Vaucluse but because the proposed device is a little complicated. Neither the Personalized Housing Assistance (APL) nor the Family Housing Allowance (FAA) nor the Social Housing Allowance (SLA) includes such a climate quotient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u185	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1625.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u186	This amendment, which I personally support because it has not been adopted by the committee, aims to create a programme to extend the energy cheque to the middle classes with EUR 150 million. The average classes concerned would be those whose annual reference tax income per unit of consumption is less than or equal to EUR 25000, i.e. households belonging, broadly speaking, to the third and fourth deciles of income. I propose opening the energy check to households in this category, so that, if energy expenditure accounts for at least 1% of their reference annual tax income, a EUR 150 energy check is paid to them. The aim is to prevent the middle classes from being penalized by rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u187	I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2322.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u188	We intend to show the limits of the MaPrimeRenov'device and therefore ask for additional means. It must be assumed that there are about 4.8 million thermal colanders in our country. We will agree, Madam Minister, that the priority for the coming years is energy sobriety and thus the reduction of energy consumption. But the problem with MaPrimeRénov' is that the most modest households are not the ones who benefit most – they still have 20% to pay for – and we can see that the combination of the different schemes benefits rather the most affluent households. Secondly, it is a question of simple work, when you know, like me, that the houses concerned must be renovated in a comprehensive manner if we are to move forward. Finally, MaPrimeRenov' does not sufficiently meet the standards of low-consumption building (BBC). In addition, the funds allocated for thermal renovation are insufficient: according to the Ministry of the Ecological Transition, the cost of the renovation of 4.8 million heat colanders between 2020 and 2030 would be €25 billion per year; renovation of D and E-classified dwellings would cost €40 billion per year between 2030 and 2040; in its 2020 study, the Renovation initiative! estimated investment needs to be at least EUR 3.2 billion each year and for 20 years. We are far from being able to meet these needs, which is why we propose to feed €2 billion into Action 02 Energy transition support from the 174 Energy, climate and post-mine programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u190	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u192	In 2022, the budget allocation for aid for the energy renovation of private housing will include €2 billion in funding under the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, apart from MaPrimeRenov' Co-ownerships. At the same time, there are other mechanisms such as Habiter plus serenity, which is aimed at households with very modest and modest incomes, carrying out global energy renovations. Since 2021, this work must lead to a reduction in primary energy consumption of at least 35%, compared to 25% in 2020. It is clear that there is a stronger requirement for the intrinsic quality of the work carried out. Since its creation, the aid Habiter plus serenity is gradually rising in power: at the end of October, the consumption of the device amounted to 390 million euros, compared to 278 million in 2020. This rise in power will have to continue. On 1 January 2022, this aid will evolve to become MaPrimeRenov' Serenity – so that everything is simpler, to help our fellow citizens find themselves among all the aids offered. Starting in July 2022, eligible homeowners will have the opportunity to combine this aid with C2E bonuses, including the Coup de pouvre renovation bonus, in the context of more ambitious work. In addition, ANAH will be entrusted with the role of facilitating the public service for the renovation of the habitat within the framework of the "climate and resilience" law. And the Agency's provision of aid for energy renewal will gradually be conditional on the use of support for certain efficient or global energy renovations. This will be the role, in particular, of the accompanying Renov'. I stress that if we want to move faster, we must be able to mobilize all actors to have enough trained artisans and companies able to carry out these renovations. The entire profession is mobilizing. It needs visibility and that is also why we are sustaining the aid as foreseen by the PLF for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u193	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No 2262.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u194	We want to credit the same budget line more. Madam Minister, the efforts you have made were necessary, because there is a lack of coordination of aid, or in any case a lack of support for individuals who are struggling to make the whole gesture of renovation. The Court of Auditors notes that MaPrimeRénov' is used for partial renovations, which are based only on a "monogest" of energy efficiency, which does not allow optimal performance. To carry out global renovations, training is necessary, as you said. That is why we believe it is necessary to commit additional amounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u196	As I explained in committee, I am not convinced of the value of global renovations; That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u197	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u198	For my part, I am convinced of their interest; However, my opinion is also unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u199	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 461.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u200	This amendment by Mr Castellani proposes to increase the budget of the ANAH in order to increase the total public aid for energy renewal managed by this agency, namely MaPrimeRénov'and Habiter plus serenity, to €4.2 billion by 2022. The amendment is based on a finding concerning the energy renewal of private housing: all the funds allocated to MaPrimeRénov'under the recovery plan will be consumed by the end of 2021, whereas the French budget was to be relaunched for two years, until the end of 2022. For example, for MaPrimeRenov'specifically, the Government committed a budget of 2.4 billion euros in 2021, compared to the 2 billion euros foreseen in the PLF for 2022. It is not acceptable that the budget for 2022 should be lower than that for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u202	The amendment poses a problem of accounts: you say that 400 million euros are missing in 2021, and then you propose to increase the budget by 1.65 billion euros. It's more than a catch-up. The PLFR will certainly compensate for the shortfall, but below the amount you expect. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u203	Amendment No 2277 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u204	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1622.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u205	It proposes to finance an experiment to replace oil boilers for 1 euro by taking note of the reduction in the expected amount of public service charges for energy in 2022. I am sure that all parliamentarians who have a social fibre will understand that this can replace millions of devices located in rural areas, relieve the modest classes and use the savings allowed by the losses on support for renewable energy as a result of rising energy prices. It is often said that the right does not make proposals; Here's one, which promotes another ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u207	The systems already in place, such as MaPrimeRénov' and the Coup de mouve chauffage offer as well as the C2Es already allow significant levels of aid for the change of a boiler to oil. Thus, I recall that a very modest household can get a minimum of 4000 euros in C2E cumulated with a aid MaPrimeRenov' of 4000 euros if it chooses an air-water heat pump or 10000 euros for a biomass boiler. The remainder can be financed by a zero-rate eco-loan. Thanks to these aids, people who have to replace their boiler with fuel oil because it has arrived at the end of their life can, for an amount equal to or even less than that of a new boiler with fuel oil, buy a better boiler for the environment. A new arrangement is therefore not necessary, especially since we have all understood that offers at 1 euro have a number of drawbacks – that is the least we can say. Finally, less attention can be paid to the quality of the work when it is free, an effect that no one wishes. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u208	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u209	I'm trying to help the government. Currently, 150,000 boilers are replaced per year while 300,000 boilers would have to be changed. So you're only reaching 50% of the target. I am making a proposal to increase these replacements to a large extent, using budgetary savings that we are seeing. Secondly, we must not mix the offer to 1 euro that is proposed here, in the context of which the state pays the replacement in full from budgetary appropriations, with the C2Es. You are right to denounce the perverse effects, but they are more related to the opacity of the system than to the technique itself, because it helps the modest classes, who are the most disadvantaged in this energy crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u210	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1925 and 1933, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u211	The aim is to improve the efficiency of the conversion premium by excluding a number of vehicles which we consider to be excessively expensive, so as to increase aid for the purchase of cheaper vehicles and thus enable modest households to access such vehicles, given the constraints which will be imposed on them, particularly in the context of the EFAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u212	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u213	There are several advantages and disadvantages to your proposals. Indeed, you go back to the decline in credits supporting the acquisition of clean vehicles in the PLF. In areas with high exclusion, it is important to support households. Next, you propose to exclude from the ecological bonus electric vehicles of more than 30000 euros. I myself had proposed an amendment on this subject, because I believe that the purchaser of a Tesla does not need the ecological bonus to make his conversion and that it is better to help the purchaser of a Kangoo. The only drawback seems to me to be the increase in the constraints on used vehicles in terms of COcar emissions, I fear that few used vehicles will be eligible. Despite this reservation, I am in favour of Amendment No 1925. On the other hand, I am less convinced by Amendment No 1933. Even if you raise the amount of the conversion premium to 10000 euros, I doubt that a modest household can afford an electric vehicle, even second-hand. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u215	Mr Special Rapporteur, I encourage you to look at the prices of used cars. I can guarantee you that with bonuses and conversion bonuses, used electric cars are very accessible, including for the most modest income. I can give you examples if you wish. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, you are critical of low-emission areas, even though they are designed to address air pollution, which kills 40,000 people a year. However, it is the most modest households that are most exposed to air pollution and are most often affected by it. It seems to me that we should return to more sensible exchanges, rather than calling into question a health safety measure. The Government gives an unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u216	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u217	Far be it from me to make a repudiatory judgment on the ZFEs. However, Madam Minister, take the Dacia, the Trabant of the Poor – it's just if it's riding properly and if the passengers are sitting comfortably inside; When you withdraw at its purchase price the ecological bonus, the aids of the region and those of the metropolis, it remains, for a very modest household, to pay between 5000 and 6000 euros with maturity of two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u218	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u219	[[Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] It's not given to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u220	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1045.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u221	It aims to return to the initial amounts of the ecological bonus for individuals. The green bonus is a welcome help in buying new vehicles. However, in July 2021, its terms and conditions were tightened and its amount reduced by EUR 1000. This aid is expected to be further reduced by EUR 1000 in 2022. Again, for modest people, who work far from home, electric vehicles often remain inaccessible. With this amendment, we would like to return to the amount of EUR 2000.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u223	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion. However, I support this amendment personally. As was recalled, the ecological bonus was to be reduced again in January 2022, but the Government found that there were elections. Flashed by the electoral radar, he decided to postpone the decline to July, but in two years, millions of French will find that once again, with this measure of the ZFE, an ecological policy has been made that prevents them from living and working. I think the reaction will be much more epidermal than the one we knew with the yellow vests. Minister, we are not launching free attacks; We give warnings. Each time, it's the same thing: you don't want to hear that not everyone has the financial opportunity to change their vehicle to respond to government ecological injunctions for two or three years; It's simply not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u225	Mrs Battistel, conversion bonuses and bonuses are extended at the current rate until June 2022; We'll see what happens after that, but until then, security is given to everyone who wants to buy a car. I would like to go back to what Mr Wulfranc said about the Dacia Spring. Taking into account only State aid, not to mention that granted by the local authorities, for the purchase of a Dacia Spring which costs about 16,000 euros, one can benefit from 4536 euros for the ecological bonus and 1000 euros if one lives in a ZFE. In addition, if an old petrol or diesel vehicle has been scrapped, a conversion premium of between 2500 and 5000 euros is available, with the bonus of 5000 euros for those with the lowest incomes. It is therefore more than 10500 euros out of the 16,000 euros that are covered by the State. Finally, these state aids must be added to those granted by the local authorities, which often amount to several thousand euros. It is necessary for everyone to have in mind that it is possible to buy quality cars, which will be able to operate in all low-emission areas, at these rates. I challenge anyone to cite a government that has made such an effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u226	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 1019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u227	This amendment, when presented in committee, has attracted the interest of several colleagues. It aims to create a responsible maintenance and repair check. The French rolling stock has about 39 million vehicles, which must be regularly diagnosed, repaired and maintained. However, according to several studies, the cost of maintaining a somewhat used vehicle, for modest families, amounts to almost 2500 euros. It is around 3000 euros for affluent households, but these have five times higher incomes. To make the car fleet of our modest citizens safer and to allow them access to a repair instead of driving in bad vehicles, even after an automobile diagnosis, it was important to create a responsible maintenance-repair check, based on the model of the conversion premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u229	The committee has given an opinion against this amendment, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u230	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 1020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u231	It aims to create a sustainable mobility bonus by extending the scope of the conversion premium to other mobility solutions, including cycling, car sharing and carpooling. In order to achieve our collective climate and air pollution objectives, we believe it is important to broaden the spectrum of individual and collective mobility. Such a system already exists in our neighbours, particularly in Belgium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u233	Unfavorable. There is clearly an error in targeting since you are proposing to finance the sustainable mobility premium by reducing the credits for aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles, which precisely support the purchase of electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u234	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2333.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u235	It is the result of a proposal by the Climate Action Network to extend the scope of the conversion premium to other more virtuous territorial mobility solutions. If we continue to subsidize the purchase of new vehicles without thinking about ecology, land-use planning and other transport solutions, we will face major problems in the future. Signals should alert us. Firstly, while CO emissions from new cars decreased between 2009 and 2016, they have been rising again over the last five years, mainly due to SUVs, which account for 40% of new car sales. These heavy vehicles, which emit 20% more CO than other cars, are the second source, behind aviation, of growth in COen France emissions over the last ten years. Secondly, the conversion premium reduced vehicle emissions by only 7 grams of CO per kilometre between 2019 and 2020. A sustainable mobility premium must therefore be introduced, which would encourage the choice of public transport, car sharing and carpooling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u236	Amendment No 1623 by Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u237	I call Mr Gomès to support Amendment No. 2291.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u238	It aims to enable New Caledonia to benefit from the "Advenir" system, which was established in 2016 to support the deployment of charging infrastructure for electric and hybrid vehicles. At the time of the presentation of the recovery plan for the French automotive sector, the President of the Republic announced that a new €100 million envelope would be allocated to this mechanism, with the ambitious objective of installing 100,000 charging points in the next few years throughout the national territory. In New Caledonia, motor vehicles emit 15 per cent of greenhouse gases, making it the second largest source of pollution after metallurgical plants. That is why I have tabled this amendment, the aim of which is to draw the attention of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u240	The Advenir system, which supports the deployment of charging infrastructures, is unfortunately financed by energy saving certificates. I have regretted enough, C2E are non-budgetary tools, so you cannot support their development with specific appropriations. The opinion can only be unfavourable, even if I am in favour of the principle of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u241	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor to support Amendment No. 2112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u242	Its objective is to make low-emission areas more inclusive and serve a daily ecology. I want to put three points forward. First of all, I support the ZFE, which our majority have included in the law for the benefit of our environment and air quality, in Strasbourg and elsewhere. Adapting our mobility to the challenge of ecological transition is a collective necessity, and we welcome the efforts made for soft mobility with the conversion bonus and support for public transport. However, these solutions do not always seem to be suitable for our fellow citizens whose mobility is fragile. The amendment proposes to carry out an experiment inspired by the one conducted in Ghent, identified in the work of our colleagues Camille Galliard-Minier and Valérie Beauvais on the ZFE in Europe. Taxis must of course be involved in everyday mobilities, helping them to acquire vehicles with low greenhouse gas emissions, here in return for the development of services dedicated to people over 65 years of age. This is the subject of the €2000 premium for taxi craftsmen, which complements the existing aid. With this measure, we would allow our seniors who live in and around the metropolises to return to the heart of the city thanks to artisan taxis who serve their mobility. Finally, I would like to call for action: Strasbourg is not the only one to express itself, there is also Lyon, Annecy, Grenoble, Nantes, Rouen and their surrounding area, as the colleagues in these territories who co-signed the amendment attest. Our proposal can, of course, be further developed, with, for example, help for the most modest seniors in the form of a mobility check "solidary taxis". We have time, before the new reading of the PLF in the middle of December, to work on it. The amendment is above all a call to do more for ZFEs for all, in order to promote an ecology of everyday life that will win everyone's support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u244	The committee did not consider the amendment; In my personal capacity, I give a wisdom opinion. While regional councils did carry out such policies, it was up to the Government to decide whether to make them a national policy. I must say that I do not share your optimism about the ZFEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u246	Taxis are eligible, as legal persons, for the ecological bonus and the conversion premium for the acquisition of a rechargeable electric or hybrid vehicle. The conversion premium is increased in the EFAs when a territorial authority grants the same aid of EUR 1000 as the State. Taxis already have the tools to invest in a new vehicle. The professionals I talked to know how to use these instruments and are rather satisfied with them. I invite you to withdraw the amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u247	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u248	Madam Minister, Mr Special Rapporteur, thank you for your explanation. It is a question of how we can develop these mechanisms throughout the country. We must reflect on the development of a service dedicated to our most fragile citizens, so that they can benefit from these mobilitys. In the meantime, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u249	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2245.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u250	As you know, air pollution is one of the major environmental risks to our health. Approved air quality monitoring associations (AASQA) play the essential role of regulatory oversight of pollutant concentrations, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week; Their work allows us to develop policies aimed at improving air quality, such as mobility EFAs whose purpose is not to exclude people but pollutants, does not dislike the Special Rapporteur. Funding for AASQA is provided by state and local government grants, as well as by TGAP-Air's liberating donations – the general tax on polluting activities related to air pollution – from industrialists. AASQAs have increasing financial needs as they face the need to upgrade regulatory oversight while making investments to identify pollutants not included in regulatory oversight. The amendment therefore aims to increase the State's financial support to the AASQA by EUR 10 million, which corresponds to the needs calculated by the Fédération Atmo France, which brings together all these associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u252	When vehicles are excluded, the persons occupying them are excluded. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u254	The level of subsidies paid by the State to the AASQA will be €23 million in 2022, or more than 6 million more than the budget before the crisis of the covid -19, which represents an increase of 35%. These additional funding must address the natural erosion of TGAP-Air, consolidate and sustain work on emerging and non-regulatory pollutants, strengthen French expertise, increase our country's influence in European standardisation bodies and strengthen France's position in future litigation and negotiations on the revision of the European Air Quality Directive. The amount of EUR 1 million paid to AASQAs following the decision of the Council of State in the first half of 2021 was not included in the budget. This budget must be used for complementary actions, so you understand that an exceptional grant in addition to the additional funding already provided does not appear necessary. That is why I propose that you withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u255	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u256	I recognize that funds have been allocated following the decision of the Council of State this summer, except that they do not benefit all the AASQAs but some of them. It should also be borne in mind that other measures, particularly those relating to pesticides, will need to be made available. I withdraw the amendment, but the situation of the AASQA needs to be studied very precisely in order to avoid encountering problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u257	I shall take up the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u258	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 1040.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u259	It aims to cancel the EUR 180 million reduction in the appropriations of the FPNM. This is a very large decrease which sends a very bad signal at a time when the state should invest massively in supporting climate change adaptation projects carried out by all local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u261	The committee did not consider the amendment. The appropriations of the FPRNM, known as the Barnier funds, were completely budgeted last year. The reform increased the EAs to EUR 415 million in the BIA by 2021, but EUR 160 million of this envelope was in the form of previous commitments from the Fund; In addition, an expenditure of EUR 50 million was planned to deal with the aftermath of storm Alex. That's why the credits were so high in 2021. I understand your concern, but the budget line of the FPNM, which amounts to EUR 235 million in the PLF, seems sufficient compared to the expenditure actually made in previous years. I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u263	I agree with the Special Rapporteur that there is no real decline, simply the end of the transitional measures following the budgeting of the Barnier Fund. The resources of €235 million will cover all risk prevention actions already undertaken or to come from the communities. I therefore express an opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u264	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u265	I will support the amendment because local and regional authorities face serious problems of multi-annual funding of adaptation work. The expertise is time-consuming and costly, and this brings us back to the question of our country's capacity for adaptation expertise. In addition, there are many examples of difficulties in effectively committing funds on the ground. I am thinking in particular of the development of a river passing through the valley of the Austreberthe or of the construction of a coastal line. All this strongly encourages me, as I said in my opening speech, to support our colleague's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u266	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1065 and 1066, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u267	Like the previous ones, these amendments are very related to what we know in our territories. More than two years after the Lubrizol accident and while the Government had promised a 50 per cent increase in the number of inspections of facilities classified by the end of the quinquennium – we are getting there – the trade unions in the sectors concerned denounce a reduction in the time spent on each inspection and a deterioration in the working conditions of the inspectors. In Normandy, trade unions have also criticized the recent announcement of a project to abolish jobs within the DREAL. However, as the national union of industrial and mining engineers pointed out in a press release issued on 11 October, the promised increase in the number of staff following the Lubrizol accident must be followed up and should remain in effect, which is not the case to date. Amendment No 1065 therefore aims to allocate an additional EUR 35 million, and the fall amendment No 106610 million, to carry out expertise and quality checks on classified installations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u269	The committee has not considered these amendments, which I am very much in favour of personally. I will explain why when I present my next amendment, almost identical to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u271	It is against both Mr Leseul's amendments and yours to come, Mr Special Rapporteur. On 18 October I presented the action plan. All resilient to the risks, which follows on from my commitment in September 2020 to hire thirty new inspectors of facilities classified in 2021 and twenty others in 2022, this finance bill concretizing this announcement. With these reinforcements to increase on-site controls by 50% compared to 2018, your amendments are already satisfied: abunding the 217 programme for this purpose is not necessary. With respect to Normandy, I have had the opportunity to respond in detail to honourable senators on this subject at a hearing. If you wish, I will give you my answer – which is a little long – but, in essence, I explained that it was a question of display and not real means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u272	I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2191.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u273	It is an amendment that is very important, especially after what you have just said, Madam Minister, because I do not think thirty positions are sufficient. Indeed, when I began to be Special Rapporteur for this mission, during the 2018 PLF – that is, before the Lubrizol accident and the fire at the Achères treatment plant – the Director General of Risk Prevention explained to us that 200 posts were missing to ensure even the proper inspection missions of the classified facilities. In this regard, I would point out that an inspector supervises an average of 420 different sites. So, in order to ensure a proper inspection of the classified sites and to take account of the events mentioned above, I propose, by this amendment which was not adopted by the Finance Committee, the hiring of 200 FTEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u274	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u275	This excellent amendment by our colleague Véronique Riotton aims to secure the will of the legislator with regard to the AGEC law – the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy – which provides for a minimum of 20% of the estimated cost of repairing certain products. While a new decree revised the amount of this support to 10%, we believe that this is a very bad signal sent to the consumer, even though the objective of this measure is to increase the financial accessibility of reparation for individuals. Indeed, 20% of the cost of repair does not already allow to pass below the 33 % threshold of the new price of the product, identified by ADEME as the trigger of the decision to repair. The amendment is therefore intended to provide an additional EUR 120 million for the Programme for Risk Prevention of the Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility mission of the PLF by 2022, so that we have sufficient funds to reach this rate of 20%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u277	The committee has not considered this amendment, which I am very much in favour of personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u278	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u279	Promulgated in February 2020, the AGEC Act provides for the setting up of funds to cover part of the cost of repairing products in the extended-responsibility sectors of the producer, the repairs to be made to the repairers labeled, without legal and commercial guarantee. We have already had this debate, but I am quite prepared to have it again: you are afraid that the 20% rate of consumer compensation will not be respected because of an abundance of funds from eco-organisms and, consequently, you would like to compensate for the shortfall in the allocation of EUR 120 million of additional appropriations to the 181 programme. I would point out that the 10% rate fixed by the generic decree, valid for all the REP sectors, is only a floor. It is the definition of funding arrangements by each eco-organization that, in fact, meets the objective set out in the AGEC Act. For example, with regard to the electrical and electronic equipment sector, the annual amount of EUR 70 million foreseen by the AGEC law, which we thought was fair, has proved to be insufficient. That is why we corrected it to EUR 102 million. In the decree of 27 October 2021 to which you are referring, we therefore went further than what you had voted in the AGEC law, by increasing by almost 50% the amount to be allocated by this sector, in order to take account of the new ADEME studies. The intention of the legislator is therefore respected: I repeat, the amounts are higher than what you voted – and I too – in the context of the AGEC Act. In addition, the eco-organizations will soon have to propose the modalities for the use of the funds, particularly with regard to the targeted products for the financing of the repairs, with financial contributions that may exceed 20 per cent of the cost of the repair. Finally, I would point out that, from a formal point of view, the principle of an envelope within the State budget for the possible abundance of the repair and re-employment funds is not appropriate because, I would point out, they are financed by the contributions of producers through the eco-organisations. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, but while insisting again on the fact that the intention of the legislator when voting on the AGEC Act is more than respected, since the State goes beyond what was originally intended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u281	I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2190.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u282	It aims to allocate 110 million euros of additional appropriations to Action 12 Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME) of Programme 181, while hoping that the Government will lift the pledge on which the amendment is based. ADEME is now being asked to pilot many of the credit lines of the recovery plan, such as those relating to energy renovation of buildings, hydrogen, decarbonisation of industry, or the circular economy. In total, the Agency estimates the additional appropriations from its recovery plan to be EUR 1.8 billion, including EUR 800 million in 2021. However, despite the professionalism of the ADEME staff, it is clear that the objectives set will not be achieved in the absence of additional investments, particularly for the Heat Fund: 100 of the EUR 110 million that the amendment proposes to allocate to ADEME could be devoted to this. Moreover, if your memory is good, the management of the recovery plan should lead to an increase in the ADEME's workforce, in a contractual and time-limited manner. For the sake of efficiency, the Agency had requested that these hirings take place within the framework of project CDI, although 120 interims were recruited. However, in the absence of sufficient funds to pay them, they will have left their posts by the summer of 2022 and will therefore not be able to continue to monitor these investments, which are often very important industrial issues. In order to address ADEME's concerns, 10 of the EUR 110 million allocated to ADEME could be used to extend these 120 contracts. The committee gave an unfavourable opinion on this amendment. For my part, I will give a favourable opinion in my personal capacity on Amendments Nos 1902 and 1909 which we shall be discussing in a moment: they concern the same subject and have not been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u283	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1902 and 1909, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u284	They both aim to strengthen the ADEME's resources. Amendment No 1902 seeks to strengthen funding for ecological transition projects led by local and regional authorities, because we need them to move forward. These projects, of which I will spare you the list, are numerous and range from investments in natural spaces to agroforestry operations, and thermal renovation of buildings. Amendment No 1909, which is complementary, is intended to provide additional funding to ADEME to train local and regional authorities in the design and application of green budgets, i.e. that take account of climate impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u286	I am personally in favour of both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u287	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1742 and 1910. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1742.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u288	This amendment by my colleague Nathalie Bassire aims to abound the ADEME's appropriations, in order to offer new training to territorial agents, on which we rely a great deal to implement certain measures, such as the Climate Plan. A total of 707 communities have so far engaged in this arrangement, but it is common for territorial officers to find it difficult to assume its technical component. It is therefore important, as my colleague supports, to give ADEME the means to train them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u289	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 1910.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u290	It does indeed seem to us very important to assist local authorities in the construction of their green budgets. This is a modest proposal, amounting to EUR 1 million, but I believe it must be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u291	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u292	They are in line with the amendment that I defended earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u294	Unfavorable notice: it is at the CNFPT – National Centre of the Territorial Public Service – to provide training to community officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u295	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1028.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u296	It aims to increase the funds allocated to the National Forestry Office, with the aim, among other things, of maintaining its staff in the face of climate challenges, as well as to respond to the structural crisis which it is undergoing and which is sustained by a chronic under-investment, which is denounced by the Court of Auditors. Substantial investments must be made and the retention of staff must be ensured. Minister, there is a decline in the number of NFB officers on the ground, and the support they provided to communities is now totally inadequate, even though they are embarking on logging or shredded wood production projects. As a result, communities clearly need support, but the NFB no longer has the means to provide it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u298	The weakening of the NFB is indeed a major problem. This situation continued in 2021, with the Agency's deficit approaching EUR 50 million at the end of the year and its debt of EUR 450 million. As you recalled, the PLF for 2022 also provides for ninety-five new job deletions, recognizing that the NFB's workforce should be reduced by a total of 475 jobs over the next five years. This is a dramatic constraint on the establishment, which no longer manages to carry out its essential tasks, including the monitoring of the good health of forests. I am therefore personally in favour of this amendment, which has not been discussed by the committee, and of Amendment No 2330 which Mathilde Panot will then present and which deals with the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u300	I recall that the Department of Ecological Transition consistently supports the funding of the NFB's missions of general interest; This budget is also on the rise this year, as part of the new contract made in July 2021 between the State and the NFB for the period 2021-2025. These missions are absolutely essential and their financing will increase by more than €2.5 million each year from 2022 to 2024. I would add that in France, in general, we need to reorganize our forest policy, and that this requirement goes far beyond the NFB's simple case. At this very moment, we are dealing with this issue, both upstream and downstream, within the framework of the Forest and Wood Facilities which opened on 19 October last and bring together all the actors concerned. Such a consultation should allow us to finally carry out an integrated and general policy, instead of operating in a silo. [[Patrice Perrot, draftsman of the opinion, applauds]] I am very attentive to what will happen at these meetings, because we need – I agree with you all on this point – a forest policy that not only addresses the consequences of global warming, because the forest is a carbon sink, but also to ensure that the forest itself is resilient and resilient to these effects. I recall that with the rise of temperatures, the climate will change; We must already anticipate this change, ten or fifteen years before it happens, so that our forest is strong enough and we have a forest sector, downstream, which also allows us to support ourselves, particularly in the area of construction where we favour wood. This is a global problem and the NFB will obviously have a key role to play in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u301	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u302	Madam Minister, you are right: as I said earlier, we share the points you make. However, our views differ with regard to the measures to be taken. You are right: in our country, the sector of the first wood processing goes badly and an incredible number of logs of wood is exported to Asia, so much so that the sawmills of Jura, Burgundy and Franche-Comté have difficulty in supplying themselves locally and can no longer provide for the construction of wooden houses; This slows down the entire production chain. The figures on this subject are, of course, quite contradictory, but, in any event, it is not normal. Then – this is the second point – our forest itself is not going very well, neither is it. Indeed, as you said, global warming increases the risk of disease and the proliferation of pests such as scolytes, which are gaining ground and threatening softwoods. We have to find ways to protect ourselves. What this amendment from our colleagues proposes – we support them, of course – is to increase the NFB's budget by EUR 50 million, which is the only organised structure with the technical capacity to provide an answer to these problems. The sectors, of course, must participate with him, and you are right to encourage cooperation with the sectors; But in this case, the climate emergency imposes this budgetary urgency. We will then be able to organize ourselves in order to help the sectors meet each other's expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u303	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u304	Minister, I fully agree with what you are saying: the expansion of the NFB's missions, particularly those you mentioned, is essential; We fully adhere to it. The problem is that we are continuing to expand the Agency's missions while reducing the number of staff at its disposal, and we are going to reach the limits of the exercise very quickly. I can tell you: there are too few officers on the ground and even if you tell us that budgets are gradually increasing, that is not what we are seeing. There are fewer and fewer agents each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u305	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u306	I would like to take this opportunity to defend the following amendment, which also concerns the National Forestry Office. Minister, job cuts continue at the NFB, although it has already lost almost half of its workforce: while it had 15,000 officers in the mid-1980s, there are only 8,000 today to administer all of our public forests. Such an evolution has very direct consequences, since the average load of an agent has increased from 800 to 1700 hectares of forest – the figures vary from 900 to 4000 hectares depending on the departments. What is the consequence of this policy? Remember, during the review of the PLF for 2021, we had succeeded in having the principle of a moratorium on the decline of the NFB's workforce adopted; But at second reading, the Government had made sure – through a game with the Senate – to reverse this decision. Therefore, the PLF for 2022 again provides for the abolition of 95 posts, and the holding of Assises de la Forêt does not change anything at all. As you said yourself, Minister, we need a public forestry service. We need it first because we are facing enormous suffering; I would like to point out that since 2000, about 50 NFB agents have committed suicide – compared to the workforce, so that everyone understands, it is more than France Télécom. We are losing public expertise at a time when, particularly as a result of climate change, we need people who can observe forests based on accurate knowledge of their plots. Our carbon sinks are shrinking – that's what the High Council for Climate (HCC) points out – and the industrial model of the forest is needed in some places in a very strong way, with razed cuts and monoculture plantations that make forests less resilient to diseases and climate change. What you are telling us should therefore not run counter to the strengthening of the public forestry service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u307	Amendment No 2330 by Mrs Mathilde Panot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u308	I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u309	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 2359.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u310	It aims to support tree planting projects in cities. We all know that trees, especially outside the forest, are helping to combat both climate change, air pollution and the heat islands generated by the phenomenon of concreteization. As part of the recovery plan, the Government has deployed the €50 million Hedge Plants! programme for farmers. We must have the same ambition to promote a large tree planting programme in our cities, in support of local initiatives. For example, Finistère wants to plant 500,000 trees and Vendée, more than 1 million by 2030; As for the city of Nice, it announced the figure of 280,000 trees by 2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u312	I have a number of problems with the amendment. Firstly, although this is not the most important, the vegetation of urban areas is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities. Then, as I said, it seems to me that it is especially the NFB that finds itself in great difficulty. I could, however, give a favourable opinion, but the real problem is that you are winning the amendment on a reduction in the appropriations allocated to the Public Energy Service programme, which is essential in the context of the energy transition. If the Government raises the pledge and only on that condition, I will be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u314	I would like to point out that support for re-naturalisation is not only a matter of financial assistance; In particular, you have just voted on the "climate and resilience" law, which sends a very strong signal to the nation and sets very ambitious goals in this area. Secondly, the planting of trees is necessarily part of the overall planning of the territory. I am currently fighting at COP26 to ensure that commitments to tree planting do not lead to a balance of all accounts – it would then be enough to plant ten trees, for example, for the problem to be considered as solved. From our point of view, therefore, such actions really need to be integrated into a comprehensive policy. Moreover, as the Special Rapporteur has said, they are primarily local initiatives, led by local authorities or private owners; Several forms of financing are already available to planners and allow them to integrate tree planting into their projects. I would like to recall that, as part of France's relaunch, the State has embarked on an unprecedented programme of support for the remobilisation of urban wasteland, which is endowed with 650 million euros and complements that dedicated to the reconstruction of our forests affected by the declines. EUR 300 million is now allocated to support the forest and the wood sector. This effort by the State to support the adaptation of our territories and forests to climate change will be extended: the France 2030 plan, announced by the President of the Republic, will devote 500 million euros to the development of the forest and wood sector. This complements what we have said about the previous amendments. I therefore do not think it appropriate to commit even more to the state budget in this area, at the expense of other equally important actions if we are to control climate change. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u315	Is the amendment retained, Mrs Luquet?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u316	In view of your explanations, I will withdraw it, but you understand that it was an appeal amendment. We will once again have the opportunity to discuss, when considering Bill 3DS – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – how we can protect trees outside the forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u317	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1934.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u318	It aims to create a fund for the compensation of noise from high-speed railway lines, based on the existing funds for Orly and Roissy airports. Its resources could be allocated to the residents of high-speed railway lines, in particular for the financing of insulation and sound protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u320	I do not know how the amount you intend to allocate to this fund has been calculated and I know that Article 40 is binding, but I cannot give a favourable opinion on an amendment that would weaken Météo-France and IGN, unless the Government obviously raises the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u321	I call Mrs Zannier to support Amendment No. 2215.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u322	This is a subject that you are very interested in, Madam Minister, I know very well, since it concerns former minors once again. My colleague Thibault Bazin and I recently conducted a fact-finding mission on the social security system for mines; In this context, we have conducted numerous hearings at all levels – trade unions as well as directorates-general – and gathered numerous testimonies. Former miners are very concerned for their future and for the preservation of their rights, especially since a COG – agreement of objectives and management – which concluded after our report, announced the end of the CANSSM – Caisse autonome nationale de sécurité sociale dans les mines ; This was very badly received by the unions, who felt that they had been excluded from the reflection. The amendment, which proposes to increase the budget of the National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors by EUR 20 million, would allow the latter to carry out innovative actions, for example in favour of keeping elderly people at home, but also to create a one-stop shop for minors, who are totally deprived of the multitude of existing mechanisms and no longer know where to go for information. Such a request does not, of course, come from the Directorates-General or members of the COG; It comes from the trade unions and the miners themselves, whose testimonies we have gathered. I suspect that the amendment will not be adopted, but it is about the fourth time – I am very stubborn – that I am trying to obtain additional resources for minors; So I end up controlling some of the arguments on this subject. [[Minister smiles]] While there is a terrible rumor about the future of the rights of former minors, could you at least reassure all those who have addressed me, including mayors, and guarantee the preservation of these rights – in case you give an unfavorable opinion to the 20 million proposed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u324	Favourable opinion. I very much hope that the Government will reassure us on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u326	I will of course try to reassure the honourable Member and the Special Rapporteur. The Government is very committed - and I myself am personally - to guaranteeing the rights of minors. It is always appropriate – we have already discussed this – to distinguish between the benefits that are paid under the programme 174 Energy, climate and after-mines – heating, housing and early retirement benefits – and those that are financed by the draft law on the financing of social security (PLFSS), which are extralegal aids for health and social action. The decrease in the budget of the ANGDM, which falls under programme 174, is consistent in view of the decrease in the number of beneficiaries; This is in the order of 6% per year, which is expected to increase the number of awardees from 90000 in 2021 to about 84000 in 2022. To really reassure your interlocutors, I would add that it is not correct to say that the care of former minors is at risk. Unlike the rest of the population, former minors, their spouses and children under the age of 18 are entitled to 100 per cent of their care. With regard to the disputes, which you have also mentioned, they are also dealt with directly by the State, since the liquidation of Charbonnages de France ended at the end of 2018. They relate mainly to cases of recognition of occupational diseases and inexcusable faults of the employer, for example in cases of asbestos exposure, as well as those relating to the injury of anxiety. In 2021, EUR 11 million was allocated to this expenditure, which is directly borne by programme 174. So you can really reassure your interlocutors: the rumors they have heard are rumours that have no basis, and no reduction of rights is envisaged. I propose that you withdraw your amendment, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable; But I hope everyone is well reassured on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u327	Mrs Zannier, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u328	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u329	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u330	I am delighted that our colleague is maintaining this amendment, which the Socialist and related groups naturally support. You have reassured us as to the maintenance of the benefits of the miners, Madam Minister, but what about the future of the works of the mining regime? Many juvenile health centres do not fall under the general scheme. Many are expected to be built soon, but there are serious concerns about their financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u331	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u332	The forecast cash flow of the National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors is a matter of concern: by the end of 2021 it is expected to be between 8 and 9 million euros, i.e. a maximum of 10 reserve days. Such a situation, I believe, justifies the abundance of the ANGDM's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u333	I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2320.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u334	I am particularly interested in this amendment, which is a kind of conclusion to the five reports I have prepared this year on ecology policy and risk prevention. It denounces the continuous weakening, during the quinquennium, of the Ministry of the Ecological Transition and its operators, who nevertheless play an essential role. In the finance bill for 2022, 347 posts are abolished for the entire mission Sustainable ecology, development and mobility and 270 posts for the ministry and its operators alone. In the past year, 947 full-time equivalents have been eliminated, and more than 5000 over the past five years. A total of 15% of the posts will have been abolished under Emmanuel Macron's presidency. You are not entirely responsible for this situation, Madam Minister, because you have taken up your quinquennium duties, but you still have a responsibility. The Syndicat national de l'environnement (SNE) denounces "a dismantling of the ministerial pole of the ecological transition". As a result of these downsizings, the ministry and several operators are now limited to the role of windows for private actors, and are unable even to control the destination and use of the funds they distribute. With this amendment, I therefore ask, at a minimum, that the 347 posts that are to be abolished in the 2022 Finance Bill be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u335	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 2028.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u336	In line with what the Special Rapporteur has just said, we wish, through this amendment, to alert the Assembly and the Government to the decline in the resources allocated to the regional State departments responsible for sustainable development policies and to call for new means to be allocated to them. The communities' preferred interlocutors, i.e., DREAL, DIRM and DIRs, are seeing a decline in their overall resources. The 2022 Finance Bill provides for a downsizing of 249 FTEs. This decline seems entirely illegitimate to us. We therefore call for a budgetary reallocation in order to maintain these jobs at the service of local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u338	I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u339	I call Mrs Zannier to support Amendment No. 1476.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u340	This amendment, tabled on the initiative of my colleague Loïc Dombreval, deals once again with a subject that is of great interest to you, Minister: the preservation of wildlife. On 1 April 2021, France had 102 wildlife care centres and only 41 multi-specific care centres – each multi-specific care centre covers an average of 2.5 departments. Only 30% of the budget of these centres comes from public funds – grants and aids – less than €45,000 per year and per centre. These centres support nearly 100,000 animals in distress each year and are essential for the preservation of wildlife. For having visited several of them myself, I would like to point out that the animals that are welcomed there have very often been injured as a result of human activity. Wild animal care centres monitor known or emerging diseases, including serious zoonoses such as rabies or tuberculosis. It is therefore essential to maintain their functioning. In order to function properly, these centres must find 20 million per year. They estimate that they will be able to raise 7 million by themselves. So you can easily guess: the amendment asks the state to abound by 13 million action 07 Management of the environment and biodiversity of the 113 Landscapes, water and biodiversity programme in the 2022 finance bill. If this amendment were not to be adopted, could you at least tell us, Madam Minister, what measures you are considering in the future to support these centres? A study of their needs with a view to accurately assessing the funds needed to operate them seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u342	The committee did not consider this amendment. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u343	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u344	I thank Mr Dombreval for this amendment and I congratulate all those who, together with him, participated in the drafting of the bill to combat animal abuse and strengthen the link between animals and men. This text should soon be adopted by Parliament, and I welcome it in my personal capacity and on behalf of the Government. It is, in fact, in line with the approach we are defending. The aim of Amendment No 1476 is to ensure the sustainable functioning of wildlife care centres, whose mission is to welcome and treat wild animals in distress with the aim of releasing them into the wild. Their funding is mainly based on volunteerism, donations, sponsorship and sometimes on grants from certain local authorities or DREALs. Their financial situation is indeed fragile because of a precarious financing system. Having been alerted to this financial fragility, which has increased as a result of the health crisis and the decline in patronage and the help of local authorities, we have decided, together with Bérangère Abba, Secretary of State for Biodiversity, to pay exceptional aid this year, to the tune of 5000 euros per centre, regardless of the size of the centre. We also wanted the Ministry of Environmental Transition to define a more structured funding model for these centres. While it is of course useful to support them in the event of difficulties, it is even more useful to help them find a sustainable operating model. The General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development will therefore be asked for a four-month mission to identify the regulatory adjustments necessary for the better functioning of the centres and to propose a sustainable financing system. That's the announcement I wanted to make tonight. It was to intervene in the consideration of an amendment which proposed that the Government should submit a report to Parliament in order to make a precise diagnosis of the functioning of the wildlife care centres and to study possible ways of improving them. As the amendment in question has been found inadmissible, I announce our decision now and I invite you to withdraw Amendment No 1476.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u345	Would you like to withdraw the amendment, Mrs Zannier?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u346	Yeah, I'm taking it off. Thank you for the good news, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u347	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2086.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u348	[[Smile]] I hope that we will also have good news, Madam Minister! The amendment is aimed at alerting the Government to the continuing decline in CEREMA's public service subsidy since 2015 – it is therefore solely attributable to that government. In their report last July, the CGEDD and the General Inspectorate of Administration (IGA) denounce a "financial and budgetary trajectory that is in line with CEREMA's vital prognosis". You know how important this organization is. It's time to react!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u349	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u350	The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am very much in favour of it in my personal capacity. CEREMA deserves to be saved. I shall come back to this matter later when I present Amendment No 2323.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u351	Do you have any other good news to tell us, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u352	Unfortunately, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u353	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u354	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u355	I call Mr Patrice Perrot, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No 1634 of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u356	It is in line with the previous amendment and calls for the transfer of 3 million to action 11 Studies and expertise in sustainable development of programme 159 Expertise, geographic information and meteorology in order to reduce the subsidy for public service charges to its level of 2021 and enable CEREMA to carry out its tasks through the maintenance of its staff. This amendment was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. I hope he will receive the same welcome from the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u357	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u358	The committee has not considered the amendment, but I am in favour of it personally. The information report on the proliferation of invasive plants and the means to stem this situation, drawn up by Nadia Essayan and Patrice Perrot on behalf of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, is very interesting. It is fair to note that additional staff will be required to implement its recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u360	Amendment No 1634 and the following relate to CEREMA. I will therefore give them a comprehensive answer. The resources allocated to CEREMA are consistent with the establishment's development project, CEREM'Avenir. The quality of this project is excellent and has led the State to allocate to it additional funding of 12.3 million over four years, from 2019 to 2022, under the Public Action Transformation Fund (PATF). CEREMA also benefited from the Interdepartmental Human Resources Support Fund (FAIRH) of 2.3 million for 2020 and 2021. As a sign of recognition of the value of its expertise, CEREMA has been identified as one of the key operators for the implementation of the recovery plan. In this context, it receives more than 45 million to implement certain measures. In order to best accompany the establishment in its transformation, the Government made the choice, as early as the 2021 Finance Bill, of a reduction in the employment pattern of 10 FTEs from the one originally planned. In this finance bill, CEREMA's employment pattern is significantly reduced, from 40 FTEs to 100 FTEs in previous years, a difference of 60 FTEs. While this is not the panacea, the Government has taken into account the role of CEREMA in the recovery plan. For all these reasons, we believe that the 2022 finance bill provides CEREMA with human and financial resources adapted to its tasks. Unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 1634 and the following with the same object.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u361	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u362	I understand your argument, minister: minus 40 FTEs, it's better than minus 100 FTEs in previous years! However, almost 400 posts have been abolished at CEREMA since the beginning of the quinquennium, while its missions have continued to grow. CEREMA's public expertise is absolutely essential. We have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions in recent years, in the context of the examination of finance bills, when we referred to the difficulties encountered by CEREMA, due to insufficient staffing, in its role of accompanying the State and local authorities. CEREMA experts told us that one community once asked them if a bridge would collapse, which a private company had claimed. Without CEREMA, this bridge – a work of art – would have been destroyed and rebuilt by the company. The more the public expertise of indispensable actors is given up, the more the private sector benefits, which is extremely serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u363	The next speaker is Mr. Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u364	CEREMA is dying. You choose to continue to remove jobs, while even the new director you appointed a few years ago says that if we continue along this path, it will be over. Be aware of what you're doing. CEREMA is asked to seek equity while reducing its staff, which is absolutely contradictory. And too much private equity would undermine the independence of its expertise and planning tools. The first time I defended CEREMA, Sébastien Lecornu, then minister responsible for local and regional authorities, told me on the sidelines of the meeting that CEREMA was absolutely essential but that its continued existence as a public operator could pose a question. That's the reality: you're making a public operator disappear, and we won't be able to act as if we didn't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u365	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u366	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 1031.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u367	We have heard the minister, but it is not reasonable to continue the downsizing. As Mr Coquerel has just said, it is obvious that we are killing CEREMA, and all the experts on the issue have acknowledged it. You're proposing to put a little bandage on him, but we have to stop the bleeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u369	Personally, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u370	Amendment No 2323 by Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u371	Amendment No 2186 by Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u372	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-05-O1049.u373	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Continued review of mission appropriations Sustainable ecology, development and mobility. The meeting is adjourned.
