ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects (No. 3875, 3995). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the 45-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u2	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u3	In the face of the climate emergency, the goal is as simple as the path is complex. We all know where to go: towards the end of the civilization of fossil energies, the end of a civilization that rejects billions of tons of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere every year, the end of a civilization that deregulates the climate and makes our summers heat waves, floods of our rivers, deadly cataclysms, and our forests fiery. It was enough to go to the Roya valley in the autumn, devastated by a flood as in the aftermath of a bombardment, to realize that we have already waited too long. What we don't know, here and around the world, is how to get there. For it is precisely a question of changing civilisation, of touching at the heart of our economy, of our society, but also of our ways of life. There is no manual for such a transformation. There is no manual to transform a scientific observation, however massive it may be, into a global policy, an action plan that ends up permeating the social reality in our businesses, our municipalities, our homes. Yet, because it is simply a matter of guaranteeing a future for ourselves and our children, we are working with humility, with hope and with heart, for the society to which we aspire is everything but a world of deprivation, everything but a return. On the contrary, it is a world of freedom, a world free from our dependence on fossil fuels, free from irrespirable air, free from overconsumption, free from junk food, free from an economic logic that considers environmental externalities to be negligible, a world that does not measure its success only by means of an indicator, GDP, which does not take into account the physical limits of our planet. The objective is clear, but the only plan that exists to achieve it is theoretical and no government has implemented it: we seek to chart our own path, to overcome obstacles, to move forward, even when we are told that it is impossible, or that this is not the time, a path that allows us to arrive at a proper port, and to achieve it together. In my view, the ecological transition can only be ambitious and unifying. The transition to which I believe refuses any brutality in the method and aims to make nation around a protective and emancipatory project. It was this unifying spirit that animated the President of the Republic when he decided to install the Citizen's Convention for the Climate. For seventeen months, 150 citizens, including employees, farmers, pensioners, high school students, nurses and doctors, teachers, business leaders and even advertisers and line pilots, were confronted with scientific facts. Thus, 150 citizens came to lend their direct assistance to the life of the city, in what it has most noble, more sincere: to assimilate a complex problem, to debate, to propose. We can collectively be proud of these 150 citizens: their democratic and ecological heritage is considerable. For yes, ladies and gentlemen, this unprecedented democratic exercise today has its full meaning here with you: after the time of the citizens, this is the time of the elected representatives of the nation. [[Applause on some ofthe banksoftheLaRegroup and on severalofthebanksoftheDemgroup]] I am extremely committed to this time of Parliament, because it is that of representative democracy, that of debates in the open and votes that cast hopes in the marble of the law. Thus, together we will respond to the call of the Citizens' Convention, which we will go from 150 French and French to 577 today, and to 67 million tomorrow. The text I present to you today is an important new stone to the building of the ecological Republic which we want to build, and which is not a vain word, because ecology is a term derived from the Greek "oikos", the "home", the "heritage": it is a matter of learning to manage together our common heritage, a house of which we are simple subjects, deeply dependent on the services that nature renders us. [[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] As Pope Francis' encyclical "Laudato si'" recalls, when one refers to the environment, one refers in particular to a relationship: that which exists between nature and the society that inhabits it. This prevents us from considering nature as separate from us or as a mere frame of our life. We are included in it, we are part of it and we are entangled with it. This extraordinary heritage, we have already vastly dilapidated, in a few decades, when our planet took millions of years to build it. As I speak to you, three quarters of our planet have been significantly altered by human action; soil degradation has reduced the productivity of the global land surface by a quarter; urban areas have more than doubled in 30 years; plastic pollution has increased tenfold in 40 years, causing irremediable damage to the ocean, the rivers and the ecosystems they harbour. I can't resign myself to this legacy. We cannot resign ourselves to the fact that our generation is still that of inaction, that of the renunciations dictated by short-termism. In the face of history, we will have no excuse, because we knew. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to take on our responsibilities, to put ourselves in a new temporality, that of urgency. This is the ambition of the text that I have the honour to present to you, even if many will debate the pace we choose, to say that it is too fast or too slow. This is the whole issue of the text that I present to you today: to draw France from 2030, without leaving anyone at the edge of the road; define a practical ecology, a proper balance between the constraint, which allows to give the impulse, and the accompaniment, which allows everyone to fit into the change. This is a bill of common sense, quite simply. Because everything starts with school, it will bring ecology into this pillar of the Republic, to train and educate future citizens on the challenges of the planet. Because it is necessary to break with the negative consequences of consumerism, this bill will transform advertising and allow every citizen to make more virtuous consumer choices through environmental labelling on all products and services sold to them. Because even today, at least 48,000 people die every year because of air pollution, especially as a result of car congestion, the bill creates low-emission zones in all major cities in France, in order to put an end to the traffic of the most polluting vehicles. Because it is absurd to take the plane when the same journey can be made in two hours and thirty minutes by train, the text limits the number of domestic flights. Because 20,000 hectares of nature can no longer be allowed to disappear under concrete each year, it puts an end to the construction of shopping centres in the middle of the fields and halves the rate of artificialisation of the soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u4	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u5	Because nearly 2 million homes can no longer be allowed to live in thermal colanders, fall ill in winter, suffocate in summer and pay exorbitant bills, we forbid the hiring of them, to force owners to carry out quality renovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u7	On this crucial subject, while the construction sector accounts for a quarter of the total emissions, I hope that together we will go further. Because the deliberate destruction of nature can no longer be tolerated, the future law will give us the means to severely punish those who harm the environment. The bill represents a veritable global cultural shift, which will make ecology a reality of everyday life. Such a struggle goes beyond this single text, however strong it may be, because no law alone can lead to the systemic transformation of our country. Since the first day, we have acted: to make decisions that no one had dared to make, by putting an end to major dated projects, such as Notre-Dame-des-Landes, EuropaCity, the Montagne d'Or...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u8	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u9	... or Terminal 4 at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle; to mobilise the means without which the objectives are only paper, with a historic green recovery plan, EUR 30 billion of investments to decarbonize our economy; to bring our ambitions to the international level and in Europe; to reach historic agreements, which are historic; to strengthen the European carbon market and align our trading partners with the same level of environmental requirements. And the other countries are watching us. The experience of the Citizen Climate Convention inspires. The United Kingdom has launched a similar initiative; Germany and Spain are preparing to do so. We have leadership in this fight that we cannot lose. Yes, the bill is a new stone to the building that we are building, to ensure the future of the country in responsibility, by working on what is more ordinary, more basic, but also more crucial: our ways of life. This is the ecology that I believe in and for which I am fighting: an ecology that brings simple solutions in the daily life of the French, an ecology that puts common sense in our lives, that fights against everything we see as aberrant and idiot, in a system that can no longer continue as before. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] The text is now in front of you. It is a chance to have a legacy that we can all be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen, I was rereading yesterday, before coming before you, a few words from a great Frenchman, a great writer, a great Member of Parliament, who gave honour to his country and to this House: Aimé Césaire. From colonial society, he said that "a civilization that proves to be incapable of solving the problems caused by its functioning is a decadent civilization. A civilization that chooses to close its eyes to its most crucial problems is an affected civilization." These words always resonate, again, with strength and talent. They call upon us to demand ourselves, to our society, to act to transform it, for us, for our children, for our planet. This is my determination, and I know how to count on yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u10	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, rapporteur-general of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u11	Today we face a historic responsibility: to succeed in the ecological transition. It is a duty, an obligation that we have to our planet and to future generations. In this regard, I welcome the tens of thousands of young people in France and around the world who are mobilizing for this cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u12	What about the younger ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u13	The emergency, we're here. Global warming is very real. If man – the whole of humanity – were to consume as much as Europeans, it would take 2.8 planets earth to support us. The bill the Government has just summarized to us is a piece of general mobilization. Our country is committed to dividing its greenhouse gas emissions by six, compared to 1990, with a target of 40 per cent reduction in 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. The debates in the special committee were long – ninety-six hours, for eleven consecutive days. I note the involvement and seriousness of the Members of all the political groups, who have honoured our Parliament. I would also like to commend the thematic rapporteurs, who have both enriched the text and responded to the many interventions made by their colleagues. It is 7250 amendments that were tabled on the bill prior to its consideration in the House, proof that the subject is passionate. We'll have a big debate, and that's so much better. I could blame our colleagues sitting on the right for their hundreds of deletion amendments, showing a propensity to make the ostrich, to refuse the changes. "Ecology, yes, but not for me. I won't do it. I could also blame our left-wing colleagues for the brutality of some of their proposals, which would put entire sections of our economy at risk and create irreparable breakouts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u14	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u15	So how do we do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u16	I will not, because these contradictions go through our society. How can we reconcile the urgent need for change with our desire to preserve our jobs, our standard of living, our social model? This is the ambition of this law and its balance. We want to embody an ecology of progress by involving all our fellow citizens, the state, our local and regional authorities, our businesses, in short, all our forces, in a vast movement of transformation towards a more resilient, fairer and more supportive ecological society. This bill is part of a cycle begun in 2017 by our majority, which placed the environment at the heart of its action. The laws on housing, transport, food, circular economy and the law on energy and climate all had an ecological vision, which is reflected in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u17	Fabulous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u18	The consideration of ecology thus gradually extends to growing parts of our society. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As the Citizens' Convention has called for, the bill acts on multiple levers and will transform the lives of 68 million French and French. Mode of consumption, advertising, taking into account renewable energies on a territorial scale, greening of our public order, public transport and cycling, extension of low-emission zones, fight against the artificialisation of soils and thermal colanders, accelerated shift towards agroecology and a healthy and balanced diet, increased repression in case of damage to the environment... When we know the political stakes, the huge sums to invest and the complexity of all these subjects, we measure the ambition of the text. By being the first country in Europe to include some of these measures in the law, France is positioning itself as one of the world's leaders in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u19	One of the leaders of the galaxy, as long as you're there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u20	However, while many here share the same goals, we often diverge on the way forward. We are not in favour of an ecology of decay, a brutal ecology, an ecology that would endanger our automotive and aeronautical industries and our agriculture. Yes, we need to transform our economic model,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u22	... but the solution happens with companies, not against them or in incantation. Let us not forget that economic growth will finance the ecological transition. We are not for a punitive ecology, which would explain to the French what they should consume, where and when. We are for a pragmatic and popular ecology, based on pedagogy and trust. I fully adhere to the philosophy of this bill, which gives a trajectory, deadlines, means, and the bet of collective intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u23	How beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u24	The solution to the ecological crisis lies in multiple tools that combine – technological innovation, renewable energy, green finance, reasonable consumption, circular economy – but these tools are nothing if we fail to create awareness, a movement that unites national and local elected officials, trade unions, the various components of what we call civil society. Because the bill is of crucial importance, we wanted, together with the chair of the special commission Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie and other Members of Parliament, a specific title dedicated to the governance of the text and the monitoring of its implementation and impact. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] It is an honour for me and for the majority of us to support this bill, which is one of the greatest challenges in our history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u25	Mrs Aurore Bergé, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u26	The Citizen's Convention for Climate Change comes from a fundamental question: how, after the anger aroused by the carbon tax and the urgency of climate change, can the French be involved in the decisions that affect them and affect them directly? It was this question that the members of the Citizens' Convention tried to answer. Our challenge here is to reconcile several visions. Reconciling deliberative democracy with representative democracy, first. We say our democracy is tired, we see a widely eroded confidence. It is therefore inconceivable to give a feeling of competition between these two legitimate democratic processes. Reconcil to reject any ideological vision, then. Ecology is not a dogma. She's an emergency, a necessity. It is not by removing the word "growth" from school textbooks that we will fight climate change, but by providing us with effective tools for measuring, monitoring and, where appropriate, constraints, and by empowering the French to be fully involved in ecology. No one will gain from nurturing distrust of our businesses, TPEs, SMEs and farmers. They are and must be allies of the ecological transition. Reconciling, finally, so as not to undermine our ecological ambition, namely the respect of the carbon trajectory that we have set ourselves. This bill is an essential piece of legislation. Title I will trigger several virtuous revolutions in our way of consuming, the prerequisite for these profound changes being better information for consumers, because we are both citizens and consumers. In the special committee, this title has been largely reworked: we have clarified, clarified, enriched and made normative several programmatic provisions. We have adopted more than fifty amendments from the majority as oppositions. On environmental, or environmental and social signage, we have provided essential complements, in particular to ensure that the externalities of the agricultural world are fully taken into account. We will go further in the transparency of data and opendata. As you said, Madam Minister, section 2 includes environmental and sustainable development education in the cross-cutting missions of the public education service. We will propose to extend this field to higher education. We have rewritten Article 3 to give a wider scope to health education committees, citizenship and, from now on, the environment. Advertising has an essential prescribing role to play. It is also an essential lever for financing information, the pluralism of our media and audiovisual and film creation. Article 4 makes a paradigm shift by banning for the first time advertising for the sale of fossil fuels, which are directly responsible for climate change. Which other country is implementing such a measure? Because the penalties must not be less than the profits that would result from illegal advertising, I hope that the amount of those penalties can reach the total expenditure on the illegal operation. Beyond fossil fuels alone, we aim to reduce audiovisual advertising for products and services that will have a negative impact on the climate. We need to go even further in the transparency and control of the commitments made to you, Minister, advertisers and the media, with an annual, measured and made public assessment. I will also propose extending codes of conduct to include partnerships between advertisers and influencers on video sharing platforms, which are often beyond the scope of current regulations. As I committed myself to this during the examination of the text in the Special Committee, I tabled amendments to strengthen the fight against environmental money laundering. We must resolutely combat deceptive business practices in environmental matters. We will also go further in the transfer of powers to mayors, who are the first actors in our territories. We will also frame advertisements and signs located inside our shop windows, but in connection with their property rights and freedom. That is why we have limited ourselves to reducing light pollution. We have reviewed the scope of Article 8, so that it is directly normative, and therefore prohibits advertising aircraft. As for Article 9, which proposes to experiment with the "yes advertising" scheme, we have again chosen to give communities freedom to provide exemptions. Article 10 will prohibit the free distribution of samples to limit waste. Finally, the Special Commission completely rewritten Articles 11 and 12, which raised concerns in certain sectors. It was legitimate to listen to them and to stay in line with what we voted for ourselves recently in the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy. The fight against climate change is a collective issue that goes beyond us and must be done – as you said, Mr General – not against, but with companies, industrialists, artisans, traders, mayors, farmers, with the French and, I dare say, with parliamentarians. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs MargueriteDeprez-Audebertapplauditedalso]] Yes, minister, this text is a chance. It is now up to us to bring this matter before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u27	Mrs Cendra Motin, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Title II, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u28	It has now been more than forty years since the economic world became aware, at the international level, of its role on climate change. With the first World Climate Conference in 1979 and subsequent conferences of the parties (COPs), States and the economic world have embarked on the necessary transitions, but much remains to be done to make our economy more sober and to build a new capitalist model more transparent and fair. We have already contributed to this with the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, which we will discuss again, and with the law PACTE – action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises. Europe is also working on this, with the completion, expected before the end of the year, of an extra-financial reporting standard for companies, which will allow for more transparency and common criteria for improvement. Today we have the opportunity to continue this work, through Title II, which aims to accompany all economic actors in a very concrete way. I suggest you take a look around. For companies, first of all, this means adopting new, more environmentally friendly production methods. This is one of the pillars of the France Recovery Plan and its investment programmes. Because today's fundamental research foreshadows the technological advances of the day, we have to be on the rendezvous. That is why, in Article 14, we aligned the national research strategy with the low-carbon strategy and the biodiversity strategy. It also means consuming differently, particularly in terms of energy. The extension of the obligation to equip the roof of certain professional buildings with more than 500 square metres of energy production or saving equipment was reinforced in the special commission. To further extend the field of virtuous roofs, I will propose you to integrate the office buildings. This also means that the company must anticipate its changes to support employees in the transition. Over the next few years, Human Resources Directors (HRDs) will face a new challenge by integrating environmental issues into social dialogue and supporting the transformation of trades and organizations. This is the subject of an entire chapter of this title, because, without accompanying the employees in this transition, there is no real climate law. Another important player is the public power and its 200 billion public orders, which are a tremendous lever of transformation for thousands of companies. It is a matter of becoming exemplary in its acts of purchase, but also in their implementation, by imposing environmental considerations not only in the criteria for awarding a contract, but also in its criteria of execution, which goes beyond what the members of the Citizens' Climate Convention had imagined. Together, we will go to the end of the logic by extending these obligations to concessions which alone amount to about EUR 120 billion. Local and regional authorities will have to play a stronger role in the deployment of renewable energy in their territory, starting with the next multiannual energy programme (EPP). Therefore, in order to enable the regions and stakeholders to be truly able to make proposals, we will defend, the rapporteur-general and I myself, an amendment to create a regional energy committee, a place of exchange between the actors in the region, whose proposals will be expected to feed into the decree on the PPE's deployment objectives. The development of renewable or citizen energy communities, which will enable local actors and citizens to become directly involved in the production of renewable energy, will be one of the tools for this regional deployment. Finally, the text offers the consumer, who is the main player in the evolution of the economy, a new opportunity to repair and less throw away. The law on the fight against waste and the circular economy opened the way a year ago. We continue his work with new everyday objects: bicycles, DIY tools and motorized gardening. By 2023, their parts will have to be available for at least five years and, thanks to the work of the special commission, it will be possible to use parts from the re-use to repair them. We are still a major subject that affects all of us and we are increasingly concerned: water, therefore aquatic ecosystems; what surrounds us, which protects us from flooding and mitigates droughts, which preserves the biodiversity and quality of our agricultural land. We include the principle of their preservation in the text and recognize the environmental services they provide to us. Thanks to the work of our colleague Martial Saddier, whom I thank again, we have added an article to protect our strategic drinking water resources, to which we will make some adjustments, including accompanying the adaptation of human activities in the areas to be protected. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs MargueriteDeprez-Audebertapplauditedalso]] We have made good progress in the special committee and I welcome the quality of the debates that have taken place. I know that we are going to enrich this text in session and, in advance, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u29	I call Mr Damien Adam, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Rules 20 and 21 of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u30	Our assembly will finally examine in public session the long-awaited reform of the mining code. While several projects have remained in the cartons in recent years, our majority finally take this subject in arms for the reform to succeed. Indeed, the current mining code no longer meets social and environmental expectations, and its last substantial amendment dates back to 1994. This reform is also very much expected by many of us, ladies and gentlemen, as much as it will have consequences in our metropolitan and overseas districts, whether for past or present or future mining activities. As such, I would like to recall that this reform has been the subject of broad consultation with all stakeholders since 2018. Under sections 20 and 21 of the bill, the primary objective of the Act is to ensure a high level of protection of our environment and the health of riparian populations in mining operations. The 1° of Article 20 extends the list of interests protected by the mining code, adding public health, a concept currently absent from the Code, in order to better take into account the health of the populations bordering the sites, whether closed or active. The most important of the innovations introduced by the reform is the consideration of all the stakes and interests to be protected, at each stage of the legal life of a mine, with the completion of an environmental, economic and social analysis as soon as a mining title is granted, extended or extended, which is not foreseen today. The second innovation of the reform is to provide legal tools that will enable the administration to effectively enforce mining law and its new requirements, beginning with the possibility of refusing a mining title in the event of "serious doubt" about the significant threat its project poses to the environment, public health or any other interest protected by the mining code. Today, the state does not have the power to do so, although it would have avoided litigation such as that of the Golden Mountain. In addition, the amendment by Mr Lenaïck Adam has made it possible to significantly strengthen the sanctions against infringements of mining law, in the case of illegal activities and infringements of environmental interests. As for me, I will propose that we subject mining activities to environmental liability, and extend the financial guarantees required of operators, in order to cover, in particular, any intervention in the event of an accident before or after the closure of a site, which is a very concrete measure. If several of the announced developments will be specified by order, section 20 already proposes immediate post-mine enforcement measures. In this way, it strengthens the consultation of the communes and systematizes new public participation in decisions on the cessation of work, in order to inform the prefect on local issues. Article 20 then extends the residual mine police for 30 years, which allows the prefect to compel a former operator to intervene in the event of threats occurring after the end of his activity, as is the case today for industrial sites, classified installations for the protection of the environment (ICPE). In the special committee, I have proposed an amendment to secure the starting point for this thirty-year responsibility. Finally, Article 20 allows liability to be brought against the parent company of an operator which it would have voluntarily allowed to default. This will allow the state to find a responsible person in the post-mine. I would add that our work will also have to address a very important concern for many parliamentarians with whom I have been able to exchange: the treatment of mine damage. Without anticipating further discussions, the Government would propose extending the power to legislate by ordinance to define what was a mine damage and to reform its reparation and compensation regime, which was a complex subject requiring extensive consultation. In addition, the reform of the mining code has a major strategic dimension. Today, our industrialists are completely dependent on the mineral resources of other countries, such as China, which do not meet our social or environmental requirements. Therefore, it is essential to give France the means to relaunch in a rational and responsible way the exploitation of the resources of our basements, with a genuine national strategy, in order to ensure in particular our ecological transition. On the subject of transition, the reform of the mining code contained in the bill recognizes a future energy, hydrogen, a major role, by establishing a legal framework for its underground storage. In conclusion, Article 21 includes a section devoted to the overseas sector, in particular Guyana, with two main axes: to simplify the procedures for small ultramarine mining projects and to step up the fight against illegal orpainting in Guyana, which is a real scourge for our country. In this respect, we voted in committee to introduce two additional articles. The first empowers the agents of the French Office for Biodiversity (OFB) and the Office national des forêts (ONF) to find violations of the mining code throughout the territory of Guyana. The second extends the deferral from the beginning of authorized police custody in Guyana to all violations of the mining code. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is the reform of the mining code in the bill. I hope I convinced you that it was useful and necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u31	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u32	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Title III, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u33	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the special commission that enriched the bill, the result of the preparatory work for the Citizen's Climate Convention, which I welcome. Expectation, hope, demand more ambition for some, concern and anger for others, the bill leaves no one indifferent. For the political leaders we are, this creates a double duty: to live up to the expectations of the French in the face of the challenges of climate change, but also to accompany in all territories the ambitious ecological and social transition that we defend. We all share the conviction that the status quo is no longer an option, that it is necessary to bring ecology into the daily life of the French. That is precisely what I propose in Title III, "Moving around", of which I have the honour of being rapporteur. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Chapter I reinforces the development of sustainable mobility, which requires an intermediate objective of decarbonisation of the French fleet. Thus, 2030 will mark the end of the sale of the most polluting thermal cars. I will also support an amendment to set the end-of-sale target of 2040 for heavy thermal vehicles for the transport of people and goods. Because the development of soft mobility is crucial, I remain convinced that cycling has its full place in the text and that financial support is the key to success. That is why I will propose an amendment that extends the premium to conversion to electric cycles and bicycles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u35	In order to promote intermodality, the text was enriched with proposals concerning the equipment of parking-relays in secure parking spaces for bicycles. We now need to go further in the equipment of parking lots, making it mandatory to install charging stations for electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids. Finally, the establishment of low-emission mobility zones in agglomerations with a population of more than 150000 and the requirement to experiment with lanes reserved for those areas are essential elements in the fight against air pollution. I would also like to reinforce the development of cycling routes in all these areas. Chapter II aims to reduce the impact of road freight transport on the environment, in particular by removing the tax advantage over the internal consumption tax on energy products (ICTPE), which is enjoyed by freight carriers on road diesel by 2030, within the European framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u36	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u37	Although I am convinced that rail and road still have under-exploited complementarities, I would like to say before you that the energy transition will also involve the green truck.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u38	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u39	Road freight transport is a strategic sector. It is for this reason that the support of French carriers in the transition is essential. We have begun to do so, we will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u41	In order for the emission reduction effort not only to be carried out by carriers, shippers will have to develop action plans to reduce their emissions, including the use of river and rail modes. Finally, the objective of carbon neutrality requires limiting the growth of air traffic and emissions from this sector, which I am aware of the current difficulties. The abolition of airlines where there is an alternative in train of less than two and thirty hours and the prohibition of the construction or extension of airports will help to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u42	Except it's not in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u43	The carbon compensation mechanism for domestic flights is also an innovative tool whose longer-term effects will need to be measured. For this reason, the Special Committee adopted an amendment to publish an annual review of the implementation of the compensation programmes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we will have rich debates because I am sure we all share the same objective: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the sectors to a large extent, while preserving the competitiveness of French transport and accompanying our citizens towards cleaner and more sustainable mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u44	Mr Mickaël Nogal, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters I and II of Title IV, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u45	I am honoured to be a rapporteur for the Housing portion of the bill, which addresses issues related to energy renewal of housing and energy consumption reduction. The bill that brings us together represents a turning point in the fight against climate change. The text we will vote on is part of a collaborative work, which began with the proposals made by the Citizen's Convention for the Climate, an unprecedented democratic exercise desired by President Emmanuel Macron. Housing is at the heart of our ambition. The construction sector accounts for 45 per cent of energy consumption in the country and a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. Without improving the energy and environmental performance of the building, there is no ecological transition possible. The stakes are environmental, but also health, social and economic. At the same time as it represents the largest CO-saving pool, energy renewal is also the promise of a better life for all French people. We must now make every effort to achieve this. We are not starting from anything: considerable progress has already been made since the beginning of the legislature, notably in the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development (ÉLAN), the Law on Energy and Climate, and the Recovery Plan, under which the State invests € 6.7 billion for the energy renovation of buildings. Much has been done, but the road is still long. While the old Energy Performance Diagnosis (EPD) – this famous label that classifies dwellings from A to G – only indicated energy consumption, the new generation EPD provided for in Article 39 is a unique label combining housing consumption and its greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, this new ECD, which will come into force on 1 July next, represents a major step forward in considering the environmental impact of housing. It will also be more reliable than today and made effective to better protect all owners and tenants. If we are to achieve the ambitious goals we have set ourselves, i.e., energy sobriety and carbon neutrality by 2050, we need three essential conditions that we are going to put together in the bill. First of all, give all French people equal access to information throughout the territory through the one-stop shop dedicated to the renovation provided for in Article 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u47	Then, drawing on the recommendations of the Sichel mission, we will offer a turnkey support, which will guide all our fellow citizens in their renovation project, from its development to the control of the work carried out, through access to funding or the choice of recognized professionals. Finally, the ambitious trajectory that we set out in the bill can only be realized through a strong commitment by the state to invest in time, in order to reduce the remaining burden on households, especially the most modest, through a stable and sustainable system of public aid. Let us welcome the unprecedented effort of the Government, which devotes €2 billion of the stimulus plan to the energy renewal of housing, through MaPrimeRénov'. This effort, which is simply unprecedented, will have to continue. The planned trajectory involves accompanying all French people in the renovation, whether they are owner-occupiers or landlords, whether it is an individual house or a condominium. As for the ban on the rental of energy coffers, it will apply from 2025 for all dwellings classified as G,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u48	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u49	We are going to work, dear colleague; wait until you see the amendments. The ban will therefore apply as early as 2025 for all G-classed dwellings, representing nearly 600,000 dwellings. [[The rapporteur-generalapplaudited]] In 2028, the ban will be extended to F-classed dwellings, representing a total of 1.8 million dwellings. Finally, we want to go even further with the Government by prohibiting the rental of E-classified dwellings in 2034. The renovation of G, F and E dwellings, which represent a total of 4.4 million dwellings, will therefore have to be carried out before these different deadlines. In particular, the work in special committees has enabled us to move forward together on the definition of global and efficient renovation. In this way, we specify the six energy renovation stations on which efficient renovations can be based and we define the overall renovation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] Housing measures are a key component of the bill and our strategy to address the strategic emergency that, I recall, is imperative for all of us. Enriched by parliamentary work, they have no precedent and rise to the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u50	Mr Lionel Causse, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters III to V of Title IV, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u51	The bill that we are starting to examine in this House is of unprecedented magnitude. This is another step towards more virtuous consumption and production, more environmentally friendly travel, greener housing and cities, and more sustainable food. In addition to its ecological scope, this text is based on an unprecedented democratic exercise, which combines the participation of citizens with the representativeness of Parliament. After two weeks of intensive examination in the special committee, I am particularly proud of the progress we are proposing in the section on combating soil artificialisation, of which I am the rapporteur and which has caused a lot of ink to flow – it was the subject of more than 1000 amendments in the special committee and nearly 1500 amendments for the sitting. During the examination in the special committee, I always wanted to maintain the balance between local elected representatives and citizens – to anchor the text in the territory – with farmers – for the protection of agricultural areas – with associations – for their ambition to protect spaces and biodiversity – and with economic actors – for their ability to revitalize our cities. In the law, we are adding a goal of two-way reduction of the artificialisation of soil between the decade that has just ended and the decade to come. This is an undeniably ambitious goal, which will limit the tendency of communities to open up ever more space to urbanize, while accompanying them, through numerous tools to densify and improve the existing structure. We formulate a clear definition of soil artificialization. The objective will be set for each region, which will then ensure a balanced distribution of the effort within its territory, in the context of planning...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u52	Planning? But what's going on with you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u53	... and according to the situations of the living pools. Our goal is not so much to prevent soil consumption as to make it smart, proportionate, and to adapt it to needs. We will therefore at the same time strengthen the tools for measuring and analysing artificialisation. With the same objective of adapting our urbanization, we will limit the location, on the outskirts of cities, of large commercial areas, which are very space-consuming and involve a large number of highly polluting movements. Such a moratorium will protect local businesses, thus revitalizing the city centres. The text also includes measures to improve communities' knowledge of their land and the tools available to them to carry out requalification operations, including wasteland, thereby strengthening the action taken by the recovery plan and the wasteland fund. In parallel with this action to better control urban growth, the text includes measures that significantly strengthen the protection of natural areas, for example the inclusion in the law of a national strategy for protected areas, which sets out the ambition to protect 30 per cent of our territory. Finally, and this is a part I have at my heart as a Lande's elected representative, we include in the law tools to combat the retreat of the coast line in the littoral territories. Through the creation of zoning according to the degree of exposure, the identification of risk municipalities and the introduction of a pre-emptive right, coastal elected officials will be able to improve the resilience of their communities. This is the result of a long work between the state, the communities and the members of the Coastal Study Group, which we can truly rejoice at. While we have consolidated the achievements of the work of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, I am also very proud of the progress achieved in the special committee, which allows us to carry even further the ambition of this text, starting with the famous Article 52 on the prohibition of the construction of new shopping centres. [[Mr. MounirMahjoubiapplaudit]] I hear the request of some to include e-commerce logistics warehouses, both to solve the problem posed by their unfair competition with other businesses and to make their establishment in our territories more virtuous. Unfortunately, a simple ban would not solve the environmental issue and increase negative externalities. To act in spite of everything, and in order to allow local elected officials, as close as possible to the ground, to establish coherent territorial planning, I proposed to include logistics warehouses in town planning documents. With the addition of a logistics component, the artisanal and commercial development document will help control the impact of such warehouses on territorial balances. I would like to go even further in the sitting, proposing to involve the State in this process, through the Prefect, whose assent would be necessary in order to derogate from the rule of prohibition of new establishment. With regard to biodiversity, we have added 10 per cent of highly protected areas to the 30 per cent of terrestrial and marine protected areas, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. In order to combat the hyperfrequence of tourism in the high places of nature and to protect these spaces for a long time, we will enshrine in the law the right, for local elected officials, to regulate access to them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] All these measures promise us fine debates in the sitting, which I wish to calm down, constructive and pragmatic. We will have to live up to the expectations of the French, who again yesterday, in protesting for the climate, showed that they were waiting for a paradigm shift in all parts of our daily life. It is therefore time for action, and we must all be on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u54	Mrs Célia de Lavergne, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Title V, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u55	To refer to Title V of the bill, "Feeding," let me take you from the fork to the fork. The fork, first. At all times, the peasants have deployed their energy, their know-how and their inventiveness to meet the expectations of society: to feed us ever more, ever better, respecting their work tool, the earth, the common good of humanity and their beasts. Today, they are also facing and preparing for climate change. First and foremost, I want to pay tribute to their dedication and ability to adapt and transform. Efforts have already been made, and considerable efforts have been made. They are willing to do more, but for that they want our consideration and fair remuneration for their work. This remuneration, we have been working on since the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as the EGALIM Act; Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau will be presenting a bill on this subject soon. The road ahead is huge. Producer remuneration has been declining for more than 30 years; half of them earn less than 500 euros a month. According to INSEE, it is the profession that works the most but earns the least, and, in all socio-professional categories, the one with the highest suicide rate. We owe producers a fair remuneration: for them, for the food sovereignty of our country and for the climate, because, all the studies show, a peasant who makes a good living is a peasant who more easily transforms his practices. To advance this issue by mobilising the consumer, who is a very powerful link for changing the practices of distributors and industrialists, I will defend an amendment aimed at experimenting with an indicator, for each food product, of fair remuneration to the producer – a kind of "pay-score", based on the nutrient-score model, which will allow responsible and informed consumer choice and will encourage manufacturers and distributors to consider them more. In terms of climate issues, the bill targets ammonia and nitrous oxide emissions, which account for 42% of French agriculture's greenhouse gas emissions. In France, while the issue of nitrogen has been dealt with in terms of nitrates in water and farmers have already reduced the use of mineral nitrogen fertilizers by 20% since 1990, it is clear that there is still a long way to go in terms of air pollution. We must go through it together: executive, Parliament and farmers. In my view, this is the only way to bring this common issue to fruition, and it is the meaning of the amendments tabled in a special committee, which will enable Parliament to have an annual record of the efforts in this field, so to legislate ahead of each finance bill with knowledge of the facts. If the objectives set out in Articles 62 and 63 are not met, the introduction of an appropriate tax system shall be provided for; Above all, adhoc budgets will help to keep up with the trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u56	Let's go to the fork and our plates. Article 59 opens the debate on the place of vegetarian meals in our canteens and article 60 on the quality of collective restoration. My conviction is simple: let's stop opposing meat and vegetarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u58	And then, until proven otherwise, a vegetable producer is also a farmer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u59	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The breeders themselves don't do it. As we invite the French, let us restore quality, proximity to our plates and put more vegetarian meals there. There is no need to oppose these to others; They are not the prerogative of a party, nor are they the antechamber of anti-specist organizations. On the other hand, they are the subject of a strong societal expectation from our fellow citizens – we are late to respond. These meals, moreover, serve the environment, as a vegetarian dish is 30% less greenhouse gas emitting than a traditional one. I therefore propose to you, in the articles concerned, a way to reconcile nutritional balance, the quality of the products served, the freedom to choose the diet and the respect for the free administration of local and regional authorities. The experiment, provided for in the law EGALIM, of a weekly vegetarian menu would thus be extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u60	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u61	Bankrupt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u62	The State would take a proactive approach in the canteens of public administrations, institutions and enterprises. There would be consultation with communities to encourage and evaluate experimentation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This will be complemented by the introduction of a specific quality target for livestock and fishery products and a short circuit target, which will allow the products of territorial food projects to enter our canteens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u63	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u64	[[Applause on several issues of the LaREM group. – Mrs MargueriteDeprez-Audebertapplauditedalso]] So, ladies and gentlemen, this work invites us to put more sustainability, more fairness, more food sovereignty on our plates, and from all this we will be debating very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u65	Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Title VI, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u66	In a special commission, we discussed at length the text proposed by the Government following the work of the Citizen's Climate Convention. I want to welcome our debates, which were serious, passionate and constructive; I hope that this republican listening and this desire to improve the text will continue in session. We will thus honour national representation and demonstrate the effectiveness of an ongoing democracy, linking participatory democracy and representative democracy. A society is based on collectively established standards. While law, the instrument of our societal choices, reflects our relationship to property and to others, laws must now also set the framework for our relationship to the environment, to nature. The citizens of the Convention wished to introduce into our legislative arsenal a crime of ecocide defined in these terms: "A crime of ecocide is any action that has caused serious ecological damage by participating in the manifest and not negligible exceedance of the planetary limits, committed in knowledge of the consequences that would result and which could not be ignored. » This idea of the crime of ecocide based on the planetary limits is stimulating, but, in the light of the many works to which it has been subjected, it must be noted that the creation of this crime raises many questions. A first almost unanimous point that emerges from the hearings we have conducted is that the crime of ecocide must be viewed from a transnational and supranational perspective. It has no interest today in including it in our national law and, for environmentalists, practitioners, lawyers and, finally, magistrates, this new qualification proposed by the citizens is not at stake. However, the will of the citizens is legitimate, and I think we all share it. But, if we need to better protect nature, I have become convinced that including the crime of ecocide in our national law is neither the urgency nor the solution for a more protective justice of our living ecosystems. How can we move forward, then, to better protect the environment, punish those who cheat and provide a reliable legal framework for economic actors? We already have standards and regulations, but the questions we need to ask ourselves are whether our legal model is sufficiently protective: is it effective? Is it understandable by all actors – economics, associatives –, by public authorities and by citizens? In December 2020, as part of the text on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, we laid some of the foundations of the building site to ensure a better effectiveness of environmental law. It follows in particular from this text that, with the creation of specialised environmental courts, judicial agreements in the public interest in environmental matters can now be concluded; In addition, inspectors of the French Biodiversity Office are assigned judicial police powers. In the special committee, we have continued this work and, although I regret that we have not adopted some of my proposals which would have secured the provisions of Articles 67 and 68 and would probably have made them more effective, we must welcome significant progress on the endangerment of the environment, the supplementary penalties, the limitation period for public action, the penalty for restoring the natural environment, the increase in the amount of fines and, finally, the establishment of an accident investigation office dedicated to industrial risks. Our discussions will have to go even further, for example with the adoption of amendments on the issue of environmental referrals, which would be a much more effective response than a crime of ecocide, without any scope. Finally, we will have to give ourselves the means to evaluate the mechanisms of the text. Many of us have highlighted this issue of managing the carbon trajectory and climate assessment of laws, and Title VI is a first brick in answer to this delicate question. Our society can no longer ignore the stakes of the new relationship that we must build with living ecosystems and nature; Our society can no longer be organized without taking into account the place of our nature, its right to exist, to regenerate and to flourish. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Opening the way for new legal provisions, reorganising them and creating special bodies for the protection of nature will enable France, a pioneer in the field of fundamental freedoms, to take part in this collective effort and to meet this ethical requirement for the preservation of the environment. If we complete this project, we will protect our resources effectively and seize our last chance to bequeath to future generations a harmonious and healthy planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u67	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u68	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u69	Here comes parliamentary time on a bill that, in many respects, has gone beyond the norm. Apart from the norm, first of all, because of its genesis, which everyone knows: for the first time, a panel of citizens was called upon to draw up proposals to meet the most urgent challenge we have to face, the fight against global warming. We know this challenge well for having, on several occasions, deliberated and adopted measures to transform our economy and to accompany it in its necessary decarbonisation. I will not go back here to the progress made in the EGALIM Act, the ELAN Act, the Energy and Climate Act, the Law on Combating Waste and the Circular Economy or the Law on the Orientation of Mobilitys: everyone remembers our debates, which are particularly nourished, especially in this House. The bill before us is an opportunity to deepen them, as we have begun to do in a special commission. The Citizen Climate Convention, which I welcome, has therefore put forward proposals, some of which, of a legislative nature, have been incorporated into this bill but also into the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, adopted in December 2020, as well as into the draft constitutional law amending Article 1 of the Constitution, adopted on 16 March. We have conducted numerous hearings even before the text was tabled in the National Assembly, then in a special committee, in parallel with all those carried out by our rapporteurs, who have done remarkable and even colossal work in view of the time allocated to them. I would, of course, like to welcome them, as they have once again demonstrated the usefulness of the preparatory work carried out by parliamentarians before deliberating. Let me also thank the Government, which has been very available throughout this process. This text is also out of standard because of the scale of the parliamentary initiative it has generated, which is normal, given the essential issues it raises; It is the daily life and the human activities as a whole that are affected by the ecological transition that we must implement. No less than 3,850 amendments have been debated for more than 100 hours in the special committee, which shows the seriousness of our work and the involvement of everyone in the debates. I would also like to welcome all the members of the special committee who have sat, including on the weekend, to discuss and argue on the various possible policies and options. Everyone's involvement needs to be emphasized, as many topics have been clarified, supplemented and deepened. This full exercise of the parliamentary initiative is also reflected in the fact that, from 69 articles initially, the bill rose to 127 articles after its consideration by the special commission. This seems to me to demonstrate the usefulness of the parliamentary debate, which has made it possible to move forward on important issues, whether in the fields of consumer information, productive activities, transport, agriculture and food, housing and urban planning, or judicial protection of the environment. In this regard, the climate and resilience bill does indeed appear to be an ambitious text, aimed at implementing a realistic, sustainable and socially acceptable transition, particularly in the context of the crisis we are experiencing. One last point seems essential to me. To allow us to monitor very closely the commitments of public and private actors involved in this transition, we may need to go even further to strengthen the assessment of the implementation of the measures and trajectories set out in this text. Without an assessment and precise control of this law, we would be unable to measure its effectiveness and adjust its trajectories. That is the meaning of the amendment that we will present to you together with the rapporteur-general, at the very end of the discussion of the text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The discussion in open session should allow us to go even further to enrich the text and to continue the work done by the Special Committee. I have no doubt that we will collectively be able to live up to its challenges, to the expectations expressed by citizens, especially young people, who are mobilizing everywhere and in numbers in the face of the climate emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u70	Mrs Liliana Tanguy, on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u71	I am speaking today as rapporteur for the observation of the Committee on European Affairs on this bill, which aims to translate 46 of the 149 proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention into legislation. It is therefore not a text of transposition or adaptation to European Union law. However, many provisions of the text are linked to European environmental ambitions, recently reinforced by the presentation of the Green Pact for Europe. This "climate and resilience" bill is based on the observation of the citizens, shared by the Government and myself, of the need to act very quickly for the protection of the planet, both at national and European level, but also at the level of our territories, already very affected by the consequences of climate change: I have a very special thought for my constituency of Finistère, which faces the erosion of the coasts of the country of Bigouden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u72	Well done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u73	I also welcome the excellent proposal for a law on sustainable nutrition, drawn up by the students of the school of Saint-Jean-Trolimon, within the framework of the Children's Parliament, which is in line with Title V of the text we are considering. This bill is intended to help France achieve the EU's ambitious climate targets: with the forthcoming adoption of the European climate law by the end of 2021, the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions must be raised from 40 to 55 per cent by 2030, compared to their 1990 level. More than that, the European law aims at the EU's climate neutrality in 2050, as my colleague Nicole Le Peih pointed out very precisely in her work. To achieve this, the Green Pact foresees various sectoral strategies, requiring the adoption or forthcoming revision of European standards, particularly in the fields of agriculture, transport or circular economy. These are precisely the areas in which the provisions of the climate and resilience bill intervene. As part of my rapporteur's mission, therefore, my first observation is the changing nature of European climate and environmental law. By adopting this ambitious text, defended with strength and conviction by our minister, Barbara Pompili, France is thus one of the most demanding Member States in climate matters. My second observation is the political choice of this bill, which is to anticipate European regulation in a number of ways – in particular on the issue of environmental signage. This text thus enables France to take on a leading role in environmental matters in the European Union and encourages it to be a force for proposals in the forthcoming negotiations for the implementation of the Green Pact for Europe. My last observation is linked to the balance between respecting European ecological objectives and taking into account the economic challenges of the various sectors concerned that this bill allows. My conviction is that, in order to be effective and fair, the ecological and climate transition must be based on the acceptability of the new measures by the citizens. In this regard, the draft law takes into account this necessary support from all relevant actors. In the light of these observations, my work as rapporteur led me to make ten recommendations on the implementation of this transition. The first category of recommendations concerns the articles that refer to the European negotiations to extend the measures provided for in the draft law at Union level. Three provisions thus provide for priority action at European level in the field of road diesel, solidarity tax on air tickets and levy on mineral nitrogen fertilizers. On all these issues, the negotiations must be linked with the organisation of the French Presidency of the European Union, which will begin for six months on 1 January 2022, giving France a chance to put some of its environmental priorities on the agenda of the European negotiations. The second category of observations aims more broadly to support and encourage France in the defence of positions that complement the provisions of the draft law: this is the case of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, which is the subject of a proposal from the Citizen's Climate Convention and which should be a high priority for France during its presidency of the Union. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of this bill, which must enable France not only to achieve increasingly high European objectives, but also to assert itself as a Member State, pioneer and ambitious in the European environmental strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u74	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u75	Two hours would have been better! [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] President, minister, how many rapporteurs and rapporteurs – eleven, whose speeches will be in addition to the minister's speaking time and the nine hours to which the Republic on the move will be entitled, of which we know all the details of the thought on the subject, but that is not too much – we are now called to discuss a climate bill, perhaps the only one on this subject that we will have discussed during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u76	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u77	You must have missed a few sessions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u78	[[The rapporteur-general asked]] The scope of the subject deserves a meditation on the nature of the response that is expected from the national representation when asked. For if the climate is integrated into the geography of which it is involved, it does not know the borders, nor the nations they delimit. So much so that at this time, aware of the totality of the problem before us, we are not deliberating so much in the deputies of the French people as in the deputies of the human people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u79	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u80	Our deliberation will have a direct influence, not only on our compatriots, but on humanity as a whole because, depending on each other, we are definitely instructed that the human species is actually one and indivisible in the ecosystem in which it is integrated, which is itself indivisible, and that, if it is probable that spiders, bees and earthworms can live in other ecosystems without human beings, it is absolutely certain that human beings cannot live in any ecosystem other than that in which these animals are found. We will not claim to have any monopoly on ecological awareness at the time we reject this text. We believe that, from now on, all parties are concerned about the ecological context: all, without exception. The discussion, therefore, is not about who is more or less so, but about how we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u82	This discussion is of fundamental ideological importance to us because, basically, we are discussing the way in which human society is organized and the form it takes in its relationship to nature. But it is not on this ground that the legislative debate takes place. It takes place in the field of comparing concrete measures. The concrete is, in our view, the most revolutionary salt that can be put in the political kitchen today. We will reject this project because it does not contain the concrete and indispensable measures that are within our reach and which you have decided not to take. What matters is less what you propose to do than what you decide not to do in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u83	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u84	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Applause on the banks of the FIand GDR groups. – Ms JenniferdeTemmermanapplauditedalso]] How can we make a climate law without saying a word about the moratorium on international agreements such as CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement –, JEFTA – Free Trade Agreement between Japan and the European Union –, Mercosur – Common Market of the South – which are superpowerful invitations to the ruin of the planet? How can we make a law on climate and on reducing greenhouse gas emissions without a plan for the railway, which is missing 3 billion a year...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u85	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u86	... and without a ban on expanding airports – because the three you have planned to limit don't care what regulation you're proposing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u87	That's why we didn't do Notre-Dame-des-Landes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u88	How can we make a law on climate and on reducing greenhouse gas emissions without prohibiting the rental of the thermal colanders that are so many dwellings?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u89	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] How can we do this without abolishing advertising on polluting products? How can we do this without a word about 100% renewable? How can this be done even though the representatives of this Government were not present at the trial on the Golden Mountain permit?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u91	Justice will do its job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u92	[[The rapporteur-general exclaimed]] I'm passing, and probably some of the worst. So much so that not me, Mélenchon, nor even the Insoumis, who all signed a petition to ask for a real law on climate change, but the very ones that you had summoned, that is, the citizens of the Convention, gave you the note of 2.5/ 10 for the conclusions that you arrived at! Finally, the bill was found insufficient by 110 environmental organizations, plus the High Climate Council. What is insufficient in environmental matters is probably useless – but, after all, why not – but above all dangerous. Not being on time is dangerous, because the ecological moment is under the sign of urgency. Climate change has begun. We are certain to move to a temperature increase of 1.2 °C since the beginning of the industrial era. We are in the sixth extinction of species, with a drastic reduction in biodiversity: 1 million endangered species. The sea level rise has begun. We all knew that the question would arise because, as early as COP21 in Paris, representatives of the island states had protested against the fact that the proposed document did not protect them from the fact that their nation would be struck off the map by the rise of the waters if it remained at the expected temperature rise. And it was because they intervened in this way that the French leaders understood the need to take the initiative to change the level of temperature rise proposed by COP21. However, on the way out, we all saw that, in the commitment documents of the States, it was not +1.5°C that they predicted for themselves, but +3.5°C, in other words, the assured consumption of the disaster. Dozens of islands are already swallowed; 12,000 will be soon. There are already 25 million climate refugees in the world; There will be 250 million, according to the United Nations (UN).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u93	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u94	The urgency that knocks on our door is not ideological, it is concrete. When human masses are moving because there is no water in Lake Chad, when human masses are moving because, here or there, the rise of the sea causes the land to be acidified, there is no longer any reason or border that stands against hunger, thirst and the will to protect its family and children; People move, ignoring borders, ignoring rules, causing a geopolitical tohu-bohu that we all have to face. All this is not ideology in the strict sense, it is not a debate between us, it is concrete. What are we doing concretely to bring our action to the level? Do we assume, yes or no, once and for all, that humanity and the whole planet have entered a new era? The great man Paul Crutzen, who died recently, had, in the 1980s, provoked the first global convention involving all mankind about nitrogen oxides, which made holes in the ozone layer. This is the first time that everyone has agreed to take steps to prevent the hole from widening. We have overcome this difficulty and now we are told that the hole is shrinking; the problem is not resolved, but it is well on the way to evolution. Paul Crutzen had proposed to define the present era as the age of the anthropocene. The first time the word was used, it caused a lot of surprise: after the pleistocene, the anthropocene. Some say that it should not be called anthropocene, because what is at issue would not be the human being, but the economic regime in which he lives, that is, capitalism. I take the anthropocene in memory of Paul Crutzen and his work, in which he began by pointing out that, as in the numbering of the Anglo-Saxons, the results of the carbon 14 exams are now calculated according to a date considered BP, beforepresent. The present is the year 1950 when radioactive material was first found on the surface of the planet in a quantity that changes the tiny upper part of it, bringing us into a new era. Since then, we have seen that there are not just radioactive products. Perhaps we will be the era of chicken wings, because 80% of the birds that live on earth today are chickens and farmed ducks, so that a scientist has proposed to call this era the age of chicken. But one might as well cite plastic, which is found in almost everything, especially in the sea, in very large quantities, and even in the bodies of human beings, especially unborn human beings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u95	What does it have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u96	This is the present, the human footprint in geology. She's absolutely amazing. The weight of what human beings have made now surpasses that of all living beings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u97	What about the concrete measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u98	The plastic produced weighs twice as much as all the animals living on the planet's surface.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u99	We want solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u100	[[Claims on several banks in the LaREM Group – Riressurlesbanks in theDem Group]] The human being is now a force of erosion and transformation of geology greater than any other force of nature: wind, rain, rivers, rivers, the sea. The human being is therefore completely, radically, absolutely responsible for his destiny, as announced, in the book Deladignité of Man, Pic de La Mirandole and the founders of humanism, who said: do not rely on Providence to regulate your destiny, rely on yourself, on your intelligence, for that is all you have to deal with situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u101	It's not with quotes that we protect the climate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u102	I am pleased with the hilarity and enthusiasm that this phrase triggers in some colleagues: it is good to laugh in cemeteries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u103	We don't know the situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u104	We have entered a moment of change: this is the moment of the next ten years. Some phenomena are irreversible, we can't help it anymore. You mentioned earlier, Madam Minister, the event in the Roya Valley, and I agree with you. The evaporation of the Mediterranean Sea, which is a kind of lake with an opening of only 13 kilometers on the world ocean, takes place faster than the other seas of the world, so much so that, for each additional degree, it is 7% of rain and condensation in addition, and that the entire Mediterranean facade is condemned to torrental waterfalls that neither nature, which was not planned for that, nor human facilities are able to amortize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u105	That's the diagnosis we all have. Where's the Mélenchon order?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u106	[[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds. – Riressurlesbancs of the LaREMetDem groups]] It's coming, wait! In 2022, vote for me, and you'll have it right away. I'm being asked where the Mélenchon climate order is, but I'm going to point out a detail that seems to escape you: I'm in opposition! All I'm asking is for you to govern and leave – not all of you, I like you, but change your political line and keep your humor to two balls for your fairs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u107	We need a project, not criticism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u108	The tipping moment is the moment when the melting of the Antarctic and Greenland ice cap alters the sea treadmill, the GulfStream,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u109	We know!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u110	... in such a way that all the civilizations that are along this treadmill, from the Americas, Africa, Europe, with animals, cultures and everything related to it, everything is threatened, everything is transformed, all the landmarks are changed. What will happen? A geologist friend I asked where the Doubs went, where he disappeared, told me, "He's under there. We talked, and I asked him, "So, what would you recommend me do? »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u111	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u112	"Does soil waterproofing have to be prohibited? » He answers: "Yes, why not, but listen carefully: we have entered a phase where, for perhaps a decade or two, all parameters will be uncertain. So we are entering the age of uncertainty about the decision. That is why the precautionary principle must necessarily be applied with more vigour perhaps than in the past, and that, therefore,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u113	We're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u114	... all measures of mutual protection, mutual assistance and precaution must be deployed, and of course discussed, because it is not even certain that they are sufficient. The displacement of the West African and Indian monsoon will bring about millions of people to whom, unless they are condemned to death, another solution will have to be proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u115	Here, sir, we do the French law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u116	This is the time to say that we do not defend nature, which is happening from us: as it is, the universe will continue to roll in the icy silence of its infinity and the planets to evolve there. There'll be more animals, no doubt. We do not defend nature, but the ecosystem compatible with human beings: this one, and this one only, because we do not know how to defend others. This is what Karl Marx called "the inorganic body of man".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u117	One more quote, no proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u118	You can read Karl Marx, you know, it's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u119	We read it, we went to school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u121	[[RiressurthebanksoftheFIandLTgroups]] Did you read it? I don't think so. It would have made you smarter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u122	I'll give reading advice too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u123	Now let's look at the fundamental cycles of the human species, disturbed by what we live in, and you will bring back the measures of the text to see if they are – not a little bit, totally – up to the level. The water cycle suffers from the melting of ice, the change in the GulfStream regime – the two being linked –, the rise of water, its acidification – all going together – and, above all, the transformation of water quality. The amount of pesticides and plastic that we have spilled into the water is ours: for example, plastics thrown into the sea come back in the form of microparticles in snow and ice to the point that pregnant women in Greenland are banned from eating fish because of the plastic found in human fetuses. The water cycle is completely disturbed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u124	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u125	No one knows how to do it when only 1% of the water available on the planet is safe. The question of drinking water will arise for all of us and will require terrible measures to prevent the loss or waste of this water from now on, to prevent conflicts of use resolved to please a particular clientele, whose problem is not that it is fighting to live but that it be returned, to do so, to ways that harm the lives of others. The air cycle is completely deregulated, and one in five deaths is related to air pollution. So obviously, we're gonna say it's just the diagnosis. It's true, but we have to do it, and to the end. To the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u126	We did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u127	We are waiting for your concrete proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u128	I'm not just talking to you, ladies and gentlemen, who are not interested in what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u129	Yes, a little too much by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u130	Yes, you say interesting things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u131	... but perhaps to those who might be interested: suffer that there is an opposition! What is certain is that it is necessary to go back to this idea in order to understand and make others understand the danger: the earth's atmosphere compatible with human life is the result of pollution dating back to a few hundred million years, perhaps 2 billion, when the carbon that was mostly there was transformed into oxygen by bacteria. The reverse mechanism takes place before our eyes! We know that these phenomena can happen yesterday because of bacteria, today because of us, human beings. So much so that scientists alert us: we must prevent the process that leads to oxygen depletion. To that end, we must ban the destruction of existing carbon sinks, and we must do so now in the law! Shaved cuts make no sense because they exhaust carbon sinks and 60 years are needed to restore soil fertility while replanting for forty years. It is these economic cycles that must be broken! And it's decided now! There are many peasants in our assembly: they know the state of the earth's cycle. The part of organic matter in the earth that we are working on – because that's all the earth! – reduced by half. In 50 years, soil fertility has declined by 23%. All this concerns the survival of all kinds of bugs that are there and that die only from what is put there, that is to say those tons of pesticides that must be banned now, immediately, not the day after tomorrow. Besides the cycle of the earth, the cycle of the air, the cycle of the water, there is the cycle of the day and the night, which joins that of the day before and the awakening, for which our laws are even more directly responsible. Sleeping time in the world has gone from ten to six and a half hours. A quarter of the planet is permanently illuminated,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u132	And how much by Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u133	...so much so that all cycles are upset. Half of the planet's animal sound has disappeared. Finally, in the generation cycle, to which human beings can attach more importance than others because it is more immediate and concerns their parentele, the fertility of European men has decreased by half in fifty years. Many of you say that they are well informed about this diagnosis, which I have just come back to to underline the urgency: I very much believe it is the reason why, in the discussion of the sections of the bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u134	You're defending a rejection motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u135	You're not consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u136	You don't have a counter-project!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u137	... everyone will decide, no doubt, with the standard of urgency in his hand. I know that you will postpone my motion of rejection – this tool exists and I can use it well, you who speak to twelve on this text. Human civilization is also threatened by three other factors. First of all, the economic model of bringing down all prices has accelerated the cycle of goods and money, in a word, capitalism. In order to apply this model, ultra-intensive farms have been developed, which are the first and main homes of zoonoses, since human beings have been engaged in agriculture and in the first cities. Their scale is now that of the globalized economy, in which a virus appearing at one place spreads in a certain and endemic way throughout the earth's surface. These farms are the cause of the accelerated transmission of epidemics, the number of which has tripled in the last 15 years. In addition, cities, which today constitute the critical habitat of human beings, are threatened by rising waters, as the largest cities in the world are on the waterfront. That's for the habitat. Then, even more terrible problem, networks. Today, it is the networks that make cities and cities that make people. Collective networks are essential for the production and reproduction of people's material existence. However, networks are not compatible with the unleashing of climate change violence. A high-voltage electricity grid, at 40 degrees of temperature and a wind of 170 kilometres per hour, is no longer robust, as was verified in the United States of America, where huge fires have been declared for this reason. [[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] Climate change is seen as a threat to the dominant economic system itself, as it is fully globalized and financed. The European Central Bank, a branch of the French Communist Party no doubt, has just said that climate change was one of the systemic risks that needed to be taken into account. A systemic risk is the kind of event that occurred in 2008, which caused the collapse of the financial planet on the backs of the poor people who were then called to replenish it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] So it's possible to talk about principles, which is why I wanted to make this diagnosis: not to teach you something – I started by saying that I was sure you knew all about it – but to realize that knowledge makes you more responsible and more guilty of everything you don't do. We have summarized our political line in one sentence: we aim to bring about a society of harmony between human beings and between human beings and nature. Indeed, harmony between human beings, i.e. the reduction of social inequalities, is a direct contribution to the preservation of the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u138	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u139	Social inequalities kill, pollute and make stupid. Most of all, they're polluting! People in the richest 1% pollute twice as much as the poorest half of humanity! Four French banks each have a greater carbon footprint than France itself. [[Same movements]] This is why we deduce the firm and not always very popular principles to which we must cling in order to organize public action. First of all, we must not draw more resources from nature than it can restore. This is called the green rule, which represents a challenge for all engineers and technicians: to find everywhere the way to develop a sober energy consumption and a great capacity for renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u140	It's fine, we're okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u141	Finally, the synchrony between the cycles of human activity and those of nature must be achieved. For this, we must recover collective ownership of collective time, now appropriate by the cycle of short time of capitalism. Collective ownership of time requires putting planning and forecasting back on the agenda: not by ideology but because this approach is concrete. Capitalism today lives exclusively in short time; the average holding time of a share is twenty-two seconds in the globalised market. But nature lives in time: the renewal of a deciduous forest takes 180 years, but we cut every 40 years. The industry's time is long: seven years have elapsed between the decision to create the TGV and its first launch. The long time is also that of the generation: 13 years to bring a young child from his or her entry into school to the baccalaureate. Human life, like that of nature, is made up of long cycles. The right to intervene on these long cycles should not be reserved for those who own it in small slices in the short time when their money governs everything. That is why we are deducing the measures to be taken. We need long time to control the water cycle. We lose one litre out of five and I'm told it's a good thing because the lost litres go back to nature, but they won't be in the same condition because they'll have washed the soils full of pesticides. We have to stop this loss. Continue to renovate water systems at the same rate as today would take 150 years! We are not 150 years old on this issue! That is why we are currently organising a citizens' vote, under the authority of my colleague Mathilde Panot and a series of associations, for the collective ownership of water and the inclusion of the right to water in the Constitution, as proposed by our friend and comrade Evo Morales at a plenary session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u142	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u143	We need to clean up: glyphosate must be banned, end point. Other techniques need to be found: young agri-food engineers, women and men, are ready to invent these techniques. We have to demand them to say that we will no longer put a single gram of glyphosate in nature in 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u144	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u145	It is necessary to arbitrate conflicts over the use of water and to free the peasantry from the burden of the debts it has had to incur in order to be in line with the current agricultural model. It should be called upon to develop all the creativity that the competent young generation is capable of. As I said earlier, we can act on forests: we have the second largest mass of Europe, we can do something about it! We have known the relationship between forests and climate since the 18th century. So this is not an invention of the moment. Buffon explains it very well by evoking "the wraths of the sky", in a text that you can read. Of course, this belief has led to abuses, but it is of great interest to our thinking. We must ban razed cuts in the forests. We need to hire more agents from the NFB, to guarantee them a stable status and to give them everything that the law allows them to have, and that is now denied to them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The society for which we are fighting about the ecological challenge will never be a mere set of rules – even if we obviously need to talk about it and decide about it: it is the society of mutual aid and sharing. This story is going to go wrong, we all know. And in these bad times, we remember what anthropology has taught us: if, despite the bad habits that it has taken under the current general regime of selfishness, permanent competition and the aspiration to the enjoyment of useless goods, humanity remains what we have seen it to be for millennia, we know that in difficulty, it is the will of mutual help that will prevail – as at the moment! A society of mutual assistance is possible: it is that of public services, of the decision in favour of the general interest, of which it does not believe that it results only from the addition of particular interests. France can do much in this field, for the good of humanity: first of all, to share the knowledge available to it. Would it not be a great ecological measure to create an ocean university, since we are the world's second largest maritime territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u146	It's called IFREMER – French Institute of Research for the Exploitation of the Sea – in Brest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u147	At this university, we would welcome all those who, coming from where they want in the world, would come to study and learn how to explore and value this resource, instead of abandoning themselves to the European Union's tripodage, which buys fish stocks, emptys them and pushes riparian populations to poverty! Société du partage, société de l'aide: France can do a lot. The largest offshore wind turbine in the world was built in France; the French satellites have put themselves at the service of an ocean clean-up campaign in Indonesia; The CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research, which has more to do than go to monitor Islamo-leftists – is able to lead the World Algae Coalition. I have to end with principles, once again. I told you that, in our view, we are now the deputies of the human people. Now is the time to see again the unity of the human species. This is the time to renew, for all of us who are Republicans – in any case for those who are – the link we have with the idea of humanism that I mentioned earlier. Yes, it is a new humanism that is demanded by the period in which we live. At the bottom, from the beginning, there were two branches: on the one hand, people saying that human beings are animals like others – which has earned them many stakes – and that we cannot be right against nature, as the Baron of Holbach said in the 18th century. On the other hand, those who said, "All this has been done for us, it is written in the Book, and therefore we must become masters and possessors of nature." I would hate to have Descartes brought back to that one sentence, because the methodical doubt that he taught us had also brought him closer to the stake. But it is with this type of formula that we must break: we do not have to be masters and possessors of nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u148	Guardians and protectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u149	...on the contrary, we have to think of the harmony we can have with her. This brings us back to the founding myths: the gods had decided to bring the living with various qualities and entrust this task to Epimetheus...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u150	And Casimir, are we talking about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u151	...the name of which is said to mean "the one who thinks after" in Greek – the disaster must take place in order for him to start thinking about it. Epimetheus thus distributed the talents: such a short animal quickly, such another has great claws, etc. Arrive the human being, but there's nothing left for him. Then comes Prometheus, "the one who thinks before" – a sort of planner – who says, "These, I don't know what to give them! We'll give them the intelligence. He gives them the technique with, and makes them authors of their own history. That's the starting point for all of us; Because the Republican idea was born at that time. This humanism, which was initially philosophical, immediately became a political humanism. I hope to live up to the dignity that he inspired so many others before me, and probably at the same time as I did at this moment. We must be among those who are prometheans, who think before and who remember this anecdote. Because once human beings had this talent, it would seem that soon they used it to destroy each other. It was then decided, on behalf of the gods, that they would solve these problems by discussing with each other: for that, there was democracy. The main obstacle we face is not human beings. The obstacle we face is capitalism...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u152	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u153	... because it is he who, intrinsically, is responsible for the necessity that people feel, against every reason, to accumulate and consume, for some, or to suffer without anything, for others. It is not a good sign, in the days we live, that your government, your European Union, is voting in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) against the universalisation of vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u154	It's good to be a universalist again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u155	How sorry I am that my country, which until 1959 did not allow any patents on vaccines, was not the first to offer free access to the production of these vaccines! So much so that today the subject is discussed at Mr Biden's! As you are often the faithful poodles, you too will end up doing so, if he so decides.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u156	It's better than Morales!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u157	Yeah, but this is real life. This is all a bad omen. The universalization of humanity occurs on a daily basis, in the creolization of morals, habits and languages. But as far as science and technology are concerned, everything remains to be done since it has been stupidly decided to place patents everywhere – that is, to make the fruits of intelligence a private property – which we had not known in the past. It is by liberating society from this chain and from the behaviors it induces, that we will all free ourselves, whoever we are, whatever our skin colour, religion or gender. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] In essence, what we are talking about through debates like this is that if there is a de facto human people, then it must be in their own consciousness. If there is a human people, if there is an Earth people, if he is for himself, then we will have done a useful work, in the sense that we will have taken up the old injunction on the front of the temple of Apollo in Delphi, where all the European thinking humanity of the time gathered to meditate. To become the human people is to apply once and for all this individual idea: "Know yourself". You're first of all human, similar to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u158	We didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u159	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u160	I've listened to you, Mr. President Mélenchon, and it's been hot for me to realize that, finally, everyone is becoming aware of the challenge of fighting global warming. Do we still have to make the diagnosis? For some, obviously, it must. I can simply refer you to a speech that for me was a founder: the declaration of candidacy for the presidential election of René Dumont, in 1974. It's been forty-seven years! I wasn't born yet – perhaps you, Mr. President. Since then, I've heard a lot of palabres and a lot of ridicule, too, about ecological issues. I am really glad that, finally, ridicule gives way to words that project us into the future. Words are good; diagnostics are good; But the urgency obliges us all to act...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u161	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u162	...and just get out of the diagnostics. I listened to your proposals, Mr. Mélenchon...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u163	Well, was there?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u164	Yeah, there are a few, I've been looking for them. You talked about the water and the different cycles; You're right. You talked about the cycle of water and oceans that are very damaged, by plastic pollution for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u165	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u166	I'll remind you all that the equivalent of a plastic garbage truck pours every minute into the ocean. Yes, we must act! I heard you say we need measures. We must, and we are instaurating them, with the law on combating waste and the circular economy, and today with the draft law on combating climate disruption and strengthening resilience to its effects; for example, by increasing the use of bulk, which makes it possible to fight very hard against plastic packaging. This is a measure of the bill on which you defend a motion of rejection; So you're proposing that we can't vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u167	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u168	You're talking about the air,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u169	You're brewing a lot of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...the deregulated cycle of air and pollution issues. Well, in this bill, we are proposing the creation of low-emission zones that will affect half of the French population. Half the French population!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u171	3%!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u172	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] The polluting cars will no longer be able to enter these areas, but we do not stop there; Of course, mothers who walk their children in their strollers will finally look a little better to make them breathe, but we will also help artisans, who will no longer be able to enter these areas, to change their vehicles. We're going to help people find solutions, because it's easy to swing slogans, but it's a little bit harder to apply them and create social harmony around the ecological transition. You've talked a lot about the forest; You said you had to stop the shaved cuts. All right, but for us to talk about the same things, I recall that between 1850 and 2019, the forest surface doubled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u173	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u174	She's doubled! That doesn't mean you don't have to do anything, far from it. The forest must adapt to global warming, which could cause it to burn. We have an operator, the NFB, who needs to rebuild; We're working on it. All this requires that we get a little out of the slogans, that we work against deforestation, especially against imported deforestation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u175	What about the Gold Mountain project?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u176	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There are measures in this law to combat imported deforestation, which concerns not only the climate, but also the problem of zoonoses. It's also what caused the entire planet to block because of a virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u177	You have rejected all our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u178	[[Same movements]] [[Mr. AlexisCorbièrerit]] That's what we're trying to do. You say that all this is the fault of capitalism: it's still a slogan! I have been investing in ecology for twenty years: unfortunately, the damage done on the planet has spared no country, not even the communist countries that are fighting against capitalism. There have also been irreversible damage in those countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u179	More than anywhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u180	You missed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u181	The legacy is therefore unfortunately very broad and it is supported by all. Let's get out of these debates, let's see what the real problems are!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u182	You have rejected all our amendments! You're just making sentences!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u183	No, sentences, you're the one making them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u184	We talked about it; You did a half-hour diagnosis, I'm not going to go back. But let us tackle the real problems. You say that the prometheans are the ones who think before: it's very good, and we've all been thinking well. Now, I would like to take action, particularly through this bill, but not just because it is not the only climate legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u185	But there's nothing in this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u186	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Mélenchon, I inform you, since you did not know – you are a parliamentarian, you were there when I was also a parliamentarian – that since the beginning of the legislature, and even before – there have been at least three laws dealing with the climate. It's a puzzle that's happening. We have a big piece of the puzzle on which to work and we have hours in front of us to do it: I propose that we put ourselves there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u187	We should not reject all our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u188	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, rapporteur-general, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u189	President Mélenchon, I listened to you with great attention: you had the sincerity of the novice, of the one who has just discovered climate change. No, Mr. President, climate change is not today. I refer you to the works of the Club of Rome, of which Stop Growth?, published in 1972. When you were a minister, Mr. President, you did nothing against climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u190	You don't know what you're talking about! What do you know about higher education?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u191	Two years ago, you didn't have hard enough words to mention EELV (Europe Ecology The Greens) and Yannick Jadot. You're discovering ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u192	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u193	Stop being contemptuous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u194	I will ask you only one question: Have you read the bill? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're saying it's our only climate law. This is not true: since the beginning of the legislature, the so-called energy-climate law, the ELAN law on housing, the EGALIM law and the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy concern ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u195	What about the recovery of neonicotinoids?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text, which you seem not to have read, contains dozens of concrete measures. Each deserves to be discussed and voted on, which is why a motion of rejection that includes all of them is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u197	We'll talk about yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u198	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is open to Mr François-Michel Lambert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u199	The temperature is rising, so is the anger. Yesterday, from Lille to Bonifacio and Quimperlé to Strasbourg, more than 110,000 citizens gathered to protest against the shortcomings of the climate and resilience bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u200	And how much in the Gers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u201	Like them, like many of my colleagues, such as the High Climate Council, and so many experts, I consider this bill to be unsatisfactory as it stands. The measures it entails will not be enough to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, let alone reduce them by 55%, in line with the European target. However, the coming decade will be crucial if we are to succeed in the structural changes necessary to achieve our objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, limiting damage to diversity and combating all forms of pollution. That is what Mr Mélenchon wanted to stress. It is not for future generations to meet this challenge, but for us today. Of course, the small measures contained in this bill are moving in the right direction, but their implementation will not be enough to bring about a paradigm shift, an essential ecological transformation. Too many issues have been excluded or not addressed, in particular the fight against plastic pollution, water resources management, biodiversity protection and forest resources. Worse, the text lacks structural thinking. Why do we live in so many constrained and disorderly mobilities? Should we simply ban, or should we revise our model of existence, between places of life, of work, of leisure, of public service, and rethink our economy, based on the society of consumption and waste, caught in a frantic globalization? The failed freighter of the Evergreen company has become its symbol; It bears its name, since it will surely fight more on its own against greenhouse gas emissions by blocking the Suez Canal than this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u202	Not at all, the boats go around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u203	So yes, our concern would justify voting on this motion to reject. However, we believe that we must take note of the urgency of the ecological crisis, so let the debate take place. We will therefore reject this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u205	Thank you for citing the beautiful town of Quimperlé!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u206	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u207	This bill is pretending. But when it comes to climate, it is no longer time! The year 2020 has been one of the warmest three years since we were able to raise temperatures, while the covid-19 has greatly reduced production and the El Niño phenomenon, in the Pacific Ocean, was in a cold year. In the explanatory memorandum, you state that the implementation of the measures contained in this bill will not be sufficient to meet the targets set by France for 2030. That only confession should be enough to close the ban, but no, you decided to pretend. You are pretending to adapt the measures resulting from the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, and 113 have been abandoned, or 76%, and the 46 that you propose to adopt are not in conformity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u208	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u209	In fact, the 150 members awarded you a rating of 3.3 out of 10. You will tell me that this remains lower than the rise in temperatures by the end of the century, according to the forecasts of Météo France in February: from 3.9 to 6 degrees centigrade, if nothing is done, that is roughly what you propose. You have rebutted all the structural reforms proposed by the Citizens' Convention: taxation of dividends, 5G moratorium, ban on advertising for polluting products. Many of your proposals are vague,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u210	You don't have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u211	You did not hear Mr Mélenchon's speech: no proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u212	... intended to be applied very late, or experimental in nature, such as vegetarian meals in canteens. In fact, most municipalities have already tried it, without waiting for your bill. You go so far as to have the law on ecocides receded. Indeed, you are proposing to introduce a condition of intentionality, which is notoriously difficult to prove. You don't offer any tools, nothing about free trade or public service. It is true, Madam Minister, that your department undergoes the largest purges of all departments in terms of full-time equivalents (FTEs), with 5,291 positions abolished since 2017, plus those abolished by its many operators, so it is difficult to believe that the subject is as fundamental to you as you say.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u213	Is that your only argument?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u214	For now, we have only escaped the Hercule project, which tends to dismantle EDF. You originally planned to include it in this bill, but fortunately, the mobilization spared us. In climate matters, as in epidemic matters, you're pretending. The results are shown in the health field; I very much fear that they will also be seen, in the form of an increase in temperatures, if your bill is the only one passed in the years to come. Last weekend, 110,000 demonstrators called the MPs to ask for their intentions. We will not participate in the development of your trompe - l'oeil: we do not agree to pretend in the climate field. You object to Mr Mélenchon that we would be alone in opposing your text; I would point out that 500 organizations have called for demonstrations, some of which you have belonged to in the past. They find your text inadequate and note it even more severely than the 150 citizens, since they give it 2.5 out of 10. That's what your law is worth. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We have tabled amendments to implement concrete measures; You've met them all. We will wait until we come to power in 2022 to implement the proposals contained in the issue of the Common Future Papers on Ecological Planning, which I advise you to read: you will find there the reforms that the climate situation requires.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u215	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u216	I address myself to the whole majority, but especially to Mrs Motin: she alone had the courage to evoke capitalism in this beginning of debate. Our conviction, what do you want, is that capitalism cannot be virtuous, neither for men, nor for nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u217	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u218	Let me say a little solemnity about the tragic news: the 6500 deaths in Qatar's huge eco-cidal yards, destined to prepare for the 2022 World Cup.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u219	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u220	This oil state is also a shareholder of the Lagardère, Accor, Total, Vinci and LVMH groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u221	How many people died in Siberia?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u222	Oh, there, what a level!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u223	As long as you persist in the logic that aims to maintain the domination of an economic system that you refuse to scratch, we will not succeed in embarking on the ecological and solidarity transition that so many millions of French people want to know. How can I put an end to the terrible tragedy I just mentioned? Make the culprits very expensive. Enter in the text the levy on dividends claimed by the Citizens' Convention. Emmanuel Macron offered the privileged this joker incompatible with the ecological and citizen transition. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The system that you defend is at the root of the tragic circumstances that humans and nature face every day. We shall therefore vote on the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u224	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u225	Yesterday, France insoubted marched through the streets to call for the fight against global warming;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u226	Yes, we show!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u227	... today, his MPs defend a motion to reject the bill that aims to accelerate this struggle. Political absurdity has no limits. I would have preferred to debate with you rather than respond to your motion, if you had been more diligent during the twelve days that the examination of the text in committee took. This would have made you aware of the main advances contained in the text. It contains proposals put forward by the Citizens' Convention. It contains powerful measures: guidelines for ecological planning, strengthening environmental criteria in public procurement, combating the artificialisation of the soil, prohibiting the leasing of thermal colanders, the transition of land and air transport, strengthening judicial powers and sanctions against illegal gold mining. The bill also proposes concrete tools for mayors and local authorities to preserve air quality in urban areas, frame light advertising and promote virtuous land development, an objective integrated with planning documents. It contains measures and indicators to better inform consumers and encourage change, such as Eco-score or DPE. Punitive ecology is not effective. There is a path between those for whom no measure is effective, and those who would never want anything to evolve. We embody this choice of a middle path of common sense. We do not take back the injunction, which some political parties have made an annuity for; We do not advocate the ecology of decay...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u228	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u229	...that defend those who want to nail the planes to the ground, and weep at the destroyed jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u230	Amish?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u231	The truth is that the ecological transformation of the country is in progress. We act at all levels; Our climate record will be historic. Last week, we adopted the principle of reform of Article 1 of the Constitution; This week, we are considering this bill in the House; in the European Parliament, our colleagues in the Renaissance Group are voting for a carbon adjustment at the borders of the European Union; the President of the Republic receives at the Élysée John Kerry, who came to salute the French commitment to the climate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are at the forefront of the ecological transition in France, in Europe and internationally, and this text is one of the milestones of our policy. We will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u232	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u233	Mr. Mélenchon took time to explain his position. That is normal, because we did not have much in committee: we had to adapt constantly to a system of rewriting articles unworthy of a republican debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u234	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u235	Mrs Lebec, politically, I don't necessarily have much in common with Mr Mélenchon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u236	I heard it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u237	... but you cannot blame him for not attending the meetings of the special commission, when he is not a member of it. The debate must take place. Mr Mélenchon, many of us share your observation that the planet is not well, that it is damaged. Like you, I believe that we must set ourselves the goal of leaving to succeeding generations a more virtuous and sustainable Earth. Nevertheless, and I am sorry, I do not agree on the choice of way to achieve these objectives. I do not think that the company is a problem: I think it is a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u238	Yes, but the company is not capitalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u239	Mr Wulfranc, if the companies you mentioned in referring to Qatar were to build stadiums in France, they would abide by French law. The problem is therefore not the responsibility of the enterprises, but of the State in which they work. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you can see, there are different options, and we need to be able to discuss them in the coming weeks. It is therefore to leave its place in the debate that the Republicans will abstain from voting on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u240	What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u241	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u242	By proposing that this text be rejected in advance, the Group of France refuses to allow a conclusion to be reached on an unprecedented democratic process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u243	To better criticize us behind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u244	Indeed, it refuses that the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects, which is nothing other than the legislative translation of the will of the 150 members of the Citizen's Convention for Climate, will come to light. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] On the pretext of a so-called lack of ambition of the text, the insoumis refuse to adopt major advances: they refuse the introduction of a "carbon score", the ban on the sale of polluting vehicles in 2030, the renovation of thermal colanders by 2028, and low-emission areas in cities. They refuse to favour train journeys rather than those by plane, they refuse the drastic reduction of the artificialisation of the soil, the improvement of the quality of meals in the canteens, the creation of an offence of ecocide, and so on! By proposing to reject this text even before discussing it, Mr Mélenchon and the insoumis despise the citizens who have been involved in this work – whether they have been members of the convention or not, by the way. They also despise the thousands of people who marched on the streets yesterday, and who are waiting for strong climate measures, because this bill provides them with concrete answers. Moreover – and perhaps the most serious – they despise the parliamentary debate, which must make it possible to further improve the text, to give it both more ambition and finesse, in order to best meet the needs of the French, guaranteeing the full and complete acceptability of the measures it provides for. [[BrouhahaetriressurlesbancsoftheFIgroup]] Unsubs dream of a National Assembly without democratic mix, in which they could choose who has the right to speak, and of what:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u245	You had to dare that one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u246	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] "Colleges! You will have the right to debate only when the text suits us! In the meantime, shut up! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u247	The show halls have reopened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u248	This is the message sent by the unsubstantiated with this motion of rejection. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You will have understood, dear President, that is not our vision of democratic debate, and that is why we will vote against your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u249	Another one, another one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u250	The Republic, it's him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u251	It's beautiful, the shade!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u252	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u253	The bill was to be the quinquennium's major climate bill. But from shrinking to shrinking, from disappointment to disappointment, from renunciation to renunciation, it gradually turns into a great disenchantment. Lack of readability, coherence and social support: the great climate transition to be achieved requires more justice, a sine qua non condition for moving towards a less carbonised society. The consequences of global warming will be as clear and imaginable as the forecasts you all know. Human flows will be the first to be affected, with an increasing number of climate refugees. While we are already unable, today, to receive many exiles with dignity, will our country afford itself the means to reach out tomorrow? The consequences of global warming on natural environments will obviously be heavy, affecting biodiversity and, as you know, resulting in impacts on drinking water production, tourism and agriculture – we discussed earlier. All climate disasters will not only have a considerable human cost, but also a huge economic cost. Two major professional federations, the French Banking Federation (FBF) and the French Insurance Federation (FFA), are trying to calculate it: the French Insurance Federation estimates it to be almost 100 billion euros between 2014 and 2039, an increase of 90% compared to the period 1988-2013. This cost could be even higher if disaster reduction measures were not put in place. Madam Minister, will this text ensure compliance with the Paris agreements, which aim to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees and to comply with the national low-carbon strategy? In our view, the answer is no. A few weeks ago, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – warned you: "While the annual rate of emission reductions should be tripled and divided by six by 2050, measures often appear to be limited, delayed, or subject to conditions such that their near-term implementation is uncertain. » The High Council for the Climate also alerted you, again referring to too limited scopes of application and too long deadlines for implementation, as did the citizens of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, who showed their disappointment by giving the bill a note of 2.5 out of 10. Finally, the various non-governmental organisations – NGOs – and the citizens alerted you, no later than yesterday afternoon, by going down peacefully on the streets to express their expectations, but also their dissatisfaction with the proposed text. However, I heard just a moment ago an ongoing satisfaction: after all the reservations expressed by the various institutions, independent bodies and councils, how can you still talk about "great ambitions"? I also regret that, in the face of inadmissibility, unfortunately you have not heard our proposals in the special committee. However, we have formulated many of them, whether in terms of rail transport, river freight, digital sobriety, forest management or food waste. All these reasons prompt us today to call for a fairer text and to vote in favour of the motion to reject it. Indeed, all the measures you propose in this text will come into force only at a very distant date, often beyond 2022. Rather than adopting a flawed text, let us take advantage of the moment to collectively rework this great project of society which you also called for: offer social support worthy of this name, a genuine obligation for the overall renovation of housing, the introduction of a zero-rate loan coupled with a zero-charge leftover for the purchase of a vehicle that emits little greenhouse gas, the application of a reduced VAT for local products and public transport. We have proposed all this, but you have not retained it. Why did you abandon the introduction of a dividend tax, even though it could have been the basis of justice for the success of this great transition project? Let us take advantage of this text to launch a new green industrial era and create jobs in the territories, in connection with short circuits and solidarity. Let us give meaning to our lives through a great objective of preserving our natural heritage, over which France must exercise its sovereignty. Let us be responsible: this text must preserve future generations, and we cannot put back to tomorrow the efforts that must be made today, so let us work on environmental references and the introduction of a crime of ecocide. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] What world do we want to leave to succeeding generations? The central road, which was recalled earlier by our colleagues of the majority, is cruelly under-ambitious: hear the legitimate concerns and the mobilization of the thousands of our fellow citizens who walked all over France yesterday. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that "we do not inherit the land of our ancestors, we borrow it from our children. » Let's work to make the text more ambitious: propose a bill that meets the challenges, propose a real climate law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u254	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u255	The intention behind this rejection motion is clearly to deprive ecology and the French not only of a historical law, but also of a democratic debate. In short, democracy is required to remain silent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u256	You have limited speaking time and rejected all our amendments, and you call that democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u257	Looks like it's fashionable! Mr Mélenchon, there was a time when democracy, not ego, was sacred to the members of this House. Only people change, and not always in the right direction, until sometimes they become the caricature of themselves. It is a sad spectacle that this motion for those who defend both ecology and representative democracy; for the French, too, who see their ecological aspirations taken hostage by adventures and pseudo-revolutionary personal soliloques.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u258	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u259	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We can only hope that the curtain will fall on this sad spectacle, which is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u260	Bravo, that was great! Again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u261	That's raising the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u262	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u263	Like all of you, I listened carefully to Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who considered the Climate and Resilience Bill insufficient. He noted shortcomings or even failures that can be shared. He also took the time to address several issues: thirty-five minutes of intervention to discuss the water cycle, rising waters in the oceans, climate migration, bilateral free trade agreements with Canada – CETA – and Mercosur, respectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u264	Write it down, write it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u265	... but also the €3 billion missing from rail every year and the need to abolish advertising for polluting products. He even cited the example of glyphosate, going so far as to say that the glyphosate had to be removed because the engineers were ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u266	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u267	You don't lack air, Mr. Mélenchon, you really don't doubt anything! Of course engineers are ready, only this is not the case for all farmers. I regret, Mr. Mélenchon, that your thirty-five-minute argument is essentially devoted to the denunciation of certain facts and shortcomings of the bill, to the detriment of any alternative proposal, since you have made very few of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u268	But the proposals are in our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u269	Let us take the example of glyphosate – to name but one: the whole issue of this bill is the completion of transitions, and their temporality. But I think – like 66 million of our compatriots – that in France as in the world, everyone has to take their part. There are no doubt that there are gaps in the text: personally, I would like us to go much further in the field of paper advertising, or not just to limit the number of square metres of large areas, but to ban them completely for several years – we will probably debate them this week. But there are emergencies, and two facts on the international scene show us that every country in the world must act on climate issues: the container ship blocked in the Suez Canal, a real symbol of the human giantism and ecological footprint that it leaves on the planet, and the explosion in a refinery on Java Island, Indonesia. A collective awareness of the ecological footprint of human activity is more necessary than ever, and the text presented today probably does not go far enough. However, I remember very well what happened ten years ago, under another majority. When Jean-Louis Borloo presented the laws resulting from the Grenelle de l'Environnement, everyone agreed with the concept, ideas, strategic orientations. The Grenelle I Act was even passed almost unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u270	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u271	But when it came to moving on to practical work – especially in the area of taxation, with the carbon tax and the ecotax – there was no one on the ground anymore, it was very complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u272	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u273	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Today, we are expected: it is up to us to succeed in moving from a conceptual ecology to a so-called operational ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u274	At least he respects his opponents!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u275	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u276	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 91 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 18 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u277	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u278	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u279	In the general debate, Mr François-Michel Lambert spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u280	Since the beginning of the presidential term, the texts have continued. They are supposed to lead to the law of the last chance, to the most important law of the quinquennium. They concern mobility, energy, climate, and the circular economy, but all have the same ambition: to cope with the ecological emergency. Yet, behind these political slogans, what really is there? Some good measures, sometimes; a lack of resources, often; the desire that the response to climate change remain relegated to the periphery of public policies. To my great regret, this bill is in line with previous legislation: it does not meet the climate challenge. Besides, I'm not the only one who says it. The 150 citizens who started it, who have been involved in this work and made them aware of these issues for almost nine months, have been able to identify the sectors essential to the ecological transition, and to make proposals to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Nevertheless, probably due to lack of time, training, knowledge, they left out some questions. We expected the Government to fill these loopholes, to raise that ambition where it was lacking. I said it in committee, and I repeat it here: this text is ultimately built only on shaky foundations. France earns nearly 200,000 inhabitants every year – the equivalent of the Gers population, our dear rapporteur-general. The time of a quinquennium or a legislature, it gives 1 million people, more than it is in the city of Marseille. This population growth and its consequences for spatial planning are the great absences of your assumption: their consideration will therefore be lacking when action is required. Nothing has been planned to restore the balance between territories, to limit the mobility constraints. However, we will be able to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases emitted by transport, by consumption, only if we rethink the city and the territories, bring together workplaces and places of life, places of socialisation and places of production, and give priority to short circuits. Logistics, too, is to the absent subscribers, despite our poor performance in this field: according to the World Bank, France ranks eighth among the European countries, sixteenth in the absolute. This means that mobility is disorderly, with negative consequences for both the environment and the economy: this logistical underperformance costs us 60 billion euros each year and about 10 million tonnes of CO. The very symbol of this waste, but also of globalization, is the EverGiven, the container carrier of Evergreen Marine Corporation. This one finally bears his name. By obstructing the Suez Canal, its cargo will have reduced greenhouse gas emissions more than any of your measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u281	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u282	Above all, he has demonstrated the need to rethink our system in depth. We must start the ecological transformation that will lead to a new development model. Another major forgotten: environmental taxation. You're giving us an appointment on the occasion of the finance bill, but I'm afraid this is not a meeting. However, environmental taxation is an essential lever of ecological transformation. As for the fight against plastic pollution and the fight against water conservation, two major challenges for the coming decades, they are only subject to residual measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u283	They're not interested!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u284	Beyond these original flaws, I regret that the presidential promise of the "without filter" has not been fulfilled. As a result of some of the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention and the avoidance of others, the Government has considerably reduced the scope of the bill. Too many measures are thus limited to experiments, subject to substantial derogations or even are not normative. Article 12 is an example of this: it provides that re-use delivery devices may be used for glass packagings in an experimental setting. First, this is already the case; Then it doesn't make any progress! Another example, article 35 states that the State will set itself the objective of ensuring that air transport achieves a sufficient carbon price from 2025 – what a goal! These provisions help to make the bill talkative, illegible and complex. Worse, they suggest that you act while in reality you choose the status quo. Other measures, which are also part of the communication, set out new principles but do not advance the climate cause. The ban on heated terraces? A measuring device that will probably make you talk; That's a good example. We could and should have talked – and we will – about recreational jet skis in the summer off the fort of Brégançon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u285	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u286	Similarly, you claim to prevent the construction and expansion of new airports on metropolitan territory. In practice, only works requiring a declaration of public utility will be covered, which concerns a small minority of airports. Finally, articles in the text might even, according to some observers, reflect a decline in environmental ambition. Thus, some consider that making labels C or D eligible for a renovation that improves energy performance would skew policy in this area. As for the crime of ecocide, it will only make sense if it is accompanied by an extraterritoriality of our right. In other words, we cannot risk that the hardening of our legislative framework will encourage industrialists to move elsewhere. Delocalisation of pollution is not a solution, it is even a danger. We will have a major event on this subject: making the crime of ecocide extraterritorial. I also want to point out a method problem. You impose, with this text, a descending and centralizing vision of ecology. In the Liberties and Territories Group, on the contrary, we are convinced that environmental ambition must be pursued and embodied in the territories. To that end, local elected officials, engulfed in Jupitian centralism, must be given the means to implement a policy adapted to their local realities. That is not the choice you made with this bill, which imposes national solutions decorated with local realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u287	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u288	Yes, sir, the rapporteur-general! Your approach to soil artificialization is thus revealing. The members of the Citizens' Climate Convention want to put an end to all-va concreteization, and we share this objective. But by forcing to divide by two the consumption of space, regardless of the territory...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u289	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u290	... you ignore the demographic dynamics that I mentioned earlier and the 200000 new inhabitants that France welcomes every year. You thus expose our fellow citizens to the risk of a housing crisis – and indeed, to a likely failure of our common objective. Finally, I regret the conditions under which we are considering this text. The two weeks of committee review, including the weekend, did not even leave us an hour per article. The scheduled legislative time will barely allow us to discuss the subjects in greater depth. Only 45 hours are being mobilised to discuss the solutions to be implemented to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and to meet the challenge of the century – 45 hours in the Chamber! Who would have thought that the climate emergency would result not in more ambitious measures, but in an acceleration of legislative time and an urgent decision? Is parliamentary democracy worth less than the democracy of 150 people drawn by lot?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u291	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u292	Despite the difficult conditions for reviewing this bill, we will defend our proposals. Above all, we will carry our ambition of ecological transformation to put at the heart of our national project a hope and resilience, to build the world after and finally to believe in our territories and to empower them to act for the benefit of our fellow citizens and future generations. That is the ambition of the Libertés et territoires group. We'll meet you in three weeks' time and raise this ambition to go beyond the framework in which you impose the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u293	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u294	Take down this castle of cards, Mrs. Panot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u295	Minister, colleagues, today marks the end of your democratic masquerade. Today the trial of your ecological policy begins. Since 2017, you've wanted to put environmental activists, trade unionists and yellow vests in the shade. Now it's your turn to be judged on your actions! The list of charges is endless. Your first mistake is the fattening of the rich in organized tape. In 2018, you removed the solidarity tax on wealth. The rich man wasn't rich enough for you. The preliminary investigation is without appeal: you always don't know that the rich get richer, the more they own, the more they pollute.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u296	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u297	If that was your goal, bingo: France is the country where the fortune of billionaires has grown the most, winning 45% between 2019 and 2020. On the other hand, we will see later for the runoff, because our country still has 10 million poor people. With this removal, you returned 4 billion euros to the oligarchy, the same amount you wanted to recover with the carbon tax. This is how it is necessary to understand the power of the yellow vest movement that has crossed the roundabouts and the streets. They chanted it everywhere: no ecology without social justice! When people have no choice but to take the car to get around, it's still up to them that you're going to look for drownings, rather than Total. This magnificent popular burst reminded us of what we are viscerally: a revolutionary homeland. The yellow vests have revived the desire for a society of solidarity and sharing. I address to them a fraternal greeting: to the scorned, crippled, gassed, bataque, imprisoned, condemned, to those who have seen the repression on their bodies fall, to all the broken mouths of macroism mated in turn for demanding a more just world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u298	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u299	The challenge resumed its breath at the time of your infamous attempt to reform pensions. Here again, your narrow accounting spirit...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u300	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u301	...had not realized that this was an anti-ecological policy. You wanted us to work longer, that is, to produce more and more unnecessary and undesirable goods, exported all over the world, thus aggravating our greenhouse gas emissions. Your software based on infinite growth is archaic. You have to learn that our planet and the living have their physical limits, just like human beings, who do not dream of working to the threshold of their death. With this reform, you wanted to destroy the free time spent outside the market. You were finishing the homo model? Conomicus at a time when it is unbearable. You were nullifying our intergenerational capabilities of collective resistance to climate chaos, while our survival conditions are based on mutual aid. It even seems that you want to put this reform back on the table to pay for the crisis of the Covid-19. I am sure that would be an aggravating circumstance. We come to the second count: batoning, gassing and aggravated repression. Emmanuel Macron said in June 2019, to the youth climate movement: "I need one thing, it's that you make life impossible for us the leaders. I need these movements, these indignations. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u302	Yeah, he said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u303	What he forgot to say to the young people is the singular way he was going to answer them, which could be summed up in a famous sentence of the Prefect Lallement about the yellow vests, pronounced on December 8, 2018: "Go straight, don't hesitate to hit it. It'll make the next ones think. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u304	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u305	They were battled and gassed, sometimes even for no apparent reason, as were the Extinction Rebellion activists on the bridge of Sully in Paris, on 28 June 2019, when they were perfectly peaceful. Repression without distinction, as for this journalist from Reporterre placed ten hours in police custody on 26 June 2019 for covering an environmental action at Orly airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u306	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u307	Criminalization all azimuts, as with these hundreds of lawsuits brought against Macron's portrait dropouts or as with anti-agrobusiness activists for which you specifically inaugurated, in December 2019, the Demeter Intelligence Unit...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u308	Down with the crackdown!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u309	... or anti-nuclear activists who are fighting against the burial of nuclear waste and soil poisoning for generations, in Bure, for whom you have taken out the anti-terrorist arsenal and spent a million euros on the investigation that is targeting them. What do they have in common? They can't take it anymore from the ecology of small steps and your guilty inaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u310	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u311	Isn't that a good reason to hit them cheerfully? Let's turn to the third count: smoke in a meeting, the one on which your recidivism rate is highest. It is enough to replace words with other words: "ecology of concrete" for "ecology of the touillette", "ecology of progress" for "ecology that leaves polluters alone".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u312	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u313	The Citizens' Convention for the Climate has for its part rendered its judgment; This is the mediocre score of 2.5 out of 10 that its members gave to your text, which itself disclaimed on all sides. Do you know where some of those citizens were yesterday? They were on the street demanding a real climate law. One can recognize you a talent, that of raising without too much effort the great number against you. The High Climate Council, the National Council for Nature Protection (CNPN), the EESC, about 100 civil society organisations and the tide of young people marching through the streets on Sunday... All of us no longer know what language to say: your bill is insufficient. You are telling us in your defence, minister, that we must look at your entire record. All right, all right, all I concede this argument to the opposing party. Let's see: red carpet and band for Amazon and its warehouses; the return of neonicotinoids, which it is easier to ban than to pronounce; no prohibition of glyphosate; free trade treaties to gogo; public aid granted to polluting multinationals without compensation; Forward flight into nuclear power; abolition of aid for organic farming; authorisation of factory farms; motorway bypasses; France condemned for air pollution; destruction of the staff of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and public operators such as the National Forestry Board...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u314	Implacable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u315	Frankly, are you sure about your defence strategy, Madam Minister? You even get tired of your own agents, who are not fooled by your little maneuvers. I quote one of them: "I made a burn-out. Not the one where we work too much. No, you think, ecology under Macron! No, a burn-out of meaninglessness in my work. I wanted to talk about permaculture, collapsology and local resilience; I am asked to shake hands, to rejoice at the cups that replace the plastic cups and to organize the stage of the Tour de France of the objectives of sustainable development in my region. The unions in your ministry even have a word for this: "verbal inaction." I heard you yesterday, Mrs Pompili, saying that we had to continue fighting, to continue, not to give up. They would have to be lifted again, if only to tell the lobby to keep quiet. This is your fourth count, the conflict of interest. While we should be guided by the general interest, you are the ventriloquists of private interests and that is how you wrote a text that bases our destiny on the good will of the multinationals: you tell them that they can, without being obliged, but that it would still be good for them to make a little effort, because it will be mandatory in 2065, and you kindly ask them to be nice and not to pollute too much. The ecology of caress has not proved its worth anywhere! What we need is a clear break with our production and consumption patterns that have gone crazy. The pandemic is the most obvious demonstration of this: what we are going through is a crisis on the ecological border. Deforestation, intensive farming and livestock, illegal trade in wild animals: the persistence of these practices assures us that we are only entering the age of pandemics. We have to get out of this mess. This is what we call ecological and solidarity bifurcation. The destruction of our ecosystems, the permanent aggression of the consumer society, the creation of frustration in order to turn the consumption machine: all this must come to an end. We must "disaggregate". What do we really need? This is the issue that fundamentally endangers your entire Liberal edifice. You know, no one would cry about the disappearance of bright billboards or the end of ads for the SUVs. On the other hand, our fellow citizens complain about the polluted air they breathe and make their children breathe, they worry about the quality of food and water they consume. You tremble when it comes to forcing multinationals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u316	Yes, they're shaking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u317	...but you are indifferent to the idea that our overseas compatriots sometimes have no access to drinking water. Forty-four schools have had to close since the beginning of Guadeloupe, for lack of teachers, who would be absent or ill, but of access to water! In order to achieve the ecological and solidarity bifurcation, we must start from the basic needs of the people. For this, we have a method: planning. Re-appropriating time, making access to water an inalienable right, making our forests common goods, not taking on more nature than it can re-establish are goals that the nation could set itself. It is to be believed that you are not interested in these matters: most of our amendments on forest or water have been rejected, allegedly because they had no relation to the text. So, water, forests would have nothing to do with a law to combat climate change and build resilience in the face of its effects: balivers! We will therefore not be able to discuss the prohibition of razed cuts that release part of the carbon contained in the soil and destroy biodiversity, nor of the National Forestry Office, an indispensable public service which is responsible for our public forests and which you are hastening to privatize. Nor will we talk about the establishment of public water authorities to preserve the resource at a time when it is scarce. Nothing to do with the climate, you say! You are constantly talking about the social acceptability of these measures, but this nonsense no longer deceives anyone, it is rather the governmental acceptability that has something to hit! You have scathed the measures of the Citizens' Convention; you rejected in packs of one hundred the amendments that were trying to improve your text a little bit;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u318	That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u319	...you have activated the scheduled legislative time to better muzzle the opposition. I'm telling you without a filter: this democratic scam has lasted long enough! It's on the back of our collective future. This brings me to the fifth count: the attack on future generations. You do not share the feeling of urgency in the face of the climate chaos that is coming, but the world that is coming will make you understand it at all costs, willingly or forcefully: the young people for the climate, the yellow vests, the environmental activists, the youth to whom you steal its future. The people will always rise up against the money powers and their political representatives. He won't let you persevere in your guilty inaction. We are the movement of this hope, that of popular power based on the interests of the social majority of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u320	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u321	Such power can only be ecological. We have only one haste, to turn the page of your irresponsibility, to make your reign an accident of history and especially a bad memory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u322	All right! Mrs Panot has definitely dealt with the problem by confronting Mrs Pompili with her unfounded accusations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u323	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u324	That's what this bill calls a rebuttal. In the first place, there is nowhere to be seen as the essential issue of employment. Vocational training is not subject to any major provisions, while tomorrow's trades call for a robust financial commitment in this area – let us think, for example, of changes in the transport or construction industry. The only measure to be noted is the Social and Economic Committees (ESCs): already reduced to the acquests after your offensive against the Committees on Health, Safety and Working Conditions (CHSCT), they will be emboldened more by the vague consultation on the effects of the company's activity on the environment that you anticipate. As for the addition of additional staff to the functional commissions, it was also far from the reality of the social field. This is a culpable failure of your project, because everyone knows that the issue of securing employment and employee rights cannot be decoupled from a just and progressive ecological transition. This law claims to complete your sectoral policies, all of which have been marked by the retreat of the strategist state and its structuring tools to lead a social and ecological transition. Let's take the energy first. This major issue is dealt with outside of this debate, outside the French: you are opening up to private capital the renewable energy activities and the distribution branch of EDF. Our industrial and agricultural framework is profoundly weakened: the laissez-faire granted to banks and CAC 40 groups that relocate and detonate their CO emissions as the laissez-passer encouraged by the free trade agreements organising social and environmental dumping lead it to an impasse. It is the great move out of the national territory that precaises employees, small farmers and increasingly maligns natural resources. With regard to mobility, you have delivered the national transport company, SNCF, to competition, opening a rail battle with suicidal consequences for users and for the climate, aggravated by the absence of a long-term massive investment plan in the railway.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u325	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u326	Social housing, for which 70% of the French are eligible, has been drained by financial punctures similar to a real racket, while its actors have demonstrated their commitment to thermal renewal. That is the context of your bill. As you claim, this is a pragmatic Liberal that you are always on the lookout for new markets to be opened. Bruno The Mayor must be the most happy of the ministers. You do not foresee regulation, no counterpart other than the goodwill of companies because, for you, it is the consumer who must be held accountable and therefore guilty. So, what's left of your bill? Anecdotal measurements. You want to remove planes towing ads while it's a consolidated tax on first class tickets that should be discussed. You are considering setting up a draw by lot of users to sit on collective transport line committees when it comes to setting up a reduced VAT rate of 5.5% on train tickets as the user associations demand. What is still in your text? These are experiments that are superimposed on others: you want to ban the distribution of advertisements on paper at home with a "Yes ad" device added to "Stop ad", while it is a rigorous and independent framing of the advertising lobbies that should be imposed in the media. It is the introduction of daily vegetarian menus in schools, while weekly experimentation, which is still under discussion, cannot be evaluated and financial, technical and human support for communities should be strengthened to ensure a qualitative food leap. It is still the transmission by the state of a few hot potatoes to local elected officials: why impose a police of windows on traders and save the energy-saving supports that proliferate? Why increase the use of heavy paid urban planning studies without accompanying them with technical assistance or state financial aid? Even more serious, there are no plans to accompany households: no zero-rate loans for low-income households to buy a cleaner car, no revision of SNCF's national social pricing to make it more attractive, no zero-cost loans for the thermal rehabilitation of housing for modest or very modest owner-occupiers, no financial support for quality food for all. Finally, let us mention all these major commitments truncated or deferred: the prohibition on renting thermal coffers is postponed to 2028 without any pre-emptive obligation for the owners indelicates; the end of the tax advantage for heavy goods vehicles is planned for 2030 without any immediate measures re-establishing any equity with rail freight; the ban on advertising is limited to fossil fuels, whereas it should be extended to the most polluting finished products; The ban on the installation of commercial surfaces on the periphery concerns only those of 10000 square meters, an extensive criterion which is totally ineffective when, in order to effectively combat the artificialisation of the soil and preserve small shops of proximity, e-commerce should be tackled. Finally, we are considering a bill decapitated from the strong proposals of the Citizens' Convention, constantly rewritten by the Government and its majority, under the minimum light of precipitated flash missions, redacted from any amendment relating to strong social and ecological ambitions, the means to be deployed to reach them and amputated from any debate concerning them. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In these circumstances, the deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left engage in the discussion with the firm intention of obstructing the provisions of this law which would create social or ecological disruptions or would accentuate those which are already raging in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u327	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u328	After eleven days and ninety-six hours of debate in committee, we discuss in open session the consideration of this bill from the Citizen's Climate Convention. Its members did their job by issuing proposals, which could not all be integrated because some were in the regulatory field. The rapporteurs did their part: they allowed, in a time forced, after tens of hours of hearings, to improve and enrich this text. We Members of Parliament have done our work as parliamentarians. We are not mere mailboxes and I regret that some colleagues have argued for a "filterless" resumption of the recommendations of the citizens' convention. Its members themselves stressed that they did not have impact assessments and could not conduct hearings to formulate them. This bill is to be viewed from a global perspective, consistent with other actions of the majority that I would like to recall here. First of all, the EGALIM law, the "hydrocarbons" law, the energy-climate law, the anti-spousal law for a circular economy (AGEC), the mobility guidance law (LOM) and the ELAN law. Another notable step to remember: France was the first country in the world to carry out an environmental assessment of its entire budget. It should also be noted that 30% of the financing of the recovery plan is directed towards the ecological transition. The draft constitutional law, which we recently adopted at first reading, also has a great ambition: to supplement Article 1 of the Constitution in order to definitively secure the constitutional value of preserving the environment and biodiversity and combating climate change. The Climate and Resilience Bill, therefore, complements and strengthens mechanisms that we have already been able to measure the effects of. Let me recall a few of them, since some here seem to have the short memory: the decrease in the share of diesel vehicles in total vehicles sold, from 70 per cent just over eight years ago to 33 per cent today; the reduction of the fleet to the benefit of public transport; the environmental regulation 2020 (RE2020), directly resulting from the ELAN law, which promotes a new construction model taking into account bio-sourced materials, greenhouse gases and the environmental impact of construction throughout the building's life cycle. Let us also mention the path that will lead to the end of single-use plastics. I could also talk about the creation of the polluter pays sectors, an acquis of the AGEC law, or that of the High Council for Climate, decided by our majority in the law of energy and climate. It is also our majority that has gradually transformed the Energy Transition Tax Credit (ISTC) into a bonus, through the MaPrimeRenov' – the victim of its success, with more than 140,000 files validated last year. Let us not forget the premium for the conversion of vehicles: more than one million polluting vehicles will be put out of circulation by the end of this quinquennium, thanks to the introduction of an aid that allows the weakest, the poorest, to respond to the challenges of the ecological transition. I stop here because the list is still long: we can all be proud, ladies and gentlemen, of the work we have done. If this climate law is indispensable, it is also because all French and French people have become aware of the issues related to the climate and the environment. We are witnessing a remarkable change of model. That is why our majority chose to give visibility and readability to its decisions, and above all to draw new trajectories. Many of you, in this House, are defending a different vision of what to do, between those who want to ban everything, right away, despite the dramatic consequences that it would involve both human and social, and those who want to act well but prefer to wait, so as not to change methods too quickly. As Albert Einstein would say: always doing the same thing and expecting different results is madness! This bill will allow us to better support and inform consumers, through the provisions of Title I, or to make institutions exemplary in environmental matters, through public procurement, among other things. France will be the only European country to fight energy colanders by banning them from 2028 and to promote clean mobility, by deciding the end of vehicles that use fossil energy. The bill will promote healthy and sustainable eating, in line with the provisions of the EQUALIM Act. Finally, it will provide the necessary legal tools to ensure respect for the preservation and protection of the environment by punishing, as appropriate, any offence or offence in this field. Nor do I forget the reform of the mining code, long awaited for years by our fellow citizens and the actors concerned. Finally, I welcome the intention of the bill to better involve local and regional authorities. Through its action in favour of the environment and against climate change, France wants to be a pioneer and a leader. That is why it will make the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in the first half of 2022, a major meeting to extend, at European level, the fight against climate change, through various mechanisms: the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, the closure of the European market to products resulting from deforestation, the increase in the price of carbon through the strengthening of the European carbon market. No, the majority does not have to be ashamed of its action in favour of the ecological transition, on the contrary! Through this bill, it confirms its commitment to a positive, pragmatic and constructive ecology. I invite you to listen to the hearing of Pascal Canfin, chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety in the European Parliament, by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning. He pointed out that France was at the forefront with regard to the prohibition on the rental of thermal colanders from 2028 onwards, a pioneer in regulating the advertising of the most polluting products, a precursor, with Austria, with regard to the abolition of short-haul flights where an alternative train existed. The latter measure was welcomed by the German Greens – a reference on the European political scene – who asked the Bundestag to draw inspiration from the French example. Who could have imagined that a few years ago? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is my state of mind for the coming weeks. Let us collectively rise to the ecological challenge that we must face, in the continuity of the Paris Agreement, by confirming our ability to be a force for proposals on the Green Pact for Europe – European Green deal. Our action must not simply provide for the future but, above all, allow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u329	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u330	We are here in the Chamber, after two weeks of intense work in the Special Committee, to discuss a cause that is mobilising us all: the battle against climate change. This issue is of interest to all Members of the Republican Group, whether or not they are members of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, which could have considered this bill itself. Climate change is even more significant and personal for those of us who work on the land, whether it is the winemaker of Arbois that I am or the breeder of the Cantal which is our colleague Jean-Yves Bony; climate change is a concrete reality that we observe every day. Respect for nature and the concern to protect it are old commitments of our political family; They even form his DNA. Thus, in 1971, the Gaullist Robert Poujade was the first of the ministers of the environment, under the authority of President Georges Pompidou, before René Dumont, the minister, to take bold measures such as the creation of the Conservatoire du littoral, to name but one. It was a first base, on which the presidents Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy would later build. I am thinking, for example, of the Environment Charter, which is set out in the preamble to the Constitution, or of the Grenelle de l'Environnement. Unfortunately, their successors will not be able to argue against such a balance sheet, as communication has often taken precedence over action. Not daring to get out of ambiguity, for fear of displeasing, they did not have the courage to decide between two major irreconcilable philosophical lines: the decline, which we strongly reject, and the green and sustainable growth that we defend. In recent years, this number of permanent balancers has been reflected in the multiplication of display texts: the EGALIM Act, the ELAN Act, the Energy and Climate Act, the Mobility Orientation Act, the Circular Economy Act and, tomorrow, the possible amendment of the Constitution. These texts add up, contradict each other, overlap each other. For what results? While the provisions of these Acts are not yet in force, we are already being asked to consider a new bill. What an admission of failure! In this regard, the discussions in the Committee have been revealing. What can we take stock of this after twenty-nine meetings of the special committee? The main subjects concerning the future of the planet are absent from this text, despite the proposals of the various political groups; The strict, if not strict, assessment of the rules of inadmissibility has muzzled some of the debates. There is nothing, for example, about maritime policy or about forests, which are a carbon storage solution and create jobs; nothing about digital pollution either, an area in which we would have liked to defend a strategy for the relocation of data centres; nothing about the living environment or landscapes, yet often threatened. [[Guillaume Larrivée applauds]] Let us take the example of wind turbines, a subject dear to our colleague Julien Aubert: the masts, heavily subsidized, disfigure the territories for a very relative efficiency. The Republicans say this clearly: we want a moratorium on wind farms. While renewable energy is useful, it is even more useful in countries dependent on fossil fuels, which is not the case with the nuclear base. France has the chance to continue to benefit from General de Gaulle's strategic vision, which allows it to ensure its energy independence and to be the developed country that produces the least greenhouse gas emissions. We must therefore reaffirm our support for the nuclear industry. In this area, the "at the same time" is a disaster: replacing a decarbonated energy that can be piloted with another, less reliable, is a complete nonsense. Indeed, a number of Finnish and Norwegian ecologists have the lucidity to question their certainty. Nor does the bill address the issue of industrial decarbonation. However, industries currently account for 20% of French greenhouse gas emissions. We would have liked, for example, a genuine support from companies for green hydrogen. We do not dispute the recovery plan; But we must now act alongside companies, because it is through the mastery of technology that we will preserve our planet and create jobs. The mountains have also been forgotten, as well as the ski resorts which, after a difficult year due to the health crisis, question their future: in fifty years, the Alps have lost a month of snow in low and medium mountains and the accelerated melting of glaciers weighs on the ecosystem and water management. The water, let's talk about it: Fortunately, Martial Saddier has tabled an amendment, which you finally accepted, otherwise this subject would not have been mentioned in this bill either! Finally, the absence of ultramarine territories is dismaying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u331	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u332	While they account for more than 80% of French biodiversity, no measures are envisaged to address the issues affecting them. This is an additional mistake in your bill, which, as you will have understood, removes many areas that are essential to the fight against global warming. As for those you approach, you do it according to your now known triptych: guilt, taxation, prohibition. We reject this approach and the constant reverences vis-à-vis the French; We do not want ecology to be reduced to the multiplication of taxes and taxes. That is what we understand about your bill. Let's take low-emission mobility (ZFE-m) areas: it's no more than a new division of the French! You said, Madam Minister, that people will no longer be able to access the city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u333	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u334	If you don't, you can tell me the opposite earlier, but that's what I read in the press. This bias is dangerous and ignores the reality: how are you going to tell a craftsman or young parents to co-car in the areas concerned, the first to go to work, the others to see a doctor? Do you seriously think that in the midst of an economic crisis, artisans have the means to renew their fleet and switch to an electric vehicle? Moreover, even if they were prepared to do so, they would face a lack of car offers. What about the initial objective of social justice announced by the President of the Republic? As far as reducing greenhouse gas emissions is concerned, the question is whether the lessons of the yellow vest crisis have been learned! You are also not saving road freight transport, which still accounts for 90% of the total transport in this sector; Whether you want it or not, it is thanks to the drivers that the French do not lack anything, as they were able to see during the various confinements. But to reduce their CO emissions, you want to tax them! In a few years' time, it is a whole profession that risks collapsing for the benefit of European competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u335	That's not true. Read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u336	Members of the Republican Group ask you to change your position and prepare for a real transition of the sector that will involve biofuels and fuelling throughout the country; the companies are ready for it. During the quinquennium of François Hollande and under the pressure of the movement of the red cups, the ecotax had come out through the door; With Emmanuel Macron, she's coming back out the window! This is a punitive, meaningless measure until a massive supply of environmentally friendly heavy goods vehicles is available to make the transition within the expected time frame. You also doubt the aviation industry and its thousands of employees, who are already preparing the most formidable technological revolution in air transport: small zero-carbon aircraft are already flying. Support this industry! I am also thinking of the restrictions on commercial signs or the ban on the distribution of unaddressed advertisements, which are symbolic measures by the supporters of the decline, which in no way solve the problem of climate change. The subjects that our colleague Sylvie Bouchet Bellecourt is defending will be presented to you during our debates. We will talk about the environmental aberration of the introduction of a glass directive, which will lead to an increase in CO and the consumption of drinking water, not to mention the homogenization of the resulting bottles. On this point, I trust my colleague Valérie Beauvais to make our arguments. In the same way, Vincent Descoeur will talk about the energy renovation of the buildings and defend a multi-annual programming of the sector, in order to encourage the owners to carry out work in a secure environment and to allow a zero-load remainder for the most modest. Finally, and I shall end with that, the issues related to agroecology will be addressed by our colleague Julien Dive. More than ever, the French demand quality and traceability in their plates, for themselves and for their children, at school. Whatever menus are chosen – the possibility of having an alternative between a meal with meat or vegetarian is essential – priority must be given to the local product. And if there are questions about the use of certain fertilizers, we will ensure that the debate is held at European level, so as not to penalise only French farmers; It's about their survival. Instead of taxing our peasants, let's go with them! Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we think of this text at the end of its examination in a special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u337	It's not brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u338	After organizing a Citizens' Convention for the Climate and 17 months of reflection, and despite a perfectly organized teasing to ensure good presidential communication, your bill is very meagre. Science has allowed for an immense development of humanity. Who would now question the benefits of all technological advances? Some have reduced famine or improved health, while others have improved their lives. They have, of course, also produced harmful effects, such as carbon dioxide emissions. Is the game lost anyway? Should hope disappear? We do not believe this, because the same scientific minds that have, for centuries, led to the improvement of the human condition can still do so, while respecting the planet. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let us decree the general mobilization against global warming, let us bequeath to future generations a clean and preserved planet, and let us do so other than by deprivation and prohibition of consumption. All this is just a matter of will. We will be committed, Madam Minister, to working with you on this enormous challenge of climate change. Be sure that Members of the Republican Group will be present to propose solutions – and we hope that they will be heard more than in the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u339	We're waiting for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u340	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1218.u341	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to climate change. The meeting is adjourned.
