ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u2	The next speaker is Mr Victor Habert-Dassault, to put his question, No. 1547, on the social interest of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u3	The Business Growth and Transformation Act (CAPTE) was passed two years ago: there are still concerns about its interpretation, particularly with the tax administration. The purpose of this law is to promote corporate responsibility and involvement at the heart of social and environmental issues. By setting up a raison d'être or by becoming a company on mission, the company carries out actions in favour of the general interest, which do not necessarily have a financial contribution. The interest of society is no longer only economic, nor is it the interest of the realization of a profit, even if it is indispensable for its sustainability. However, the tax administration continues to appreciate the abnormal act of management in the strict sense, without taking into account the contribution of the CAPTE law. By contributing to society as a whole, the company loses in the short term. Is it necessary, however, to consider that it is deliberately impoverishing itself, for purposes that are not in its interest? Do you confirm, Mr. Delegate Minister for Small and Medium Enterprises, that the extra-financial management implications are assessed in accordance with the social interest of the enterprises? For the moment, the blurry in the interpretation of the abnormal management act persists and leaves room for uncertainty. In wanting to work for the common good, businesses are likely to be condemned by the tax administration. Can you shed some light on this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u5	Your question relates to the notion of an abnormal act of management and, therefore, to the rules of deductibility of charges for the taxation of profits. The rules are laid down in Article 39 of the General Tax Code and in the particularly stable case law of the Council of State. A charge is generally deductible from taxable income only if it is incurred in the direct interest of the holding or if it relates to the normal management of the undertaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u6	Thus, the expenses actually borne by the undertaking, which are linked to the exercise of its activity, and from which it withdraws a real, direct and proportionate consideration are allowed as a deduction from the taxable profit. Otherwise, the expenditure cannot be deducted by tax and must be reinstated to the taxable benefit of the undertaking. Whether a charge can be deducted or not does not, of course, assume the virtue of the expenditure made: it is simply a matter of distinguishing, in order to establish the profit, whether this expenditure corresponds to a use of the profit made by the undertaking, or, on the contrary, is used for the production of the undertaking. Therefore, the developments brought about by the PACTE law – which must be welcomed, as they contribute greatly to the social and environmental responsibility of companies – have no reason to change the rules on tax deductibility of charges. These principles do not imply that all expenditure benefiting third parties is considered non-deductible. Expenditure incurred in the context of solidarity actions, giving rise to a consideration or a direct commercial interest for the undertaking, may be deducted from the taxable profit: this is the case for expenditure incurred in the context of sponsorship operations. There are other tax mechanisms to encourage this type of expenditure. Some of the expenses you are targeting may be eligible for the sponsorship plan and may qualify for a tax reduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u7	The floor is open to Mrs Christelle Petex-Levet, to put forward her question, No. 1546, concerning de-lapping undertakings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u8	My question concerns industrial policy, in particular the major difficulties encountered by the décolletage companies working mainly for the automotive sector. The Prime Minister was alerted on the subject by the elected representatives and by the territorial business leaders, when he came a few weeks ago to the congress of the mayors of Haute-Savoie. The situation worsens a little more every week: this flagship of the French industry – the cleavage – is likely to be greatly shaken. Indeed, the situation in the automotive sector has a direct impact on the activity of the de-lapping companies. Order cancellations are increasing, with very serious consequences for subcontractors. The entire profession is affected by this very tense situation which affects, by a game of dominoes, the entire industry of the valley of Arve and Haute-Savoie. Several combined factors put a stop to the activity of the industry and the décolleteurs. The shortage of electronic components forces many companies to resort to partial unemployment. In addition, rising prices of raw materials and energy have placed a heavy burden on cash already in tension since the health crisis. In addition to these economic concerns, there is the prospect of the planned shutdown of thermal engines in favour of 100% electric by 2040, which threatens many companies in the Arve Valley. Companies and players involved in cleavage have always demonstrated their ability to adapt and participate in innovation and progress. However, to meet this new challenge – of a sizeable size – and to succeed in their structural transformation to adapt to other markets, they need to be accompanied. It is essential that the décolletage companies be armed to cope with this new crisis, in order to be able to mobilise financing and successfully carry out the necessary transformations to continue their activity. So how does the Government intend to support these companies in their fight on two fronts – to brave this new crisis and to consolidate, as a matter of urgency, their cash flow – so that they will then be able to tackle the essential adaptation of their activities to meet the new challenges announced by 2040?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u9	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u10	The Government is aware of the cyclical difficulties and structural challenges that affect the players involved in the décolletage in France, and in particular the décolleteurs of the Arve Valley, which I know well, where most of this activity is concentrated. The Office of the Associate Minister for Industry, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, again received last week the Syndicat national du décolletage (SNDEC). The Government is fully mobilized to defend the chain of décolleteurs, strategic for the economy of Haute-Savoie, and its internationally recognized know-how. Starting in 2019, we have put in place support and advisory support mechanisms, together with the Automotive Platform (PFA) and the Public Investment Bank (BPIFrance), to help automotive players define their strategy and transform their business to meet the challenges of electrification and automation of vehicles. In January 2021 we launched the Arve Valley Plan in order to accompany the décolletage sector more specifically, allowing for the association, in a collaborative approach, of the Vallée industrialists, local professional organizations, competitiveness poles, technical centres, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the services of the State in the region. Since its inception, a dozen concrete actions have been identified and are being deployed. The sector also benefits greatly from the car and aeronautics modernization fund of the recovery plan: sixty-seven projects are already supported in Haute-Savoie, representing a total aid of 67 million euros. In terms of volume and value, the department of Haute-Savoie is thus the first of the beneficiaries of this call for projects. The sector will also benefit from the long-term reduction of production taxes of EUR 10 billion per year, which represents a competitiveness support of almost EUR 8 million per year for industrialists in the valley. They will also benefit from the extension, until June 2022, of State-guaranteed loans to support businesses in their cash flow needs, particularly in the context of supply tensions. We attach particular importance to the preservation of this industrial ecosystem and will continue to monitor and mobilize exceptional means to support its transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u11	Mrs Christelle Petex-Levet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u12	I thank you in advance for all the actions that will be carried out to support industrial activity in the Arve Valley.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u13	Mr Romain Grau has the floor to put his question, No. 1532, on the exceptional purchasing power premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u14	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the opportunity for employers to be able to pay all or part of the exceptional purchasing power premium (PEPA) in the form of consumer-specific payment documents. Indeed, while EPA has been a real success in companies – more than €5 billion paid between 2019 and 2020 – its effect on the national economic recovery has been limited due to the high savings rate in France in recent years – and the increase is continuing due in particular to the health crisis. Thus, the EPA, renewed until March 31, 2022, is sometimes more like a premium for saving power than a premium for purchasing power. In addition, during the current crisis – which we do not know the outcome – there has been a strong trend of consumption towards e-commerce platforms, to the detriment of local businesses and independents. Also, the possibility open to companies to pay all or part of the EPA in specific payment securities, which can only be used in local businesses, could contribute effectively to the recovery of certain sectors hard hit by the crisis. These securities are expressly mentioned in an order of 4 June 2018 – restaurant-titles, personalized accompanying cheques, crop-cheques, gift certificates. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government has used them not only to treat people in vulnerable situations as a matter of urgency, but also to revive the catering sector and to enable businesses and social and economic committees to direct more than €200 million, from unrealised spending at the end of the year, to businesses in the real and national economy. To pay part of the potential €3 billion of EPA – if we refer to the figures for 2020 – in the form of specific payment securities would not only make it possible to reproduce on a large scale this virtuous effect of support for local businesses, but would also guarantee a return of VAT for the State. If this option seems to be in line with the Government's will, because of the law's silence as to the form of the payment of the EPA, companies wishing to pay the latter in specific securities could encounter a contradictory or different interpretation of the USSRAF. Therefore, can you, Minister Delegate, confirm that all or part of the EPA premium can be paid in the form of the specific payment securities mentioned in the above-mentioned Order of 4 June 2018?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u15	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u16	In order to support companies wishing to reward employees particularly mobilised in the context of the health crisis, a social and tax exemption from exceptional purchasing power premiums was provided for in the Financial Amendment Act of 19 July 2021. This derogatory tax and social framework is the same as for the last two editions of the EPA, in 2019 and 2020. Premiums may be paid by employers to employees whose remuneration is less than three times the level of the SMIC – 1_589.47 euros per month. The exemption ceiling is EUR 1000. It can be increased to EUR 2000 in two situations: for enterprises employing less than 50 employees, without any other condition; for companies with at least 50 employees, provided that they have implemented measures to value employees working in the second line in the face of the epidemic, or in the direction of better sharing of value within companies. In order to benefit from the exemption, the law provides that premiums must be paid between 1 June 2021 and 31 March 2022, which leaves enough time for the largest number of companies to seize this opportunity. The exceptional premium is intended to provide support to the less well-paid employees to support their purchasing power, while at the same time promoting a better sharing of value within companies. In order for this premium to support the purchasing power of the employees who benefit from it as effectively as possible, it should be freely usable by employees as normal remuneration, which means that it should be paid by undertakings in cash, not in the form of specific payment documents. However, there are other ways to influence household consumption, such as that of gift vouchers, which we upgraded last year: we are looking at the possibility of increasing their amount further this year. In addition, in order to support the catering sector, the Government has extended the measures to relax the terms of the restaurant ticket: the daily usage limit has been doubled from 19 euros to 38 euros until February 2022; The Government authorized its use during the weekend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u17	Mr Romain Grau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u18	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for these specific elements of the response expected by the companies: they will clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u19	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor to put his question, No 1526, on the labelling of foodstuffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u20	Voting laws is one thing, ensuring that they are applied is another; Sometimes, unfortunately, she's not on the date. On 21 July the Committee on Economic Affairs was hearing from our colleagues Bessot Ballot and Blin, the rapporteur for the evaluation of the law on the transparency of information on agricultural and food products, more simply called the "labelling" law. One year after its promulgation, and despite its unanimous adoption by both members of the House of Commons and by senators, their finding is unappealable: the application of the law is broken. This situation is all the more regrettable given that the "labelling" law meets the expectations of many French people who want to know the origin of consumer products such as meat, wine, beer and honey. This text gives consumers the opportunity to know what they are buying and allows them to influence the market through their informed choice. The lack of enforcement does not call only consumers; It is also disconcerting for the parliamentarians who voted unanimously. Their will to act, in response to the expectations expressed by the French, is not respected: the deadlines are not respected and the intentions expressed in the debates and the vote are not followed up. Precious months have been lost for producers, for consumers, but also for us parliamentarians. If technical reasons are given to explain the paralysis of the process of implementing this law, it is nevertheless questionable whether the Government will make any progress on the matter. I would therefore like to know the solution envisaged by the Government to get out of the rut, as well as the deadline after which the application of the law will become effective, in order to meet the expectations of many French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u21	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u22	First, I assure you that the Government attaches importance to the indication of the origin of foodstuffs. First of all, this is reflected in a normative action to strengthen transparency on origin, both at French level – I am thinking in particular of the work of the National Consumer Council in this area – and at European level, within the framework of the European Commission's Farm to Fork strategy. In addition, this results in the mobilization of control services to combat fraudulent practices of francization of products. I have given very clear instructions to the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF. As you know, the application of the labelling law of 10 June 2020 faces legal difficulties related – let us say very clearly – to its incomplete notification to the European Commission. In these circumstances, since autumn 2020, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we have tried to find legal solutions to enable its application – but without real success. Therefore, as part of the parliamentary review of the proposal for a law to protect the remuneration of farmers, known as EGALIM 2, an amendment was adopted to amend the articles of the "labelling" law and to correct these legal obstacles. As the law was enacted on 18 October, we are now in a position to move these laws forward. The two implementing texts on farm cheese and the protection of animal names have already been notified to the Commission. Moreover, in the next few days the texts on the indication of the origin of meat in the out-of-home restaurant and the indication of the origin of honey will be forwarded to the Council of State, and those on the origin of beer and wine to the European Commission. I can assure you that we are making every effort to ensure that these very important provisions of the EGALIM 2 Act are implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u23	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u24	Mr. Deputy Minister, thank you for the clarifications that the subject is moving forward. It is important – and the French know it – to fight against the trade allegations that deceive consumers and do not allow the fair remuneration of the efforts made by our farmers to feed us on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u25	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Labaronne, to put his question, No. 1533, on the recognition of the state of natural disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u26	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the problem of the non-eligibility of the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters of certain recurrent climatic phenomena in metropolitan France. As you know, last June the commune of Saint-Nicolas-de-Bourgueil, in Indre-et-Loire, underwent a mini-tornade. The damage was very important for its inhabitants: the bell tower collapsed, the roof of the party hall was torn off, the town hall was also hit, several residents saw their vehicles fly away. However, in August, the decision fell: the state of natural disaster was not recognized because the damage caused by the cyclonic winds falls within the scope of this guarantee only when they meet the characteristics laid down in Article L. 122-7 of the Insurance Code, i.e. when the maximum surface winds recorded or estimated in the disaster zone reached or exceeded 145 kilometres per hour on average for ten minutes or 215 kilometres per hour in gusts. These criteria correspond to category 4 or 5 cyclones, which limits the scope of this guarantee to overseas departments and communities located in tropical areas and exposed to cyclonic risk. Yet tornadoes, high-intensity thunderstorms, sometimes with hail, are no longer rare phenomena in our country; it now occurs several tens a year. The damage is still considerable: uprooted trees, fractured roads, outdoor furniture and projected construction materials. But if the state of natural disaster is not recognized, then this damage is not compensated by insurers and the victims are injured. That is why, in the face of increasing climate change, does the Government intend to review the criteria for classifying abnormal events as a natural disaster throughout the national territory, particularly with regard to windy phenomena? More generally, what actions does it intend to take in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u27	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u28	The weather event that struck Saint-Nicolas-de-Bourgueil on 19 June was serious. You recalled the damage he caused and of course I address my thoughts to all the people who have been confronted with it. That being said, as you have pointed out, it does not constitute an episode of cyclonic wind covered by the guarantee against natural disasters within the meaning of Article L. 122-7 of the Insurance Code since the winds were not associated with a tropical cyclone. Indeed, the speed did not reach the thresholds set by law, which correspond to category 4 or 5 cyclones on the Saffir-Simpson scale. That is why the application for recognition of the natural disaster state of the municipality has been rejected. On the other hand, damage to insured property of individuals, businesses and communities caused by violent winds such as tornadoes, storms and hail episodes is well covered by their insurance contracts under the TGN storm, hail, snow guarantee. It has been made compulsory by the legislator for all damage insurance contracts, allowing victims to be compensated directly by their insurers without the intervention of the public authorities being necessary. These phenomena are described as insurable because they can occur throughout the national territory and the damage caused is compensated exclusively by insurers; the State does not intervene in the process or in the initiation of the care. The affected inhabitants of Saint-Nicolas-de-Bourgueil are normally compensated directly by their insurer on the basis of the storm guarantee for the damage caused by the heavy winds, without State intervention and under the conditions stipulated in their insurance contract. I would point out, however, that the State is mobilising other aid schemes for the benefit of certain categories of victims, I am thinking of the system of agricultural disasters or the system of solidarity grants in favour of the hard-hit local and regional authorities. These various devices, adapted to the characteristics of natural phenomena and to the particular situation of each event and category of victims, allow for fair compensation for victims in the event of an intense weather event. At this stage, these are the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u29	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u30	Thank you for the clarity of your explanations and the clarifications you have given us. I have no doubt that the inhabitants of Saint-Nicolas-de-Bourgueil will be sensitive to your concern about the climatic phenomena to which they have been subjected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u31	The floor was open to Mr. Philippe Dunoyer, who raised his question, No. 1555, concerning the collection of complaints by others in New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u32	I would like to ask the Government about the experiment in collecting complaints from victims of domestic violence by the police or the gendarmerie, outside their premises, which you have called the collection of complaints from others. On October 12, the Minister of the Interior announced in the Law Commission the launch of this experiment, which you confirmed, Madam Deputy Minister, on October 27, during the review of the Security Mission of the Finance Bill (PLF) for 2022. I welcome this initiative, which complements other mechanisms such as the filing of complaints in hospitals, one of the advances that the Grenelle has made in domestic violence. It should increase the number of complaints and encourage victims, regardless of the pressure they are under. Vaucluse, Pas-de-Calais, Haute-Corse, Sarthe, Morbihan and several arrondissements of Paris have been announced. I note that none of these places are located overseas. However, I would like to point out that the number of domestic violence is very high. I would like to draw your attention to the situation in New Caledonia, where there are many incidents of violence, as I mentioned in my opinion on the 2019 Finance Bill. Thus, the number of verbal assaults is seven times higher than the national average, that of physical assaults, eight times higher and that of sexual assaults, nine times. Since 2019, domestic violence continues to increase: between 2019 and 2020, there has been a 24% increase in one year compared to 8% at the national level, which is three times the national average. Why do victims in New Caledonia not benefit from the same complaints mechanisms? The complaint rate is still very low. Even though we have started an experiment at the New Caledonia Hospital, by establishing an emergency shelter for victims of aggression (CAUVA), in order to allow victims to file complaints, the rate remains very low. The Minister of the Interior and yourself, the Minister Delegate, have taken many steps to improve the care of victims of violence. These are still too many in our territory which occupies the first place of this morbid podium. Is it therefore possible to extend this experiment to New Caledonia?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u33	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u34	The Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, and I have launched an experiment allowing the collection of complaints of victims of domestic violence and gender-based and sexual violence outside the police and gendarmerie services – i.e. a mechanism for collecting complaints outside the walls. On a daily basis, police and gendarmerie units are particularly involved in combating such violence, with an average of 400 interventions per week to protect women and children in particular. We have taken a number of initiatives to enable all women and victims of such violence to seize the forces of law and order. In particular, in order to be able to respond to calls from the overseas territories, we have opened the line to listen to the 3919 24 hours a day, seven days a week, so that calls can be taken even in the event of a time lag. It was a commitment of the President of the Republic, it is now held. It is also to this end that we have created the platform to stop violence.gouv.fr, through which police officers and gendarmes respond, help prepare complaints or carry out immediate interventions, 24 hours a day and seven days a week. Finally, in order to strengthen the quality of the reception and the care of the accompaniment of the victims, we have decided to launch an experiment for the filing of so-called complaints outside the walls, which began on 15 November, for a period of six months. Five departments are concerned, you recalled: the Vaucluse, the Pas-de-Calais, the Haute-Corse, the Sarthe and the Morbihan, as well as the commune of Saint-Denis. Earlier, I will announce that the 13th and 14th arrondissement of the city of Paris will benefit from this experiment. As its name suggests, the idea is to be able to experiment for several months with specific computer tools such as portable printers, allowing complaints to be taken in other places: at the lawyer, in town hall, at a friend, in a hospital, etc. To this end, conventions may be signed. After three months of experimentation, i.e. mid-January 2022, a first assessment will be carried out. By definition, this experiment is intended to be generalized throughout metropolitan and ultramarine departments as soon as possible. To answer your question, together with the Minister of the Interior, we hope that from the very beginning of the year 2022 this mechanism will be experienced in New Caledonia. That is the meaning of the request we have made to the police and the gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u35	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u36	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for this announcement that will be very well received in New Caledonia. You know the specifics of this vast territory, whose population is very fragmented. For those who have a traditional lifestyle, within a small group, filing a complaint is not an easy process. As you have just announced, the beginning of the year 2022 will be marked by an experiment that will take into account our territorial specificities. This is excellent news for the too many victims of domestic violence in New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u37	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to raise her question, No. 1560, concerning appointments to the department for foreigners in the prefectures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u38	Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to draw your attention to the problems encountered by the users of the appointment system at the service of foreigners in the Val-de-Marne prefecture, which reflects the difficulties encountered in all prefectures, in particular those in the Paris suburbs. In recent years, the endless queues of foreigners taking their pains in patience in front of the prefecture of Créteil have fortunately disappeared thanks to the establishment of a system of making prior appointments on the website of the prefecture. But the technology does not solve everything and the number of slots offered to make appointments is not enough to meet the demand of the users, so the device has been gradually engulfed. Instead of registering each application to give a date, even distant, as on medical appointment platforms, the device informs the user that he or she must reconnect to try his or her luck later. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have heard testimonies describing upuesque situations of citizens waking up in the middle of the night to try to find a niche available, many times, but in vain. Malignant minds have benefited from these dysfunctions: specialized associations note that an illegal market for the sale of appointment slots in the prefecture is developing. This practice consists, for intermediaries, of reserving all available slots for an appointment at the prefecture and then selling them. These serious deviations are caused by the profound mismatch between the need for appointments and the proposed solution of online appointments, largely insufficient in number. As regards, specifically, the situation of women, the very long delays, of the order of several months, to obtain an appointment in the prefecture, place foreign women victims of domestic violence in very difficult situations. Those who benefit from a protection order are automatically entitled to a residence permit. However, the High Council for Equality points out that it is not uncommon, when the date of the appointment arrives, that the protection order is no longer valid and that the victim is no longer entitled to a residence permit. According to the decision of the Council of State of 27 November 2019, dematerialisation cannot be imposed on public service users in the name of the constitutional principles of equal access to public service, continuity of public service and equality before the law. Madam Deputy Minister, when will this problem be taken into account? What specific steps do you intend to take to adapt the system to the high demand and no longer leave many people in disarray? This is an important problem in my department, Val-de-Marne, but I know that this situation, I repeat, affects the entire national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u39	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u40	As you know, the Ministry of the Interior has strengthened the services of foreigners in long-term employment: over the last ten years, their workforce has increased by 1,422 full-time equivalents (FTEs), an increase of 56%. We also made use of contractors who came in reinforcement during the seasonal peaks of 610 posts in 2020 and about 100 for 2021. In addition, the Minister of the Interior and I have decided on a plan of reinforcement of 570 full-time equivalents over three years, to better support foreign users in dematerialised procedures, to reduce the time taken to investigate applications for residence permits, and to respond to the difficult situations that you have mentioned. Some prefectures have also set up an online dating service to simplify and streamline these procedures, but it is true that malicious people have organized an illegal sales market to make appointments. This market that exploits misery and distress is unacceptable. In order to combat this phenomenon, mechanisms have been put in place: supervision and screening, reinforcement of firewalls, system for monitoring and combating distributed denials of service, provision of evidence to judicial police officers. These devices have shown their effectiveness: nearly 170 million illicit or malicious connections have been identified and thwarted since June 2020. The prefects systematically file complaints with the judicial authority when these intrusive actions are found and we support them in this process. More specifically, with regard to applications for residence permits, which are legally issued, the modernisation of procedures has been under way since 2019 through the deployment of the digital administration project for foreigners in France (ANEF). By the end of 2022, all the steps taken by foreigners to stay in France will be able to benefit from an online procedure. The Ministry of the Interior has set up a mechanism for persons who are unable to file their application on-line themselves: they are provided with reception and support to enable them to carry out this formality through the mission of listening, intelligence and support to foreigners' démarches. You see, Mrs Gaillot, that we are mobilized to fight illegal trafficking and above all to better accompany these people towards the exercise of their rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u41	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u42	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for this lighting. I note the Government's commitment to improving the situation. The fact that you are mobilizing additional FTEs, whether contract or acting, is a significant step forward. Indeed, people who do not have access to digital tools must be better accompanied, and in all territories. Beyond administrative difficulty, some experience it as a form of abuse, because they feel forgotten. They often have a very difficult journey and sometimes live in a very precarious situation, exacerbated by the difficulties they face. I believe that further efforts are needed to advance access to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u43	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to raise her question, No. 1552, concerning the prison in Condé-sur-Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u44	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the situation of the prison in Condé-sur-Sarthe, where the guard of the seals has visited, a centre where serious and repeated violence is being committed. On 5 October, a detainee assaulted and held two prison guards hostage for several hours. This is the fourth major incident since the establishment was commissioned in 2012. This violence is due to a plurality of factors that we need to identify. Both staff and management report malfunctions. The most important is the specific role of the prison. In fact, this high-security facility was originally thought of as a temporary place of detention for persons sentenced to long sentences, with a dangerous profile. All staff agreed that the institution's initial project was to accommodate these inmates for nine to twelve months, with special care, and then transfer them to other institutions. Nevertheless, it would appear that this settlement project has never been properly formalized. Thus, the temporary nature of the prisoners'passage does not materialize and many have been staying there for several years. According to staff, this creates situations of frustration, despair, or even a sense of having nothing to lose, and it exacerbates tensions and violence. At the same time, both staff and management are talking about staffing issues. Indeed, if it is established that the theoretical coverage rate of this prison is high, in practice the actual coverage rate is much lower. For example, the binomial rule cannot always be respected. These conditions create insecurity for staff, management and detainees. Given these elements, Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, could you provide further information on the exact role that the prison administration's management intended to assign to this institution? Is there any thought being given to finding a solution to the real staffing problems of the prison in Condé-sur-Sarthe?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u45	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u46	You call the attention of the seal guard to the situation of the prison in Condé-sur-Sarthe. Please excuse his absence this morning and I will answer on his behalf. As you said, the staff of the Condé-sur-Sarthe prison were harshly tested by incidents of particular gravity. I would like to commend their daily commitment to the service of the public prison service and to renew our support to them. The assignment of convicted persons to the Condé-sur-Sarthe prison is based on the legislation in force for penal institutions and is not subject to derogation provisions. However, following the hostage-taking on 5 October, a working group led by the Deputy Interregional Director of Penitentiary Services in Rennes, bringing together the management of the institution and all trade union organizations, including non-locally represented organisations, has been set up. This working group provided an opportunity to reflect on the settlement project, taking into account the security nature of the central home district. It must also objective the risk of violence related to the length of tenure within the institution in order to strike a balance in the management of detention between short-term detainees and other long-term detainees, which is potentially a source of stability of life in detention, particularly in the context of maintaining family ties. In this sense, the central administration, which is responsible for the assignment of convicted persons to central homes, will accompany the discussions at the local level on both the organization of detention and the assignment of detained persons. With regard to the total coverage of the supervisory staff at this facility, it was 97.93 per cent as at 30 September 2021. Contrary to what you say, we cannot talk about staffing problems in the Condé-sur-Sarthe prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u47	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u48	Thank you for the elements you have brought. Staff felt that if the working group set up at the penultimate violent event had made proposals, if projects had been put forward, none of them had been implemented. It is important for staff and management that promises be followed by action. Finally, there is a real dispute over the perception of the coverage rate. If we take into account the presence of the overseers, the coverage rate is lower than that you are advancing. Moreover, it can be understood that there is a lack of staff due to the difficulty of the task and the presence of beginner supervisors who are faced with very difficult situations. Perhaps we should also think about the assignment of these young professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u49	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to put his question, No. 1523, on French education abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u50	For Montesquieu, "education is about giving us ideas, and good education is about putting them in proportion." Following this adage and in a desire to revive the Francophonie, "this human continent", on 20 March 2018, the President of the Republic set the goal of doubling the number of students in French schools abroad by 2030. Subsequently, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, the Minister for National Education and Youth, Jean-Michel Blanquer, and the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, worked on a plan for the development of French education abroad, which was the subject of broad consultation with all stakeholders. I thank them for that. Distributed in 138 countries, the 543 French educational institutions abroad are composed of 67 direct management institutions, 159 contracted institutions and 317 partner institutions. More than 375000 students, including a third of French students, whose families have chosen a French education for their children, form this vast network that contributes to the international reach of France – a network that also demonstrates the excellence of French pedagogy. I know how much the parents' associations of students, whom I meet every time I travel in my constituency, are attentive to it. I thank them for this confidence that has never been denied, while registration fees are an important part of families' budgets. Nevertheless, this old network, and in old places, requires a massive and rapid financial commitment, while it is confronted with strong competition; In particular, it seems necessary to increase the amount of grants and to remove certain obstacles to borrowing and sponsorship. In the context of the health crisis we are experiencing, to what extent can the objectives of doubling staff, expanding and modernising facilities be achieved? Shouldn't more use be made of innovative and private financing, especially sponsorship? The network of former students is formed and imagines fundraising that would contribute to the development of our network. This would compensate for possible increases in tuition fees that could affect the parents of students – this is a constant concern for them. I come from the field, from my constituency: I was yesterday in Casablanca, last week in Monrovia, the previous week in Mali and Niger. Some time before, I spoke to the principal of the French high school in Marrakech, Victor-Hugo High School: he told me that he was thinking about a foundation that would raise funds to develop this institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u51	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u52	Thank you for your question. As you point out, the Government is fully mobilized for the development of French education abroad; You also know that the Agency for the Teaching of French Abroad (AEFE) is under the supervision of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. As far as staffing is concerned, the 2022 finance bill stabilizes the AEFE grant to the tune of EUR 417 million. This level perpetuates the €24.6 million increase measure voted in 2020. This continuity is necessary to support the plan for the development of French education abroad, in accordance with the objective set by the President of the Republic. The health crisis does not affect our ambitions; As of spring 2020, we have mobilised almost 150 million euros to support all families and institutions in the network. Since 2020, more than 20 additional schools have been registered, bringing the number of French schools abroad to 545 and the number of students attending school to 375000. With regard to the means of modernisation, the State will directly guarantee the loans of French educational institutions abroad, which are contracted and partnered. In addition, the 2022 finance bill allocates €94.4 million to scholarships for French students in the French education network abroad. There was a one-time saving of 10 million compared to 2021, but it is not intended to be renewed in the next fiscal years. I would like to reassure you that it will in no way affect the total amount of aid that can be mobilised for the benefit of families, up to EUR 104.4 million, as in 2021. There is therefore no decrease in the resources allocated to scholarships. Finally, we will now fund school support for students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u53	The floor is open to Mr. Laurent Garcia, to put his question, No. 1525, concerning recruitment in the animation sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u54	My question concerns the major recruitment difficulties encountered by the animation world structures for several months. This tension relates to all types of positions – mainly those of public activity, but also to the functions of coordination, management and social work or administrative functions. In total, it is estimated that 50000 positions would not be held in this sector. As a result, for the holiday of Toussaint, more than one in three communes could not accommodate all the children who requested it. This shortage of facilitators was pointed out in particular by the survey conducted by Hexopee, an organisation of employers of popular education, and by the Fund for Cooperation of Youth and Popular Education (FONJEP), published on 25 October 2021. This shows the extent of the phenomenon, which would affect more than three quarters of the population's education actors in the territory. It highlights how important it is to promote the animation trades among young people, but even more so to value them both in terms of wages – pay and prospects for change are cited at 24% as a barrier to recruitment – as well as in terms of working conditions – 15% of respondents also identify part-time as unattractive. In the face of this shortage, you announced at the end of October 2021 several measures in favour of the certificate of aptitude for the functions of facilitator (BAFA) and the certificate of aptitude for the functions of director (BAFD), including the granting of exceptional aid from 200 euros to 20,000 young people in 2022 to encourage them financially to prepare these patents. Consultation between representatives of local authorities and employers' associations is also planned to work on the issue of remuneration and part-time work, which weighs on the career paths of professional facilitators. Until these measures are implemented, many communities are struggling to form their leadership teams, including teams of extra-curricular facilitators. This is in particular the case of the city of Laxou, located in my constituency, whose planning of the child's time has been exemplary for more than twenty-five years. The Government calls on the local authorities to make this extracurricular time a real time of education, including through the implementation of territorial educational projects, such as food education, promoted by law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all (EGALIM). Therefore, would it be possible to redefine the employment frameworks of the territorial civil service in order to better integrate this staff necessary for the daily lives of families, teachers and the well-being of children?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u55	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u56	Thank you for your question. You are asking us about the possibilities of redefining territorial public service employment frameworks to better integrate facilitators. As you know, the animation sector of the territorial public service comprises two job cadres: the animation assistants, who fall into category C; the territorial facilitators, who fall into category B. There is no category A employment framework. The employees in these jobs work on behalf of municipalities or public institutions for intercommunal cooperation (EPCI), most often in collective receptions of minors. The departments of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, which are accompanying, in particular through pedagogical engineering, and which supervise these structures, are not competent to define and develop the territorial channel of animation. For the State, it is the Directorate-General for Local Authorities (DGCL) which, being responsible for drawing up all the provisions concerning local authorities, has the task of establishing the status of local actors. The Ministry of Education cannot replace the DGCL in its role as the primary interlocutor for the state of local authorities. However, aware of the problems of attractiveness of the socio-educational animation sector, the Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, Sarah El Haïry, decided to gather foundations of animation from 24 November 2021. If the question of the statutes were to emerge from this consultation between employers and financers of the sector, it will of course be relayed to the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u57	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor to raise her question, No. 1544, concerning the management of dys.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u58	Language-specific disorders, commonly referred to as dys disorder, are cognitive disorders that affect language and numeracy, and result in dyslexia, dysarthography, dysphasia, dyspraxis, or dyscalcia. The prevalence of this disease is estimated at 10% of the population; That is to say the importance of the subject I am referring to. The manifestations of these disorders usually appear in the child during the first school apprenticeships. Parents, and even teachers, who are unfortunately not always adequately trained, identify a problem at school. They will need a diagnosis, but it is only possible from the second year elementary course (CE2) and after 18 months of speech therapy. The fighter's journey then begins for them. They need to access a learning disabilities platform. In the Ardennes, it is two years of waiting, while if they can go to Belgium, to our neighbours, there is only a few months of waiting. They can also make the balance sheet work out in the private sector: this will cost them 200 euros, an amount inaccessible to families with modest incomes. After obtaining the opinions of six different professionals, they must have the diagnosis validated by a doctor and then by a school doctor in order to access the accompaniments. The file then leads to the departmental house of disabled people (MDPH) and a personalized accompanying plan is developed. I have been asked by parents of Ardennes children faced with these difficulties, who have explained to me the long journey they have followed with their child: it can take four years, even for people who are accustomed to the multiple administrative formalities, who have good control of these steps, and who have shown themselves tenacity to go through certain stages. These serious dysfunctions place families in complex and challenging situations, and all this seriously affects the needs and learnings of these children. Although the Government has done nothing, we are still far, if not far, from an appropriate response. How do you intend to allow these children to have access to much faster care? What policy are you going to put in place to reduce these incredibly long and penalizing delays for "dys" children?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u59	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u60	Thank you for your question. To allow the school of the Republic to be fully inclusive is a strong ambition of the Government; It is an ambition that we all share here. Students with specific language and learning disorders (TSLA) can benefit from two types of specific devices: the Personalised Accompaniment Plan (PAP) is intended for students with lasting school difficulties due to an apprenticeship disorder but not a disability recognition; The Personalized Schooling Project (PPS) requires that the family apply to the CDMH for recognition of disability. The Directorates of the Department of National Education (DSDEN) are all equipped with national education inspectors responsible for the school adaptation and schooling of disabled pupils, dedicated to the support. They are responsible for monitoring students with special educational needs or disabilities, such as "dys" students, and for coordinating the various actors. We have done a great deal, and I thank you for highlighting it. Since the 2019 school year, the Cap école inclusive platform offers teachers simple teaching resources, immediately available in class. It also allows the teacher to connect with peer experts. Finally, one of the measures resulting from the Ensemble pour une école inclusive concertation, launched at the end of 2018, provided for the creation of a specific computer tool. Since October 4, 2021, the Inclusive Course Booklet (LPI) application for students with special educational needs has been deployed in four pilot academies. By 2022, it will be available throughout the country, and all students with special educational needs will have an inclusive journey booklet accessible to families. The LPI is a platform for monitoring students with special educational needs, including pupils with dys disorders. It integrates, according to the needs of the student, all formal school plans, including the personalized support plan and the implementation document of the personalized school project. The educational adaptations and adjustments are provided. The objective of the LPI is also to ensure that families are able to implement these adaptations and adjustments. This evolving tool allows for continuous information sharing by all actors throughout the student's high-potential academic career from the first changes introduced by the teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u61	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u62	The Government did nothing, I said, and you described your actions. But the problem I was pointing out is that there are still parents who need almost four years to see their approach come to fruition. It is difficult to make the diagnosis because teachers are not always sufficiently trained, parents are not always alerted. Second, it can be very difficult to find professionals, especially in certain territories; In the Ardennes, the situation is very complex. Fortunately, the Belgians took this cause with arms-the-body faster, no doubt, than we do: it takes only a few months for the children to be cared for. I insist on this difference with our neighbors. These disorders affect 10% of children, and good care changes everything for the student.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u63	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot spoke about his question, No. 1554, concerning accompanying students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u64	On 19 October last, accompanying students with disabilities (AESH) were on strike in my department of Mayenne. They were protesting to denounce the precarious working conditions, to demand an increase in their salary, as well as a real status as a civil servant. AESH plays a crucial role in providing assistance that is best suited to the situation of the pupils concerned and contributes greatly to the establishment of a structured and reassuring class for all students. In Mayenne, the lack of staff leads to significant difficulties: the attendants have to follow more and more children, in several institutions, which greatly divides their time schedule and sometimes translates into absurd and counterproductive measures on the ground. As for children, they enjoy fewer hours with auxiliaries who change during the year, which does not encourage the establishment of a bond of trust, however necessary for these children, who must, despite their disability, manage to live as serenely as possible their schooling. With respect to their remuneration, these HSAs request alignment with the Category B grid. Indeed, while the creation of a grid with automatic advancement is a step forward, it does not solve the problem of the very low salaries of these personnel, due in particular to the fact that they cannot make full time. AESH earns an average of 800 euros per month, which means that many of them live below the poverty line. AESHs love their profession and yet some are considering resigning. Indeed, how can one want to live under the poverty line in the long term? Finally, accompanying students with disabilities demand a real status as civil servants. While it is true that progress has been made in the 2022 finance bill, particularly with regard to the increase in staff, what answer can you bring to the disarray of these personnel, essential links of "living together" in schools, but who suffer from a lack of recognition and poor working conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u65	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u66	I will begin by recalling the commitment made by the President of the Republic at the national conference on disability on 11 February 2020 to create 11,500 AESH jobs by the end of 2022 and to increase their working time, in order to avoid contracts on an incomplete basis, because of course I join you in saying and reiterating how essential their work is. For example, 8000 AESH jobs were created in the new year 2020, 4000 full-time equivalents (FTEs) were created in the new year 2021, and the 2022 Finance Bill provides for the creation of 4000 FTEs for the new year 2022. In parallel with the recruitment of new HSEAs to respond to the growing notifications of HSEAs, the Ministry has carried out an unprecedented effort to secure HSEAs' journeys, which has resulted in the transformation of all aided contracts into AESH contracts. Since the law for a school of trust, these agents are contracting under public law for a period of three years, renewable once. After six years of service in these functions, they can benefit from an indefinite contract (CDI). The renovation of the terms and conditions of employment of the AESHs resulted in the publication of a new management framework on 5 June 2019, which aims in particular to clarify the modalities of counting their working time, in order to ensure the recognition of all the activities carried out. This clarification, together with the inclusion of related or complementary activities in the accompanying work, improves the remuneration of HESAs, which depends on the hourly rate worked. On the other hand, the generalisation of the localised inclusive support centres (PIALs), particularly inter-degrees, allows a large number of AESHs to see their working time increased, thanks to a new organisation of the accompaniment. These centres enable coordination of the means of human accompaniment. They also aim at professionalising the accompanying persons and improving their working conditions. With regard to the upgrading of the remuneration of the AESH, an amount of EUR 60 million is mobilised from the start of the school year 2021 and within the framework of the PLF for 2022. In addition, a decree of 20 October 2021 increased to the gross index 368 the remuneration of the first step of the scale for accompanying pupils with disabilities as from 1 October 2021. This will ensure a consistent progression and give visibility to the AESHs on their pay prospects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u67	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u68	I have heard, Madam Secretary of State, what you have just said and hope that this will be translated into practice on the ground, both for the benefit of the AESHs, but also and perhaps especially for children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u69	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor to put his question, No. 1539, on repositories in viticulture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u70	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the consequences of the lack of recognition of equivalence between the certification of sustainable viticulture in Champagne (VDC) and the certification of high environmental value level 3 (HVE 3). The champagne sector plays a pioneering role in the field of respect for the environment in France, with almost 50% of the surfaces of the AOC – controlled label of origin – which benefit from environmental certification. The sustainable wine-growing benchmark in Champagne, recognised by a decree of the Ministry of Agriculture of 7 April 2013, fully incorporates the content of the HVE 3 reference books, which is therefore a common core; It even goes far beyond this, since it also covers the following fields: control of the use of inputs, responsible management of effluents, by-products and waste, preservation of the land, biodiversity and wine-growing landscapes, and the reduction of the carbon footprint of the sector. VDC certification is therefore better than HVE, and yet there is no equivalence between the two certifications, which has several consequences. First, growers must bear the costs of double certification if they are to be able to obtain HVE certification and VDC certification. Secondly, this lack of equivalence can, in the short term, encourage many wine growers and operators in the country to turn away from the policy of preserving biodiversity and wine-growing landscapes, guaranteed by the certification of sustainable wine-growing in Champagne, in order to favour the HVE certification easier to obtain and a more common use at national level. Finally, winemakers and operators who have already obtained VTC certification are now excluded from the tax credit scheme introduced under the Finance Act for 2021. In order to support ambitious sustainable viticulture and to relieve wine growers, it is vital to recognize the equivalence between HVE and VDC certifications. As soon as the VDC certification is more demanding and binding than the HVE certification, the VDC wine grower must therefore benefit, for example, from the same tax advantages as the wine grower who has obtained the HVE certification, which is not the case today. That is why I ask that wine growers who respect similar rules for the preservation of biodiversity and wine-growing landscapes be guaranteed the same rights as those granted to the certified wine-grower HVE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u71	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u72	I will reply to you on behalf of Julien Denormandie, who asks you to excuse him because he has been mobilised by the presentation of the road map for the prevention of ill-being and for the accompaniment of farmers in difficulty. I know the importance of the involvement of Champagne wine growers in the sustainable wine-growing process in Champagne, which contributes fully to the agro-ecological transition of French agriculture, which we support and encourage with all our wishes. The environmental certification of farms is a three-tiered approach to environmental progress, aimed at identifying, accompanying and valuing farms engaged in environmentally friendly practices. Level 2 environmental certification is based on means requirements. Recognition, at this level, of equivalence is possible when structured approaches incorporate obligations of similar means and a control system that offers the same guarantees, on all or part of the farm. It is in this context that the sustainable wine-growing approach in Champagne has been recognised at level 2 of the environmental certification of agricultural holdings for the wine-growing activity of the holdings, since the specifications for sustainable wine-growing in Champagne apply only for this workshop. High environmental value, on the other hand, corresponds to the highest level of the farm environmental certification scheme, Level 3. It is based on performance obligations measured by environmental performance indicators, which must cover the entire agricultural activities of the holding, not a single workshop. Thus, there is no possible equivalence between the HVE, which concerns the whole farm, and the sustainable wine-growing approach in Champagne, which concerns only the wine-growing plant. On the other hand, the approaches which incorporate the environmental performance indicators of high environmental value into their specifications may lead to the certification of holdings under this scheme, in the context of combined audits, if all the farm's workshops are taken into account. This is now practised by many wineries in France, which are both certified in HVE, but also under another approach incorporating the same indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u73	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u74	Thank you for your explanation. Nevertheless, a form of quiproquo remains, since, although it meets more efficient criteria than the HVE, sustainable wine certification in Champagne does not enjoy the same tax advantages and it also obliges wine growers who want to obtain it to commit funds. It therefore seems to me that the issue deserves further consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u75	Mrs Cécile Delpirou has the floor to raise her question, No. 1536, concerning the National Forestry Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u76	Last July, I met with the Interunion of the National Forestry Board (NFB), which alerted me about the State-NFB contract for the period 2021-2025. While the stakes relating to the forest have never been greater, this contract provides for a gradual disengagement of the State from this essential structure, thus aggravating the persistent malaise among the employees. The NFB is in a structural deficit. While the need for financing – and hence the use of debt – will increase by 20% over the next five years, the work overload of employees is estimated, for 2020, between 130 and 150%, with the removal of 95 full-time equivalents (FTEs) per year for five years, which could further worsen the situation. Let us not sacrifice the forest to an accounting policy. Over the next ten years, global warming and the development of fungi and diseases will require the replacement of nearly 10,000 hectares of forest per year, at an estimated annual cost of €50 million. Without this, the risk of forest fires will increase, including in areas that have so far been relatively spared. In Germany, the forest plan provides EUR 300 million of investment per year over 10 years, while the Cattelot report recommends EUR 300 million per year over 30 years. If the recovery plan provides EUR 150 million over two years, we welcome this first step, but what will happen next? A forest is built over time, and the NFB must be a pillar of our climate strategy. So can you reassure us about the future of the NFB, an essential link in responsible and ecological forest policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u77	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u78	You are asking us about the government's vision and ambition regarding the NFB and forestry policy in general. In the preamble, I recall that the Government is committed to the sustainability of the NFB, a valuable tool in the service of national forestry policy, particularly in the context of climate change that is severely affecting our forests. The NFB has been experiencing an imbalanced financial situation for several years, compounded recently by the scolyte crisis in eastern France and the covid crisis, to which we wish to provide structural responses. The institution's level of debt reached 450 million euros: without reaction, its sustainability was clearly at risk. A number of commitments have therefore been made in order to give it a new perspective. First, the government maintains the NFB's Industrial and Commercial Public Institution (IPO) status and reaffirms that there is no privatization project. Secondly, the State is committed to making a very important effort. Thanks to the upgrading of their funding, with a constant scope, the NFB's missions of general interest are strengthened, particularly with regard to biodiversity and overseas. To this end, an additional EUR 12 million will be granted this year, amounting to EUR 22 million in 2024. In addition to these funds and the 140 million euros of annual compensatory payments, the Government will also mobilise 60 million euros over three years – 30 million in 2021, 20 million in 2022 and 10 million in 2023 – to strengthen its balance subsidy and thus support the institution. Moreover, as you pointed out, thanks to the unprecedented resources – 150 million euros – allocated by the recovery plan to forest renewal, the necessary investments in state forests affected by the scolytes crisis or identified as vulnerable in the context of climate change are fully funded by the owner state, without mobilizing the NFB's investment capacity. As such, an allocation of EUR 30 million was allocated for 2021. In return for these efforts by the government and with the objective of achieving the institution's financial balance by 2025, additional efforts are required from the NFB, including a 5% reduction in annual expenses over five years. The NFB is therefore expected to continue to apply its employment plan, which provides for the abolition of 95 FTEs per year, over the duration of the next contract between the State and the NFB, and a moderation of its operating expenses of 4 million euros by 2022. In addition, the Government wishes to maintain the close association of forest communes with the NFB's governance, as well as with the restoration of its funding model: the assumptions of modification of the Board of Directors have been ruled out. In this regard, the NFB and FNCOFOR – the National Federation of Forest Communes – are engaged in a convention setting out their mutual commitment for the period 2021-2025. Finally, on the basis of a reformed analytical accounting system, the NFB will ensure greater economic and financial transparency vis-à-vis the state, forest communes and its administrators. Some €200 million is spent on the forest-wood sector as part of the recovery plan presented by the Prime Minister on 3 September 2020, while the France Recovery 2030 plan, announced by the President of the Republic on 12 October, will spend €500 million on French forests. We therefore fully support this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u79	Mrs Cécile Delpirou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u80	Thank you for your answer, but would like to stress that the NFB's workforce is going to be increasingly solicited, while their workload is already very high.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u82	They should therefore be given special attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u83	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to raise her question, No. 1556, concerning special education in high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u84	My question concerns the specialties in the senior class as part of the reform of the baccalaureate. Launched in 2018 by the Minister of National Education, the latter replaced the former L, ES and S series – literary, economic, social and scientific – of the general way a teaching composed of a common core supplemented by modern languages and an offer of twelve choices of specialty teachings. This reform, which came into force at the beginning of 2020, was logically hampered by the health crisis, which prevented its full deployment, and poses several problems with its implementation and evaluation. I had the honour of carrying out, together with our colleague Bertrand Bouyx, the flash mission on the specialties at the senior level in the context of the reform of the baccalaureate and our report, delivered on 22 July 2021, indicates that it has accentuated geographical inequalities, particularly in rural areas, as illustrated by the situation of some communes in my department of Oise. In fact, due to a lack of human and material resources, not all specialized teachings are available in all high schools. Some students are forced to leave their schools to study elsewhere, which complicates their situation, creates additional costs for parents and ultimately leads most students to give up certain specialties to stay in their high schools. Another problem brought about by this reform is the compliance with the school map and the avoidance strategies of certain sector lycées. Since not all schools offer all the specialties, some students will easily succeed in not enrolling in the sector high school where they are normally expected. I would therefore like to know what means the Ministry of Education intends to use to make this reform fully effective and thus enable pupils to follow the specialties they wish, without affecting their personal and family balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u85	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u86	This question on Specialty Teaching (ESD) allows me to make an initial assessment of their establishment. The list of these teachings was drawn up by the decree of 16 July 2018 and it is for the rectors of academies to draw up a map of their geographical distribution, so that it is as balanced and adapted as possible to the territories under their jurisdiction. The decree also provides that a pupil may, on an exceptional basis, follow a part of the EDS in an institution other than the one in which he is enrolled, if they cannot be dispensed there in his high school and, of course, where an agreement exists between institutions for that purpose. For example, at the start of the 2020 school year, 3,785 pupils were admitted to an institution other than the one in which they were enrolled, representing only 0.4 per cent of the first and final pupils on the general road. Academy rectors are committed to ensuring the best possible supply of ESD and to supporting the least attractive or isolated institutions, allowing them to provide original and diverse teachings. In addition, SDSs must be accessible within a reasonable area. In the case of isolated schools, special education not provided is provided by the CNED – National Centre for Distance Learning. In total, at the start of the 2020 school year, only 11.8% of contracted public or private schools welcomed students who could not follow the ESD of their choice in their own school. The academies where the schools host the most students from other institutions are those of Reims, Aix-Marseille and Versailles. Conversely, in the academies of Mayotte, Guiana, Poitiers or Corsica, no schools have received students enrolled in another high school. As far as the Amiens Academy is concerned, which concerns you in particular, the speciality teaching map has been designed in order, as I said, to offer students a balanced offer, regardless of their school year. Indeed, the forty-three general lycées of the academy offer an average of 8.65 speciality teachings out of the twelve existing ones, no institution of the academy offering them all, because some are considered rare. As for the high schools in the Oise department, they offer between seven and eleven specialized courses: the average is 8.87 EDS per institution and thus appears to be higher than that of the academy. In addition, special attention has been paid to the rural establishments of the Oise, which all offer at least eight specialized courses, such as the Lycée Condorcet de Méru, which offers ten, or the lycées Jean-Calvin de Noyon and Jean-Monnet de Crépy-en-Valois, which offer nine. I therefore believe that I have shown that your legitimate fears are not true on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u87	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u88	Thank you for these few elements. However, without challenging the merits of the reform, it seems necessary to improve access to secondary school specialties for all students, by making known, as recommended in the report of the flash mission, the academic map of their distribution and knowing that for there to be an academic map in line with the needs of the territories, there must first be high schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u89	Thank you for closing, Mrs. Thill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u90	For example, in the Vexin, where 20,000 people live, there is no high school. They are all in Beauvais, which has five for 600,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u91	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to put his question, No. 1548, on nutri-score.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u92	My question is about the nutrient-score nutrition labelling system and its impact, among other things, on PDO products – protected designation of origin – and PGI – protected geographical indication. To address the justified concerns of many French people regarding the quality of their diet, nutrient-score displays have been mandatory on all food advertising media since 1 January 2021. Nutri-score is a food quality logo made up of five colours ranging from dark green to red, which are associated with letters ranging from A to E. This logo, which instantly allows the consumer to learn about the gross nutritional value of the products, appears to be entirely relevant for certain agro-industrial products. However, the perverse effects resulting from this scale should be noted. In fact, traditional, ancestral products, made from simple ingredients, get mediocre notes, like the foie gras of Gers, the brocciu of Corsica, the olive oil of Provence, the black pig of Bigorre, or the maroilles of the North, among other good French products. On the other hand, some industrial products that can replace these traditional products, sometimes in a misleading way, get much better scores, notably through the addition of water in the manufacture. Worse still, according to the Open Food Facts platform, some deep-frozen fries score the highest in the nutri-score while being ultra-processed foods within the meaning of the NOVA classification, which, in turn, evaluates the degree of transformation or even structural destruction of food. Like all nutritional assessments, therefore, nutrient-score has limits. It also does not take into account pesticides that may be found in the products or additives used. Our action thus seems paradoxical: while we ask our fellow citizens to "make the choice of local and quality products from our agriculture", in the words of Julien Denormandie, 93% of the products under PDO or PGI are rated D or E. Nutri-score therefore risks favouring industrial products which, I repeat, often misunderstand traditional products, to the detriment of producers, while PDO and PGI labels guarantee quality, require a precise and binding specification and thus offer a much greater degree of transparency. That is why I would like the Government to clarify its strategy to protect and strengthen local products, particularly those under PDO and PGI, in the face of the forthcoming expansion of the nutrient-score. In the country of 1000 cheeses, we do not want the Fresh Square 0% to become the benchmark.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u93	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u94	You are asking the Minister of Agriculture and Food about nutrient-score and more specifically about its application to products under the AOP label. First of all, nutri-score is a simple, effective and packaging-friendly nutrition logo that is scientifically founded and aimed at helping consumers adopt healthy eating behaviours. This tool is part of a comprehensive public health policy: its deployment and promotion to consumers is complementary to public health messages promoting a varied and balanced diet. Class D or E products, such as cheeses, can be consumed as part of a balanced diet, adapting the frequency of consumption and the size of servings. The national nutrition health programme now recommends the consumption of two or three dairy products a day, including cheeses. I repeat, if a food has a low nutrient score, then there is no question of excluding it from a healthy diet as long as it is consumed in appropriate quantities. Nutri-score and quality labels therefore provide different but complementary information. The quality labels inform about the method of production and the link with the terroirs and know-how, while the nutrient-score indicates the overall nutritional quality of the food. And the consumer is not mistaken, as sales follow-up indicates that the consumer plebiscites products under the name even when their nutrient-score is low, especially cheeses, whose sales are on the rise. This shows that both taste and intrinsic quality of PDO products remain the main criteria for consumer purchasing. I also want to ruin some misconceptions. First, the display of the nutri-score is voluntary and will never be made compulsory in France if it is not in Europe, in order to avoid unfair competition. It is therefore out of the question of making it mandatory on 1 January 2022. At European level, as part of the Farm to Fork strategy, an impact assessment is under way by the European Commission, which could lead to a mandatory labelling system, but it is not yet known and will be discussed in depth. It will not be until the end of 2022 and France will obviously have a say in it as a Member State, particularly in the European Council. It will never support a system harmful to the gastronomic reputation of PDO cheeses because of the heritage reputation of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u95	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u96	I therefore understand that the Carré Frais Gervais wins the battle against traditional products, since it is classified B, while the Roquefort is classified E. I am worried about the future of our products and traditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u97	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u98	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u99	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to raise her question, No. 1541, on the consequences of femicides for families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u100	In France, every three days, a woman dies under the blows of her companion or ex-companion. This sad reality remains a collective failure. Nearly 120 women had been killed in 2020 and 101 since 1 January 2021, often facing the consequences of femicides alone. These women are also mothers who leave orphaned children. These are collected by relatives – an uncle, an aunt, grandparents – who do their best to organize a new daily routine overnight, without adequate assistance or assistance for these children. These relatives carry out numerous steps on their behalf, from school registration – while no administrative documents are available – to necessary visits to the psychologist, whose monthly cost does not always fit into the family budget. For example, the children of Céline Firma-Foulon, who was killed in 2020, found themselves overnight without papers, without business. Even if they have been recovered by their uncle, the administration cannot redo their papers, in the absence of the holders of parental authority or authorization from them. This is the concrete situation, which adds exasperation and a sense of injustice and impotence to the immense suffering of families and children. Let us also think of the impossibility for these children to access their memories, photos and toys, often remaining in the parents' housing, which is placed under seal – some children have not even been able to access a picture of their mother for two years. This creates, I insist, a feeling of impotence and incomprehension. Madam Minister-in-Charge, how can we immediately – urgently – provide both material and moral support to these families? It is the duty of the State. We must consider the best way to ease their difficulties and facilitate their administrative procedures; the administration must be understanding and trained in these situations. Would the right solution not be to provide a one-stop shop, with human support that could replace families?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u101	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u102	The Government, as well as the Parliament, are very strongly mobilized in the fight against violence against women. We have committed significant resources in this area and the Grenelle against domestic violence provides for very concrete measures to accompany women victims of violence and their children. Without going back to every step taken since 2017 to protect them, this commitment has been reflected in a very strong legislative and very specific way. The Act of 28 December 2019 to act against domestic violence thus provides for arrangements for the exercise of parental authority, so that it is no longer a means for the violent parent to maintain a hold on the other parent. The Act also extends the legislative framework, allowing the criminal judge to specifically withdraw the exercise of parental authority. Similarly, it provides for the temporary suspension of the exercise of parental authority and of all related rights, including access and accommodation rights, in the event of a crime against the other parent. As far as femicides are concerned, several measures have been adopted within the framework of the Grenelle to better protect and support children who are victims of their exposure to these very serious violence. Thus the public prosecutors were invited to generalize the femicide protocol, which allows for the care of the minor by a hospital service. This care will be reinforced very soon by the deployment of the care path for the child victim, in accordance with measure 14 of the plan to combat violence against children 2020-2022 defended by my colleague Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Children and Families. In addition, from now on, pursuant to the law of 28 December 2019, if the judge orders the delegation of the exercise of parental authority to the third party, family member or other person who received the child following the death of the victim parent, that third party may take all the decisions necessary for the organization of the child's life, without having to obtain the permission of the perpetrator of the crime leading to the death of the other parent. The essential role of associations alongside victims and relatives of victims should also be stressed. For example, the network of information centres on women's and family's rights, which receives financial support from the State for the performance of its tasks, provides legal aid for family members facing violence. For example, public action has increased over the past five years to better address the situation of child victims of domestic violence. This dynamic continues by mobilising all the actors involved, be they institutional or associative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u103	Mr Stéphane Vojetta has the floor to put his question, No 1540, on support for French companies abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u104	In a context of economic recovery, I welcome the joint decision of the National Committee of Foreign Trade Advisers of France (CCEF) and the French Chambers of Commerce and Industry International (CCI-FI) to launch together the EFE international initiative – French companies from abroad international. Indeed, this initiative will identify French companies established abroad under the EFE label in order to better measure the impact of their actions and increase France's support for them. EFEs are companies governed by local law, but created and run by one or more French residents outside France; They play the leading role of France abroad, for example by promoting a French product or know-how or by contributing to the development of France's foreign trade. This label will, in particular, allow EFEs to benefit from increased state support. As a first step, EFEs will be able to strengthen their teams by recruiting VIEs – international volunteers in companies. However, we must go further. Indeed, much of French technological innovation is now taking place outside our borders, in Silicon Valley, Tel Aviv, Barcelona or elsewhere. In order not to leave foreign funds alone, particularly US funds, to participate in the financing of these companies to take strategic control of them, we must maintain a capital link with them and their innovations. This will enable us to strengthen France's technological and economic sovereignty, in a context of increased international economic competition. Would it therefore be possible to allow EFEs to access financing of French origin in debt, but above all in equity, notably through the BPIFrance or through the Fonds pour l'innovation et l'industrie? In the same vein, would it be possible to adapt for these EFEs the criteria for obtaining the status of an innovative young company? This status, reserved for companies owned by a majority of French natural persons, could indeed be amended to make French subsidiaries held by EFEs eligible for the support measures linked to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u105	The Minister-in-Office has the floor. The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u106	BPIFrance, the Banque publique d'investissement has developed an international offer through financing and export insurance. These offers, which receive public support, are intended to accompany French companies wishing to develop abroad. However, BPIFrance is not intended to accompany all companies located abroad, but only those which are French, whether they are located abroad or in the national territory. French entrepreneurs abroad may benefit from certain support schemes that meet the needs they have expressed in surveys conducted with them by the network of foreign trade advisers of France and CCI-FI. You mentioned the experiment of VIE that was launched in the spring of 2021: these VIEs may be on mission to local companies under foreign law run by EFEs. As at 31 August 2021, six VIE positions had been created, with the full deployment of the initiative being hampered by the covid-19. It should also be recalled that some French public funding is available to EFEs. These include the financing of Proparco, the subsidiary of the Agence française de développement (AFD) dedicated to the private sector. On the one hand, the ARIZ guarantee – accompaniment of the risk of financing private investment in the intervention zone – makes it possible to partially cover loans granted to SMEs by financial institutions in the intervention countries of the group. This tool helps to support companies owned by EFIs with the help of economic services that participate in their good information and identification. On the other hand, the Choose Africa initiative was strengthened in 2020 with the deployment of Choose Africa Resilience, which mobilises a state guarantee of 160 million euros as well as EU funds to deploy nearly 1 billion euros in favour of African TPEs and SMEs, including those owned by French entrepreneurs abroad. Finally, EFEs holding companies that import their products from French structures benefit indirectly from all the export support allocated to them, in particular in the case of the emergency plan and the France Recovery Plan, which also enable them to maintain their presence internationally. In addition, a social assistance scheme has been in place since last year to help French foreigners who are experiencing material difficulties as a result of the health crisis; It also concerns EFEs. Through these mechanisms, targeted support is provided to the French abroad. Their situation is given special attention by relaying embassies, state operators, French foreign trade advisers and French chambers of commerce abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u107	Mr Stéphane Vojetta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u108	We welcome these support measures, which are a first step towards the recognition of this category of enterprises and entrepreneurs. I am myself a French entrepreneur abroad – or at least before my election. However, the first steps must, by definition, be followed by additional steps, especially when one sees that the last French unicorns to be born are actually based in Silicon Valley or outside the borders of France. There would be a strategic interest in analysing the possibility of going further than the current structure by maintaining a capitalistic link.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u109	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to put his question, No. 1549, concerning the CDI "four seasons" in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u110	I would like to ask you about the implementation of the territorial road map for the revival of tourism in Corsica, and in particular the CDI 'four seasons' mechanism called for by tourism professionals in Corsica, which is to be tested shortly. This scheme is a contract consisting of eight months of activity, a period of leave and a training component. According to the Government, it will be an opportunity to test the conditions for an annualization of working time for seasonal workers in island enterprises. It aims to address the concerns of socio-professional institutional actors in a region with nearly 7,000 regular seasonal workers and more than double seasonal jobs, where tourism accounts for 30% of GDP, compared to an average of 7% nationally. As such, the CDI "4 seasons" won four virtues. Firstly, it is a matter of improving the socialisation of workers in the tourism sector by obtaining a CDI and thus providing them with professional security. Secondly, it should enable tourism companies to maintain their activity throughout the year and to retain qualified managers and train employees. Thirdly, it must facilitate the opening up of this sector to the island population, in particular by increasing the attractiveness of its training sector, which is currently not sufficient to cover the needs of the sector. Finally, it is a matter of building a win-win mechanism that will also enable the State to achieve substantial savings through job creation in CDI. In addition, I would like to warn you that some of the 9000 tourist companies listed in Corsica have not yet received a document allowing them to carry out a prior assessment of their needs. However, a concerted approach is essential if the scheme is to be consistent with the real needs of island businesses and workers. I would therefore like to know your intentions in this regard and ask you to commit yourself to achieving these various objectives as part of the establishment of the CDI "four seasons" system in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u111	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u112	The implementation of this experiment is based on an analysis of needs and how to respond to them. Three working meetings have been organised by the DREETS – Regional Directorate of Economy, Employment, Labour and Solidarity – of Corsica since last June, in close association with the representatives of the socio-occupational categories. The diagnosis should identify the number of enterprises involved in the procedure in the form of a survey. The survey measured employers' expectations – 85% of companies want to start an experiment to retain their employees – but also gave a clearer view of the types of seasonal contracts that would be affected. The survey shows – and this is very important – that 64% of contracts that could be offered by employers are qualified jobs under a six- to seven-month contract, while contracts under six months represent only 12% of the total. Nine out of ten contracts are recurrent contracts and two thirds of employees work less than 43 hours a week. Finally, the distributed questionnaire also asked companies whether they wished to volunteer to experiment with the "seasonal CDI". Dozens of companies volunteered to experiment with it. Twenty-four institutions were selected at this stage based on selection criteria established with the working group, including the duration of the proposed CSDs, which must be at least eight months, or at least six months with many overtime. The State therefore acts, with the professionals, in the service of the economy and employment in Corsica through a transparent consultation involving the community of Corsica. We are entering an operational phase, since the next step is the validation by the working group of an experimental protocol. It will then be used by voluntary companies in the selection process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u113	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u114	Thank you for your answer, Madam Deputy Minister. As you have grasped, the scheme responds to a real expectation from tourism-related companies in Corsica. The idea is not new; It is defended by a large number of entrepreneurs from a win-win perspective, and the crisis of the covid-19 has only reinforced the need for this mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u115	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to put his question, No. 1545, on the procedure for divorce of frontier workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u116	I want to raise the complex and sensitive question of the consequences of the amendment of the Swiss Civil Code in January 2017 in the context of the divorce proceedings of French frontier workers. On that date, Switzerland, together with Article 63 of the Federal Law on Private International Law, voted the exclusive jurisdiction of the Swiss court over financial assets held in Swiss territory. This exclusive competence is problematic because of the Swiss pension system, which is funded and not distributed, as we know in France. As the frontier worker often chooses the Swiss pension system, the second and third pillars of retirement are subject to Swiss jurisdiction; they correspond to the amounts saved by cross-border workers through the Swiss funded pension scheme. The problem is that, in Switzerland, these pillars, recognized as common property, are subject to division during divorce in the event of a matrimonial regime of the community of property reduced to acquests. In our country, however, retirement savings are considered a clean asset if the second pillar has not been started. Rule change is all the more problematic as it occurs along the way, often well after the date of the choice of matrimonial regime. In concrete terms, since January 2017, a French border residing in France, married in France under the matrimonial regime of the community of property reduced to acquests and divorcing in France is nevertheless subject to the sole Swiss jurisdiction. Consequently, in the majority of cases this same frontier is required to share the consolidated capital in Switzerland, despite the conclusions of the French justice system. This has the effect of drastically reducing the retreat of the border, and sometimes even nullifying it. This is not a case in point, but a concrete reality experienced by many French citizens, workers or former workers in Switzerland. What response does the Government intend to give to these frontier workers living in France? What do you intend to do to put an end to the primacy of Swiss law over the right to retirement of French citizens and to impose the application of French law for the benefit of French citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u117	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u118	Under French law, pension and retirement funds are taken into account for the liquidation of the matrimonial regime. Under Swiss law, the division of occupational pension assets does not fall under the matrimonial regime. Article 122 of the Swiss Civil Code lays down the principle of a fair sharing of pension rights, irrespective of the marital status of the spouses. The exclusivity granted to Swiss courts since the 2017 reform has consequences on the recognition of foreign judgments that have already ruled on the liquidation of the matrimonial regime. The sharing decided abroad is therefore not recognized in Switzerland. Therefore, a new procedure may be initiated, thus calling into question the solutions already found. In order to avoid a different division of assets in France and Switzerland, French courts could refrain from sharing Swiss professional pension assets. This would imply that they apply a rule of Swiss private international law, which they are not obliged to do. The spouses may also waive the distribution by half of the pension rights provided for by Swiss law, by means of a convention on the effects of divorce and on the condition that adequate old-age and invalidity insurance is provided in accordance with Article 124b of the Swiss Civil Code. However, this waiver is only possible during the divorce proceedings and not in the marriage contract. Signed between the European Union and Switzerland, the Lugano Convention on Jurisdiction and the Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters is not applicable here because the status of persons and matrimonial regimes is outside its scope. The negotiation of a new international convention with Switzerland could be initiated in order to resolve this difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u119	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u120	I would like to stress not only the importance, but also the urgency of this matter. The time for international negotiation is not always that of the urgency of these individual situations, which can bring about a precarious number of former frontier workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u121	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u122	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u123	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to put his question, No. 1529, on housing shortages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u124	Madam Deputy Minister, Imen lives in the Villette district of Aubervilliers. In 2019, she and her husband rented a studio with an area of 15 square meters; the couple cannot afford more in the private market. Very quickly, the joy of a new life turns into a nightmare: with the birth of two children, the studio is too narrow. The apartment is unsanitary, poorly ventilated, humid, infested with cockroaches and rats. The daily life of Imen and his family is invivable; his youngest son, a few months old, had to be hospitalized as a result of respiratory disorders. The services of the city of Aubervilliers found that the apartment was unsanitary, but its landlord refused to carry out work. Imen has applied for social housing which has three years of service. In January 2021, it was recognized as a priority, to be relocated urgently to the social park under the right to housing. But she didn't get the slightest offer for rehousing. She's losing hope. The story of Imen is that of millions of other people who suffer from mal-housing. I hear their distress every week during my permanences. Two million of our fellow citizens are waiting for social housing; Last year, only 13% of requests were met. In my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, almost 130,000 requests remain unanswered. A significant part of the private rental stock is unsanitary; 20% in Aubervilliers. Behind these figures are broken lives, like Imen's. When you don't have a home to live decently, the difficulties are piled up: precariousness, health, school difficulties for children. With the pandemic and confinements, they have exploded, such as the debts of tenants who have not been able to pay their rent due to lack of resources and are now at risk of eviction. What is the Government doing to deal with this housing crisis? Nothing. Since 2017, the number of social housing units built has declined every year; We're planning less than 100,000 today. The construction of new housing has been at the lowest level in 20 years. It is 1 million private housing units that remain vacant, without you doing anything to requisition them. The causes of this disaster are anything but mysterious. You have planned the resources allocated to housing: 4 billion less in the 2018, 2019 and 2020 budgets; increase in VAT on the construction of social housing; Reductions in personal housing assistance (APL) that have affected the finances of HLM organizations; Lack of significant assistance to tenants, who were in debt during the pandemic. Your record is overwhelming! It is not even I who say it, it is the Montaigne Institute – which is still close to your ideas – that points out this in a note published last August: "While nothing allowed it in the candidate's programme [Macron], the President of the Republic has decided, on a forced march, to make budget cuts in the housing sector, focusing in particular on social housing [...], [consequently a system that] risks excluding the most modest from access to housing. In Seine-Saint-Denis, these most modest, like Imen, suffer every day the consequences of your failure. When will you finally hear their call and act to put an end to this scandal? When will you guarantee the right to housing, which the law and the Constitution guarantee to every citizen of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u125	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u126	I agree, it is necessary to strongly support an offer of affordable housing for the most difficult households and for the middle classes. That is why, contrary to what you have said, we are acting to develop all possible supply. We are doing this first to develop social housing, with a target of 120,000 social housing approvals this year. It will be difficult to achieve, but it will result far more than we did last year, since we will be above the 100,000 approvals and probably not far from the target originally set. We are also supporting social housing: for the first time in years, the Government has accepted and Parliament has voted to compensate for the exemption from the property tax for the municipalities that receive social housing. Finally, we are acting by unwavering support for the Urban Solidarity and Renewal Act (SRU) and for a future debate in this House, to extend it and make it permanent. Support for affordable housing is also the fight against unworthy housing, with an improvement in processes, a simplification of the police and a very strong mobilization of the state on this subject, especially in your department. The fight for affordable housing is also the development of intermediate housing and the new affordable rental scheme, which allows owners to rent less than market prices and to benefit from a tax reduction. This will allow the development of housing solutions for low-income households and those most in difficulty. This is also the objective of the first Housing Plan: since its launch in 2017, almost 300,000 people have left emergency accommodation and have received real housing. The mobilization of the Government is there. Construction resumes: 470,000 building permits have been issued in the last 12 slippery months. The crisis of the covid-19 and the air hole linked to the municipal elections have passed and this policy is beginning to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u127	Mr Sebastien Jumel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 1530, concerning the accompaniment of the territories in the face of coastal risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u128	Madam Minister Delegate, in the coming years, many coastal municipalities will have to deal with the measures prescribed in the Coastal Risk Prevention Plans (LRPs), which are being revised to integrate the hazards to a hundred years resulting from global warming. These unpredictable events concern areas exposed to the risk of marine submersion associated with rising waters. There are also cliff collapses, vulnerability to flooding and rising waters in the low coastal valleys; Sometimes the risks come together. In my territory, many municipalities are on the front line, including Dieppe, Le Tréport, the city of Eu and Criel-sur-Mer, to name but a few. On a wider scale, in the Seine-Maritime, 260,000 inhabitants live on the coast; So it's not a small subject. To date, the State has played a role as a prescriber, which has led to the identification of areas at risk and to the promotion of rules and measures of prevention and protection against such hazards, which have important consequences for the functions of the municipalities concerned: to live, to produce and to live together. These provisions are intended to protect the inhabitants and everyone welcomes them; They must also enable them to continue to live and the territory to develop. To date we have no visibility on how the protecting State will complement the actions of the State that prescribes and will commit itself to help meet the challenges of coastal erosion; that is the meaning of this oral question. Populations are beginning to appreciate the changes that will impose prevention plans and turn to mayors with concrete questions. I'd like you to be able to provide answers. The PPRL imposes diagnostics on property owners within its perimeter; They have five years to establish them and bring them into compliance. What financial arrangements are provided by the state to help owners perform diagnostics and compliance? These will only be mandatory if the amount of the work is less than 10 % of the market value or estimated value of the property; On what basis will the value of the property be calculated? Will the cost of estimating property be subsidized by the government? If a property finds a lessee while it is not yet in compliance, what time period will the new owner have to comply? The potential loss of value of property within perimeters and insurance issues is also a concern for individuals. How does the State intend to respond? Monitoring of the execution and compliance of the works carried out by the owners is transferred by the State to the local authorities. How will the state contribute to the funding of the additional positions needed in the communities to ensure these controls? When the cliff collapsed on the RD75 in Dieppe in 2015, Barnier's law had made it possible to compensate the owners and mobilize the communities to rebuild track and rugby fields. Some cities will also have real estate involved in diagnostics and compliance; Can they count on national solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u129	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u130	You interviewed Ms. Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. As you point out, coastal risk prevention plans take into account sea level rise to a 100-year horizon, integrating two sea-submersion modelling maps: the reference hazard of the PPRL and a 100-year hazard, determined on the assumption of an elevation of at least 60 centimetres from the average sea level. Of course, the work to reduce the vulnerability imposed by the LPP on existing assets can be financed through the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards (FPRNM), known as the Barnier Fund. In addition, a flood prevention action programme (PAPI) may define measures to protect against marine submersion. These studies and works are also eligible for funding from the Barnier Fund. To date, eighty-six Littoral PAPIs have been labeled. Moreover, since 2018, the protection against the sea that falls within the competence of GEMAPI – water management and flood prevention – are financed by the GEMAPI tax. In addition to rising sea levels, many of our fellow citizens are concerned about the decline in the coast line. The climate and resilience law provides for the identification of the most exposed municipalities, which must adapt their spatial planning policies. The list may also include voluntary municipalities. These municipalities will carry out a local mapping of the retreat of the coast line, which will be incorporated into the urban planning document. The State has committed itself to co-finance 80 per cent of the maps of changes in the coastal line of local authorities. The municipalities will also have operational tools to adapt their planning strategy on the basis of this fine knowledge. The financing arrangements for development projects are currently being defined and the Ministry of Environmental Transition will ensure that they ensure the sustainable support of coastal territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u131	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u132	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. You will note with me that these issues are all the more relevant and urgent as the Government gave an unfavorable opinion on the adoption of an amendment to initiate the financing of prevention and protection measures imposed by coastal erosion in the context of the review of the Finance Bill. The aim was to use national solidarity by increasing the transfer duty tax by 0.01 %, i.e. 20 euros for the acquisition of a property of 200000 euros, for revenue of 25 million euros. The coastal territories are waiting for the State to respond. With €5 million for cartography and €2 million for the reinforcement of protective structures, there is still room for improvement to accompany the municipalities. I hope we have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u133	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to put her question, No. 1534, on the management of wolf populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u134	I will address two very important issues for my constituency of Haute-Savoie and, more broadly, for mountain areas: the management and regulation of wolf populations and the brucellosis epizootic disease that affects our mountain farms and is a sensitive issue. With regard to the wolf, we are looking for a ridge line that allows for the reconciliation of political vision, the preservation of the species and the preservation of the agropastoralism of the mountain territories. It has become clear to all actors that the estimate of 500 individuals on which the Wolf plan is based is largely insufficient: the counting method must be reviewed as a matter of urgency. We have heard that the coordinating prefects, regional and departmental, are helping to deploy the system concerned. All the actors on the ground are working to reach this ridge line, and we need a strong political signal. The Minister for the Ecological Transition has given one with the improvement of the means allocated to hunters to equip them with thermal cameras. The question now is how to deploy this equipment. Like local actors, I am obviously pleased that you supported the counting process – as the President of the Republic did when he came to the Hautes-Alpes, then the Prime Minister with the speech he made before the congress of the mayors of Haute-Savoie, and finally the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Can you confirm to us, Madam Deputy Minister, that these meetings will lead to actual results by the end of this year? With regard to brucellosis epizootics detected in Haute-Savoie and transmitted by ibex, it is a real health disaster. Only one positive animal in a herd forced to kill nearly 200 animals. It is a tragedy of a lifetime for the breeders, which no financial compensation will be able to console or appease. This risk weighs on more than thirty farms and the production of all our PDOs – protected designations of origin. The rapid eradication of the disease through the targeting of herds of sick ibex becomes essential for the survival of our agropastoral model and, above all, for our herdsmen to continue their activity. Can you confirm the will of the public authorities to eliminate this disease at all costs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u135	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u136	You interviewed Ms Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, who, unable to be present this morning, asked me to answer you. With regard to the wolf, the Government's action is aimed precisely at finding the peak line that you mentioned: the aim is to reconcile livestock and agropastoralism activities with the preservation of the species, which is strictly protected by national, European and international law. Derogations from this protection allow wolf fire within a ceiling set each year in order to respect the viability of the population. Two decrees of 23 October 2020 define the number of wolves whose slaughter is tolerated – 118 by 2021 – and the conditions under which shooting permits may be granted, in addition to the application of measures to protect herds. The aim of the fire policy is to focus action on predation outbreaks; It shall ensure that the allowable limit for the destruction of wolves is not reached before the end of the year, so that herdsmen can defend their herds throughout the year. The wolf population in France is followed by a combination of different metrics and methods, recognized as one of the most complete and effective in Europe. Therefore, at least until the end of the national plan, at the end of 2023, this method of counting will remain the only one recognized. On the other hand, it is essential to restore confidence between the actors – agents of the French Biodiversity Office, members of the monitoring network responsible for collecting indices, breeders, hunters and elected officials. Meetings will be held in the relevant departments to promote the participation of herders and hunters in the follow-up network. The deployment of parallel monitoring without scientific certainty should be avoided; At the same time, communication and transparency on accounting procedures will be strengthened. I would like to point out that while extensive participation in the monitoring network can boost the rise in indices, it is not shown at this stage that it would lead to an increase in the estimate of wolf numbers. With regard to brucellosis, the state is at the side of the breeders. Scientific tests and analyses are under way to determine the most effective method of eradicating this disease in the wild ibex population, which we also wish to maintain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u137	The floor is open to Mr Jean-François Portarrieu to put his question, No. 1537, concerning the construction of a new bridge on the Garonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u138	My question concerns the construction of a new bridge on the Garonne, north of Toulouse. Despite a very strong population growth, the north of Toulouse has only one bridge on the Garonne, that of Gagnac-sur-Garonne. Since its inception in 1964, its attendance has been steadily increasing. It is completely saturated, with the daily passage of more than 20,000 vehicles, including 800 heavy goods vehicles. It no longer meets the mobility needs of the inhabitants of the northern part of the agglomeration. A few months ago, Toulouse metropolis decided to take control of the creation of a new bridge on the Garonne, whose construction is essential for the development of the territory. This is the first time that a territorial community has deliberated on this project, which has been discussed for several decades in the Toulouse region. It is a matter of crossing the lateral canal and the Garonne, to link the aeronautical pole and the new exhibition centre of Aussonne to the A62 motorway, bypassing the municipality of Seilh. This crossing, which will be designed using a multimodal approach, will take into account soft mobility and public transport. It will significantly improve the link between the two banks, from Merville to Saint-Jory, and will contribute to the development of the river's environment. History is accelerating for this project. About ten years ago, the General Council of Haute-Garonne had devoted a study to him. Since 2017 and the transfer of competence to the metropolis, it has been included in the revision of the territorial coherence scheme (SCOT). The decision of Toulouse metropolis allows to initiate preliminary studies in order to define the route and the template of this work, which cannot be a road to twice a track. Both communities have already reached agreement on a financial allocation key for a project valued at some €240 million. In this context, I would like to know whether it is possible for the State to join in and facilitate the realization of this crossing, which is vital for the Togolese north. Two years after the tragic collapse of the Mirepoix-sur-Tarn bridge, I would also like to draw your attention to the need to install an overload detection device for vehicles using the Gagnac bridge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u139	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u140	Member, you are calling the attention of the Minister responsible for transport to the project to build a new bridge on the Garonne, north of the Toulouse agglomeration, to connect the RD2 departmental road at Saint-Jory, to the A62 motorway. He wasn't here this morning, so he asked me to answer you. You are also asking the Government about a possible financial contribution from the State to this operation, which is estimated to cost about 250 million euros. As you indicate, the mastery of this bridge belongs to the metropolis of Toulouse. This operation is one of the fifteen priority projects identified by the city as part of its road plan, which lists 305 projects, amounting to EUR 1.9 billion. The operation is also supported by the departmental council of Haute-Garonne, which participates in its financing. I would like to acknowledge the excellent work done by the two communities, which have agreed on a relevant solution to the mobility issues in their territory. The emphasis on multimodality, and in particular the integration of soft modes, is fully within the framework defined by the mobility guidance law. With regard to the participation of the State, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is already heavily involved in the development of transport in Toulouse, as evidenced by the allocation of EUR 200 million for the construction of a new metro line. The aim of the new bridge project on the Garonne is above all to reduce congestion on the local roads north of Toulouse, in particular at the level of the existing crossing structures, the departmental and metropolitan networks. It is therefore a metropolitan project of local interest; without calling into question the appropriateness of this project decided by the competent authorities, the State is not intended to take part in the financial round table under the appropriations of the Ministry responsible for transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u141	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 1551, concerning the nuisance caused by the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u142	My question concerns the situation of the residents of the high-speed line (LGV) which, in the Sarthoese communes of Connerré, Lombron, Montfort-le-Gesnois, Saint-Corneille and Savigné - l'Évêque in particular, have been victims, for more than four years, of severe noise nuisances. Indeed, since the new line was put into service to Brittany, the residents have experienced a level of noise which makes every daily life difficult, if not unbearable, because of the passage of many TGVs. As early as 2018, I asked here that the state intervene to ensure that compensation and protection measures are adopted to combat this excessive and intolerable noise level. Since the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development (GEDD) carried out sound measurements, this has been officially established. Decisions have been taken, including the purchase of some 30 houses in Sarthe and the creation of sound protections, for a total known envelope of 11 million euros. However, on the ground, decisions are still not implemented and the few protective measures implemented do not have the expected effects. The question also arises of reducing the speed of TGVs by a few tens of kilometres per hour, which is another way of reducing their noise. I would therefore like to know the timetable for the implementation of the measures adopted, whether the amount envisaged is already sufficient to finance the work and how the mandatory follow-up of the provisions promised but still not implemented on the ground will be carried out. Thank you for your answer that I hope to be precise and operational for the residents of the vicinity of the line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u143	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u144	Madam Member, you have wished to draw the attention of the minister responsible for transport to the noise pollution suffered by the residents of the Brittany-Pays de Loire high-speed line – LGV BPL – in particular in the Sarthe. As the deputy minister was not there, he asked me to answer you. The Government is fully aware of this particularly sensitive issue for residents exposed to noise nuisances. As you recall, it was decided to follow the recommendations of the mediation mission led by the CGEDD in 2018 and 2019 and to put in place an exceptional arrangement for the LGV BPL. A budget of EUR 11 million, half financed by the State, is thus devoted to the realization of concrete measures, such as the adaptation of the infrastructure – increased slope, extension of the noise-resistant walls – and the realization of sound insulations, and in some very specific cases the acquisition of houses which are particularly exposed to noise. Thus in the territory of the Sarthe, first works are to be launched in the first half of 2022 for the realization of protections at source. In addition, land acquisition proposals were sent by the prefect of the department in October 2021 to the first three residents concerned in the commune of Connerré. A dozen other owners are also expected to receive similar proposals at the end of 2021, notably in the communes of Connerré, Lombron, Montfort-le-Gesnois or Savigné-l'Évêque. These measures are regularly monitored at local level by the Finance Committee chaired by the Prefect of the Brittany Region and by departmental working groups, the next meetings of which are expected to take place at the beginning of 2022. Finally, the solution you are referring to for lowering the speed of LGVs had been studied by the mission of the CGEDD. It would lead to a significant prolongation of journey times, penalising users of the line. In addition, this reduction would have an impact on trains operating beyond the route in question and would also have a direct impact on the public utility of the LGV. As a result, this solution was not retained by the CGEDD's mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u145	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u146	I thank you for these elements, Madam Deputy Minister, but there are no operational developments. I would remind you that we have been working on this case for four years: even the prefect has visited the area to see these problems. What we are asking is that the minister delegate support this dossier with the regional prefect so that the operators propose the concrete solutions long awaited by the inhabitants. I myself was able to measure on the ground how intolerable the noise was: this has nothing to do with conventional TGVs. Of course, the law we have passed provides that the calculation of noise measurement takes into account peaks and not only averages as was the case until then, but it only applies for the future and does not apply to what has already been achieved. That is why I particularly insist that you defend this matter with the minister in charge, because the situation is unbearable for many people, and not just the few residents you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u147	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No. 1553, on the Clermont-Ferrand-Paris rail link.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u148	On the night of November 1 to 2, three Intercités connecting Clermont-Ferrand to Paris were blocked, and some of the 1200 passengers who were there took more than nine hours to reach the capital, while it took "normally" three hours and twenty-five minutes to make this journey. Of course, I use quotes, as many incidents and staggering delays occur on this line every week. This situation is not only abnormal, it is intolerable. Users are out of control. Economic actors, local elected officials are concerned. Clermont-Ferrand is the only metropolis in France to be so badly connected to the capital. This situation constitutes a major handicap for the attractiveness of this territory, whose economic, scientific, tourist, cultural and sporting dynamism is no longer to be demonstrated. You will certainly tell me that investments are planned to renovate the tracks, renew the trainsets and modernize the line. This is very good, but these announcements date back several years and the improvements they are supposed to allow will not take place for several years. But it is now that the people of Puy-de-Dôme need the situation to improve. Beyond these essential investments, immediate responses are needed. What measures does the Government intend to take by 2025 to ensure the regularity of trains, prevent an increasing number of incidents and allow for a rapid improvement in the travel conditions of users? Moreover, it must be borne in mind that these investments are aimed at reducing travel time on this line to what it was ten years ago! You're talking about progress! Ralliating Paris in three fifteen hours from the Auvergne capital is not an end in itself. Under no circumstances should the investments I have just mentioned be considered sufficient and this line should be left out again. I remember a time not so far away when the objective displayed was two and a half hours. Hence my second question: what about the prospects of reducing travel time beyond 2025? How does the Government intend to work towards this significant reduction in travel time on this line? Is he prepared to make the necessary complementary investments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u149	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u150	Madam Member, you mentioned the incident that led to the blocking of three Intercités between Clermont-Ferrand and Paris at the beginning of November. The exasperation of users is legitimate and it is essential that all the light be shed on the causes which led to this blockage. A feedback was immediately requested from SNCF by the Ministry of Transport in order to better understand the sequence of events leading to the arrival of the passengers of the three train stations in Lyon at four o'clock in the morning. It is of course a matter of avoiding another such incident in the future. Nevertheless, I would like to underline the voluntarism and the total mobilization of SNCF teams present on these trains to accompany the passengers. As you have indicated, the answer lies in part in the investments made by the State, which should make it possible to modernize this line on a sustainable basis, which had been completely neglected by previous governments. By 2025, more than EUR 1.3 billion will be invested by the State in a comprehensive action plan on regularity, frequency and comfort. Between 2023 and 2026, all the trainsets on the line will be renewed at a cost of 350 million euros. The infrastructure will be upgraded for 760 million regeneration. Three development operations are included in the 2015-2020 Auvergne State-Region Plan (CPER) contract, amounting to €45 million, of which €23 million is provided by the State. In October 2020, the Prime Minister announced new modernisation and performance operations, with an estimated cost of 130 million, which will reduce the journey time between Paris and Clermont-Ferrand to three or fifteen hours for a train serving the main stations of the axis. The State has undertaken to finance two thirds of this operation. Finally, at the commitments monitoring committee held in October 2020 in Clermont-Ferrand, the State committed itself, together with the SNCF leaders, to short-term improvements in the quality of service. An action plan has thus been put in place by SNCF Intercités, aimed in particular at the reinforced cleaning of trainsets, the establishment of a reserve train and the improvement of the quality of the information disseminated to travellers in a disturbed traffic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u151	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u152	I thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for replacing the Deputy Minister responsible for Transport, whose absence I regret, to announce these measures. One hundred and thirty million euros extra to reduce travel time by five minutes, it's expensive per minute! Have you ever given up the goal of reducing travel time to two and a half hours, what it was ten years ago? I did not talk to you about TGVs or LGVs because I consider that the priority is to improve the regularity of this train. Last night again my collaborator arrived forty-five minutes late, and the toilets were not accessible to the ladies. This illustrates how catastrophic the situation is and how urgent it is to address it. We cannot wait until new trainsets are delivered in 2025 and desserts are improved: we must act immediately to allow us to wait for deadlines that are quite distant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u153	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor to put his question, No. 1558, concerning the MaPrimeRénov device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u154	Madam Minister, my question concerns the practical application of the MaPrimeRenov' system, which had been launched with strong communication, and which seemed a priori formidable. Unfortunately, from communication to reality, there is a big difference. I am constantly being questioned on this subject, in my constituency and beyond, by our fellow citizens who have believed in your device. In 2020, out of 574,000 applications, only 300,000 were accepted according to the Court of Auditors. Once the file has been accepted, we still have to wait for it to be processed by the ANAH – National Habitat Agency – before we can start the work. Low-income households that have already paid down payments to businesses see their files go astray and remain unanswered, or they are constantly being asked for new coins; and in the meantime they are not being paid anything. As a result, households that have made a financial effort because they have believed in your promises are not reimbursed for what they have made for the work. What do you intend to do in concrete terms to deal with these growing cases? When, in 2020, you reduced the funds allocated to the energy transition tax credit, you said it was to replace it with MaPrimeRenov'; But this tax credit amounted to 2.8 billion euros in 2019, while MaPrimeRénov' has only 870 million: so you have saved at the expense of energy renovation, down from all your speeches. Of course, these appropriations are raised to 3 billion in the budget for 2022, but they are reported to the 500000 housing units concerned, knowing that your target is 800,000 housing units, this is only 6000 euros per dwelling. How could we remedy the 4.8 million energy coffers with 6000 euros of reimbursement, especially since, as the Court of Auditors points out, this system often only allows for renovation of equipment, windows or boilers, and not for a genuine overall energy renovation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u155	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u156	MaPrimeRenov' is an essential device for thermal renovation, and your question gives me the opportunity to remind you of some concrete elements of its operation. The payment of the tax credit, which MaPrimeRénov' had replaced, took place only between nine and eighteen months after the work was carried out: in the meantime, the households had to bear the full cost of the work. Moreover, this aid was very little redistributive, with 20 per cent of the most affluent households receiving 50 per cent of the tax credit. MaPrimeRénov' is calibrated to better support the greenest renovation gestures and modest households. In 2020, 200000 files were filed and 150,000 committed. To date, 650,000 files have been filed, and it is likely that between 700000 and 800,000 will be filed. In 2021, 536000 cases were committed, amounting to €1.7 billion. The response to the commitment, i.e. the time when households have a first response, is four days when the file is complete and an average of fifteen days, missing documents in some files, resulting in an exchange with the applicant. Over 300,000 premiums have been paid under this scheme this year. There is, of course, a gap between the time when the premium is claimed and the time when it is paid, since the work must have been carried out. However, the time limit for payment when the files are complete is between ten and fifteen days. There's still some backlogs. I am aware of this and have asked ANAH to set up a team dedicated to resolving these difficulties, which are sometimes due to failures in information systems. This involves, according to our evaluations, 3000 files, or 0.5% of the files involved. It is a lot, it is difficult for the households concerned and for the artisans: we owe them a solution. Our goal is to find a successful outcome by the end of the year on these difficult issues. But that doesn't change the fact that MaPrimeRenov' is a success. MaPrimeRénov' allows you to finance renovation by gestures – replacement of a boiler, insulation work – because this is often the way households enter into a renovation process. We aim for more global renovations by 2022 through the launch of a new public service, France Rénov', which will accompany households towards more general works, the development of MaPrimeRenov' Global Renovation and the fusion of aids dedicated to the most modest households, Habiter Plus Serenité being integrated into the MaPrimeRenov' system, with more advantageous conditions thanks to the mobilization of energy saving certificates. This renovation policy is working; It is massive, it is redistributive, ecologically just and budgetaryly supported, first by the recovery plan and now by the state budget, and it will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u157	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u158	Unfortunately, your vision does not correspond to reality since the aid provided under MaPrimeRénov' is not massive: there are 5 million energy passersoires and, at the current rate, it would take at least ten years to complete at least one housing renovation, which is not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u159	Mr José Evrard has the floor to put his question, No. 1559, on energy and purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u160	In the aftermath of the Liberation, the battle of coal enabled France to recover rapidly by ensuring its national independence and the freedom of its political choices. The National Council of Resistance created a social state whose people and nation were the beneficiaries. The nationalisation of electricity gave rise to EDF's public monopoly. At the instigation of General de Gaulle, nuclear development took place in this continuity. Brussels' control over our decisions has far-reaching consequences. In real life there is an escalation of suffering and discontent. The opening up to competition decided by Brussels does not make life happier. The bar of the 10 million poor is crossed, while France is the sixth industrial power. The figures confirm an alarming and degrading situation for students, who are supposed to be the country's successor. Food insecurity is increasing: the variable portion of expenditure, starting with food and heating expenditures, has further tightened. In terms of health, lower quality products cause problems of overweight or obesity, diabetes or cardiovascular disease. These products, called low-cost, are not the solution for precarised households, but a trap in which they are locked! In the face of the surge in energy prices, the Government decided to make an electoral gesture by introducing the €100 inflation premium for the 38 million French who earn less than €2000 net per month. Nevertheless, this gesture does not address the problem at the root. It is mainly used to conceal the scale of social attacks since 2017 and the privatization of the electrical system. It is a triple scam, a bandage on a wooden leg, which represents only 8.33 euros per month. In other words, this amount does not weigh heavily at a time when fuel prices are at record highs. Inflation compensation amounts to €3.8 billion, while the Group's exceptional profit was $4.6 billion in the third quarter, an increase of 2200 per cent over last year. Taxation and taxes will continue to increase and the Government will recover much more than it gives. In addition, this small cheque is funded at the taxpayer's expense. It is a mercy in an ocean of austerity, a little air to survive, when the French mostly ask to breathe better in order to live, simply. The facts are stubborn. The prices that count are those that we face on a daily basis, and they are rising dramatically. The bill of electricity, temporarily blocked, announces a painful awakening, nightmare even when payment will be required. Take your vehicle to go to work forced to dramatic choices; The same applies to basic foodstuffs. In this climate of uncertainty and instability that threatens, however, money flows through the presidential investment plan. Every year, 200000 to 300,000 households are affected by power cuts despite the power limitation. And it is not possible to maintain a minimum gas service. EDF's public monopoly has long been the engine and catalyst for a successful economy. Electricity is a common good accessible to all and not a commodity: it is, in fact, outside trade. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] Speculative capitalism considers that it is still hampered by borders that the Brussels Commission continues to want to disappear. There is a need to put an end to the regulated access to historical nuclear electricity (ARENH), a tool of the break-up, and to find the organizational principles of a company that is the most efficient in the world in its sector. There is a need to re-establish the public monopoly which will be able to offer tariffs reflecting the reality of a competitive nuclear which the national economy so badly needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u161	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u162	You interviewed Ms. Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. France has been experiencing a new situation for several months: energy prices have gone up. The Government had therefore taken measures to protect consumers with the exceptional granting of a EUR 100 energy check to nearly 6 million households and the payment of inflation compensation to 38 million beneficiaries. It also blocked the price of gas at its October 2021 level and put in place a tariff shield for electricity. These strong consumer protection measures, introduced to deal with the current situation, must not obscure longer-term structural considerations. It would be wrong to suggest that France would have lost its energy sovereignty: the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union endorses the right of each Member State to determine its energy mix. While national representation will be able to question our choices at the time of the revision of the multi-annual energy programming – the climate and resilience law allows Parliament to decide on its main orientations – solidarity between states, which France appreciates at its fair value, allows us to overcome the peaks of winter electricity consumption. This is a major achievement of the European market. Indeed, if France were to cover its winter needs alone at the time of peak consumption, this would represent a much higher cost than the optimal use of interconnections with European countries, with the key being a negative financial impact on the consumer and, ultimately, on the taxpayer. Nevertheless, the Government remains lucid about the achievements of the harmonised functioning of the energy market in Europe. He knows how to recognize the benefits, but he also knows how to make his voice heard to propose improvements. We are therefore launching initiatives to call on the European Commission and the other Member States to change the articulation of the wholesale market with the downstream electricity market so as to encourage investment in decarbonisation, to redistribute the benefits of electrification to households and to promote the social acceptability of the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u163	Mr Vigier has the floor to put his question, No. 1524, on the financing of paediatric emergencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u164	In this year 2021, the first stage of the reform of hospital financing, the reform of emergency financing is under way. In France, these services receive 21 million patients each year, including 6 million children in paediatric emergencies; Of these, half, or about 3 million, are engaged in highly specialized services. There has been a broad consultation with the emergency workers regarding the reception of adults, but this did not concern paediatricians – which is surprising. Previously, the delegated minister, the activity determined the staffing of services. The system has been modified – it was also necessary: now 60% of the amount of their funding depends on the activity, while 40% is based on it. However, where the damage is caused is that the pricing is not the same according to the age of the patients: for example, it is set at 27.90 euros for the care of children under 16 years of age, but increases to 50 euros for patients over 75 years of age. As a result, the allocation of services will vary depending on the age of the patient. This system is not good – I remember my boarding school at Necker Hospital about 40 years ago: taking a blood test on a few days old infant requires technical competence and this act cannot be performed by a single person; It is necessary to hold the child, in total this often three people who are mobilized. The same applies to stitches or the laying of plaster. It is therefore incomprehensible that the remuneration for the care of a child is lower than that for the care of an adult, whereas more time is devoted to it. In addition, there is a second element, that of modifier coefficients: certain medical acts, such as medical biology, are less valued when they are delivered to children than they are when they are performed on adults. If I draw your attention to these issues, it is because the paediatric services are already in tension. They are all the more so as they are currently facing an upsurge in bronchiolite cases, after being on the front line during the covid-19 epidemic and suffering from a problem of attractiveness. I had also asked Minister Olivier Véran to examine the bill to finance social security. You were here, Madam Associate Minister, and you know my commitment to these issues. As much as the stated ambition to reform the funding of hospitals, and of emergencies in particular, is essential, so much so that paediatrics should not be left aside. This French specialty is recognized in Europe and the world for its immense qualities. Let us not send these professionals, doctors and medical personnel, who love their service, an unacceptable message.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u165	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u166	Your question gives me the opportunity to recall that the reform of the financing of emergencies and mobile emergency and resuscitation structures (SMUR) has been co-built with all the actors – including the trade unions and the learned society of the emergency workers – who have been coordinated. The reform has three main objectives: better articulation of emergency and unscheduled city care, recognition of the intensity of care and measurement of the quality of care in the structures. The negotiations allowed agreement on the revision of the funding methods that will be undertaken tomorrow: a population allocation, an emergency patient package (EPF) supplemented, if necessary, by one or two supplements related to the burden of care, supplements corresponding to the use of technical trays and specialists, as well as the exercise of their activities at night and on public holidays. Emergency workers take care of 60 per cent of the admissions of persons under the age of 18 to emergency facilities and, in the vast majority, the interventions of the SMUR concern children. Two elements of funding are effectively age-modulated: the emergency package and the biology supplement. This modulation is in no way – I want to reassure you on this point – a less valuing of paediatric activity, but it is based on the reality of care that requires less action for children than for their elders. We ensured that the reform would not affect emergencies for many children, including a mechanism to neutralize possible negative effects that would not have been anticipated. The calibration of the new packages has been ensured for the 650 establishments with emergency services and corresponds to the average balances of these. However, it may be appropriate to refine this model for institutions that provide exclusively paediatric emergency activity – just under 20 structures are involved – and often have a higher activity than the average, as at the moment in particular. The ministry's work continues with the representatives of the emergency workers and paediatricians, in order to better identify and value the heaviest paediatric care and specific organizations, and in order to fully meet the ambition we share.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u167	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u168	I hear your answer, Madam Deputy Minister, and I see signs of appeasement. But we need to continue this consultation – you can't see everything, it's normal – because the issues I have raised with regard to pricing are still on the table. If you want to send a strong signal, give the best Christmas gift to children who go through emergencies and staff who show extraordinary dedication and skill, you have to give them a positive response by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u169	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No. 1528, on the provision of mental health care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u170	As a result of the health crisis, the mental health of many of our fellow citizens has deteriorated dramatically. All social categories are affected: young people, of course, but also the active and senior. Nearly one in five Frenchmen suffer from mental disorders, or 13 million of us. What is the Government doing to respond to it? Last September, at the closing of the mental health and psychiatry foundations, President Macron promised "a massive effort." Widely awaited by the professionals, this meeting was to be an opportunity to make strong announcements to a sector in constant tension. In 30 years, the number of beds in psychiatric hospitals has decreased by half, despite the increase in the population. At the same time, the number of staff is down: 30 per cent of posts are vacant in this sector, and nearly 60 per cent of psychologists are contracted in the public hospital, pending a hypothetical tenure. The 30 measures announced on the basis of mental health and psychiatry are not up to date. For example, the Government plans to create 800 posts in medical-psychological centres (CMPs) for all occupations; But when we know that some 2000 CMPs cover the entire territory, this represents less than one position for three CMPs! Everywhere – especially in my electoral district of the Seine-Saint-Denis – the CMPs fall under the demands: the wait for a first consultation varies from six months to a year and a half. Can the management of a mental disorder endure such an abnormally long delay? In this same department, which already has major difficulties, a single psychological aid office is planned for 60000 students: how to explain it? There are countless expectations. Finally, I would like to refer to the situation of hospital psychologists and paid psychologists in the private medical and social sector: why were they excluded from the revalorisations of the Ségur de la santé? Why not listen to their comments about the limits of the arrangements for reimbursement of liberal consultations, of which they are the only ones to have experience?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u171	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u172	You are right, Mr Corbière: the health crisis reminds us every day that the mental health of our compatriots is one of the major issues of public health. The foundations of mental health and psychiatry, which took place in September, were discussed. As a result, the President of the Republic announced strong measures to improve access to care and the quality of care: I am thinking of taking over, through health insurance, a psychological support benefit provided by a psychologist in the city, the strengthening of adult and infant-child mental health centres, or the creation of beds on demand – all of which complement the efforts made since 2017. I don't know any government that has invested so much in this major sector, and for so long. As a reminder, 110 million euros of additional perennial credits were granted to public psychiatric institutions in 2020 and 2021, in line with the priorities of the Mental Health and Psychiatry Roadmap. Additional envelopes have been allocated under the Secur de la santé, in particular to strengthen medical-psychological centres and multidisciplinary health centres in psychologists. At the same time, we must increase the attractiveness of these professions; hospital psychologists have also been provided with additional informational treatment. The mixed exercise between city medicine and the hospital will be facilitated in 2022, and the salary and compensation awards resulting from the Ségur de la santé will affect more professionals working in psychiatry services. Finally, two structural projects relating to mental health are carried out in connection with the actors concerned: the reform of the financing of psychiatry, which will enter into force in 2022, and the reform of the authorisation regime for psychiatry activity, which will take place from 2023 onwards. These two major projects will permanently transform this sector, which is crucial for access to care. Without detailing all the measures we have taken, I will insist on the constant and determined ambition that we have for psychiatry. The Government is responding to strengthen the national policy to support mental health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u173	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor to put her question, No. 1535, on the SMUR of Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u174	I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister Delegate, to the shortage of doctors in the teams of mobile emergency and resuscitation structures (SMUR) in Pas-de-Calais. Again this summer, some hospitals in the department were forced to close their SMUR several consecutive days, due to lack of doctors available – they have had positions not filled for several years. For example, the Polyclinic of Hénin-Beaumont closed its night emergency service in the summer of 2021, until 13 September, due to a lack of staff. Two examples illustrate the critical situation in which emergency and resuscitation services are located in Pas-de-Calais: the hospital in Lens, where more than ten positions are vacant, and the polyclinic in Hénin Beaumont, which has five positions to fill but which fails to recruit the necessary staff. Due to the wave of resignations and defections in emergency services since 2018, it is no longer possible to maintain all the SMUR teams in Pas-de-Calais on a continuous basis. The situation gets worse especially when staff take their leave. These closures have an impact on other emergency services, as the operating SMURs take over from those that are closed. The situation reaches a very worrying level and worries practitioners and caregivers, who fear that they will not be able to rescue the population in case of serious danger – when a SMUR is called for a vital emergency, its remoteness can have dramatic consequences: the delay of intervention increases, and the chances of survival of the Pas-de-Calaisiens decrease drastically. As a result, hospitals in Pas-de-Calais can no longer provide one of their public service missions to their population, and are struggling to recruit emergency doctors. The Government has certainly removed the numerus clausus, but it takes more than ten years to form an emergency officer! Moreover, the career as an emergency physician suffers from low attractiveness and lack of mobility. What solutions does the Government intend to deploy to ensure that all Pas-de-Calaisians have a right of access to emergency care? Is it not necessary to reform the emergency services?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u175	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u176	Thank you, Madam Member, for devoting a question to our beautiful department of Pas-de-Calais. You are aware of the difficulties we are encountering at the national level to ensure complete watchtables. I have ensured that this matter is dealt with. To this end, work has been carried out jointly by institutions, regional health agencies (RHAs) and representatives of emergency workers, declining the emergency reconstruction pact. In order to respond to the most immediate emergency for patients, organisational adaptations are already in place in Pas-de-Calais. Thus, in close connection with the UAS, primary inter-hospital nursing services have been introduced – we could call them emergency paramedical teams. This is a new mode of response for the UAS, in the event of the immediate unavailability of the SMUR, which guarantees secure management while respecting the response times. To combat the lack of medical resources, our main lever of action lies in inter-hospital support for emergencies: concretely, practitioners from one institution in the region are strengthening in another institution, in a logic of territorial solidarity and pooling resources. A regional framework has been established for this inter-hospital support; it lays down uniform remuneration arrangements, in order to avoid competition between institutions, as well as organisational arrangements guaranteeing proper functioning. It applies not only to hospital practitioners, but also to junior doctors, doctors of other specialties, and even young retirees. The objective is to mobilize all available skills to concentrate the emergency resource where its added value is essential: emergency medicine. The scheme will be completed by the end of the year with a regional tool that will cross needs and availability. In the longer term, the graduate degree in emergency medicine and the abolition of the numerus clausus will increase the number of emergency workers, and will do without the device I have just described, which fills decades of investment gaps. The Government therefore responds, with local actors and in consultation, to ensure the continuity of care in the department of Pas-de-Calais as well as throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u177	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u178	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Deputy Minister. I can count on your investment to address our common concerns in the department of Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u179	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor to put his question, No. 1538, on access to care in the country of Caux.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u180	Like many rural areas, my territory, located in the heart of the country of Caux and the country of Bray, in the Seine-Maritime, suffers from a medical offer too poor in relation to the needs of the inhabitants. This impoverishment is partly the result of a territorial organisation of care which seemed rational on paper, but which is totally inconsistent in practice – in addition to concentrating resources in urban areas. To take a first illustration, the living pools are zoned – from a very sub-dozen zone to a given area – according to the number of practitioners who practice there. Aid is intended to encourage practitioners to move to the less well-off areas. However, the zoning of physiotherapists is established for five years on the basis of INSEE data which, several years old, does not reflect reality. Half a decade is a time of pause a little long to get accurate photography of the number of professionals in a territory! This is why there is only one physiotherapist in the municipality of Cany-Barville in a living pool of 15,000 patients, classified as an intermediate area, while there are eight in the municipality of Saint-Valéry-en-Caux, considered a deficit. Of course, the new physiotherapists prefer to move to Saint-Valéry-en-Caux rather than to Cany-Barville, in order to benefit from the installation aids – everyone can understand that. As a second illustration, let us take the regional health plan: every five years, it determines the provision of care in the territories according to the needs identified. It turns out that the commune of Néville is home to an attractive structure for new generations of practitioners, the Caux Littoral Clinic, which has the capacity to recruit professionals. She has been trying for two years to obtain the Community Hospital label, but is systematically facing the refusal of the RSA, on the grounds that the regional health scheme, established four years earlier with eight-year-old INSEE data, had not identified health needs in this area of life at the time. It is therefore necessary to get to Dieppe, an hour's drive from Neville, to Fécamp or to Yvetot, while there is no means of public transport to do so. The ARS explains to the 30000 inhabitants of the territory that they only have to make an hour's car – if they own one – if they need it! Of course, the state is injecting EUR 19 billion into more than 3000 establishments. Of course, the salaries of health professionals have increased. Of course, the removal of the numerus clausus makes it possible to train more than 10,000 doctors this year. And of course, we've gone from 10,000 to 1 million teleconsultations a week. However, after the departure of four general practitioners in 2021, some of the citizens of the Côte d'Abâtre region no longer have access to consultations. Ambulance services are overflowing, as are emergency services. What solutions are envisaged to better distribute health professionals in rural areas? There are avenues, but they are blocked by a regional health scheme that favours metropolises and university hospital centres (CHUs). What should be done to ensure that the Néville clinic receives the Community Hospital label and serves as the basis for a future territorial health professional community (CPTS)? How do you intend to ensure access to the care of the inhabitants of rural areas, especially when they do not have a means of transport?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u181	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u182	The number of general practitioners or direct access specialists has been declining steadily since 2010, which could continue until 2025. You know the main reason: a limited numberrus clausus. That is why we have removed this limitation; We will see the results when the students complete their training. As long as this problem is resolved, we must deal with the current situation – the stakes are indeed high in some territories, including yours, marked by numerous retirements. I share your concern in my constituency, and I know how much you are mobilized in this area. The Government had very quickly proposed a panel of solutions, as there was no single response in that area, particularly for the areas in tension: local specificities must be taken into account and the actors in the territories trusted. This strategy is being deployed – I understand that you discussed it yesterday with the teams of the ARS, which has been mobilised for a long time and is listening to local elected officials and professionals. The dynamics of the CPTS are an enlightening example of the innovation capacity of professionals in the same territory, who are encouraged to organize among themselves to meet the needs of the population. It contributes to the development of master's degree, and facilitates relations with the hospital as well as with social services. In this way, the CPTS improves the situation of the territories. A CPTS is also being set up in Yvetot, a symbol of real local dynamics; Also note that a few days ago, Cany-Barville's liberal and outpatient health centre was inaugurated. Collective efforts must, of course, continue, but the tools are available. The coordinated exercise is developing, the links between city medicine and the hospital are strengthening, and the ecosystem is becoming more attractive. Some of the measures we have taken are structural in nature and cannot produce immediate results. That is why we have doubled them with provisions with short-term effects, such as the creation of 4000 medical assistants or the deployment of 400 general practitioners. In addition, your territory is eligible for support for the installation and maintenance of healthcare professionals, Mr. For all French people, we must continue to strengthen medical demography; This is the constant line of the current and previous government – we are stepping up our efforts in this area; It will increase training places, while reviving the attractiveness of this beautiful activity, which is medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u183	Mr Yves Hemedinger, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1542, concerning the Segur premium for all health workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u184	The 183-euro net premium, introduced by the Ségur de la santé and granted to the many professionals in the medical and medico-social sectors, is to be welcomed. Even if it remains very insufficient, this bonus reinforces the recognition of the professions so essential to our society and the personnel involved. I also welcome the extension of this measure to 65,000 new beneficiaries of the private non-profit sector who were previously, and like many other players in the sector, excluded from these agreements. We had to fight, but, we must recognize, the issue is settled. On the other hand, the situation is further complicated by the fact that the Government's promised premiums are not fully offset, which puts a burden on the finances of our health facilities. This is not acceptable because it is to charge others for the decisions taken by the Government. To illustrate my point, I will give the concrete example of an establishment in my constituency that received, for 2021, a grant from the regional health agency (ARS) of 260654 euros, while the projections of this institution show an estimated cost of this premium of 354637 euros, i.e. a differential of almost 94000 euros. Moreover, since 2005, the Fillon reduction, also known as the general reduction in employer contributions, allows the amount of employer contributions to be reduced on low wages. However, the increase in wages introduced by the Sécur de la santé agreements results in a drastic reduction in the number of employees' salaries, in fact, of the facilities available to these health-care establishments. This increase in employer contributions, which these institutions pay, does not appear to have been anticipated by the Government since it does not form part of the calculation of compensation for premiums paid. To follow the concrete example of the same institution, this situation places on it an increase in the charges of EUR 140000 for the financial year 2021 alone, an amount which must be added, like a little a double penalty, to the almost EUR 94000 uncompensated, the overload for the structure thus reaching some EUR 234000 for a single year. While our institutions have been in tension since the beginning of the health crisis, they are experiencing chronic recruitment difficulties – even more difficulties due to the loss of staff as a result of compulsory vaccination of caregivers – the partial compensation of Segur premiums and the loss of the benefits of the Fillon system weigh heavily on them. Therefore, my question is simple: what do you intend to do to ensure that these premiums are fully compensated, a compensation which will obviously have to take into account the loss of the benefits associated with the Fillon reduction, in order not to further weaken the establishments in this important sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u185	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u186	The issue of compensation for Segur premiums for health facilities is central, and the Minister of Solidarity and Health is paying full attention to this issue. Important work has been done in recent months to ensure that the final envelope in the construction of ONDAM – the national health insurance expenditure target of 2021 – will be sufficient and properly distributed among institutions to compensate for the premium payments. Numerous checks already show that there is no underfunding of Ségur at macroscopic level. The so-called Fillon reliefs that you mentioned were taken into account because some actors, including federations, had of course alerted the Government on this point. There is still a stake in the precise distribution of amounts between hospitals, and you are right to report it. At this point, I would like to point out that the entire Segur envelope has not yet been delegated. It is therefore normal that the compensation that goes back to you should not be consolidated to date. This technical work will continue and should be completed by the end of the year. Different distribution methods are being refined with federations and professionals. However, the upgrading of the emoluments of hospital practitioners – through the exclusive public service commitment allowance – has a cost of 450 million euros in full-year, plus 191 million in salary increases for interns and students. On the other hand, the basic revalorisation of remuneration and the targeted revalorisation of the index grids of carers results in a cost of around EUR 8 billion per year for midwives, on the one hand, and for non-medical staff, on the other. To this amount is added the 340 million – and 1 billion by 2023 – of the transformation measures of the work organisations and the collective commitment bonus that will also be available to doctors, amounts which, I repeat, are integrated into the hospital ONDAM. The Government is therefore fully committed to meeting the needs of the population as health professionals, to make these professions more attractive, but also to meeting the institutions that benefit from these investments. The dialogue continues with all stakeholders. Of course, it is the Government's wish to carry out the appraisals expected and advocated by Ségur's policy without weighing on the finances of health facilities, to which we are also working.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u187	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u188	You seem to want to give a full compensation guarantee; I hope that will be the case in practice. Many associations are very concerned because the sector has suffered a lot and continues to suffer. You will also understand that we are often scalded because, if we are announced full compensation in different areas – the municipalities know something about it, with the tax compensation – these often do not happen. I hope that your commitment today, which seems very precise, will be fully reflected in the actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u189	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor to put his question, No. 1543, concerning the maternity of hospitals in Saint-Maurice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u190	I would like to ask you about the maternity status of the Hospitals of Saint-Maurice, located in my constituency, in Val-de-Marne. This motherhood is the first in the Department in number of births, with 20 per cent of births taking place there. Beyond scheduled births, it also provides more than 10500 annual emergencies within the gynaecology-obstetrics department. Last May, following my request, the Regional Health Agency (ARS) of Val-de-Marne agreed in principle that the maternity of the Hospitals of Saint-Maurice should be considered an emergency service. It is a fair recognition of the missions provided and of the work done 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by all the staff who provide unscheduled care. This recognition of the emergency service entitles dedicated personnel to a lump sum risk allowance, known as an emergency premium. However, the management of the Hospitals of Saint-Maurice proposed to grant this premium only to the forty-seven midwives, thus excluding the other officers of the service, nursing assistants, childcare assistants, stretchers and hospital staff. In addition, the management granted midwives only half of the premium, i.e. EUR 50 per month. The management of the Hospitals of Saint-Maurice justified these decisions by the financial situation of the hospital. As the State cannot provide full funding alone, it is therefore appropriate for the hospital to be accompanied by an exceptional grant. It is indeed necessary to upgrade the profession of midwife, to make it more attractive and to retain the people who choose this beautiful profession. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to pay this emergency allowance in its entirety and, on the other hand, to make it available to all staff who carry out emergency missions alongside midwives. As our country has been going through an unprecedented health crisis for almost two years, our hospitals and our health care system are out of breath and in an alarming situation, our human, material and financial support must be massive. You have the opportunity to act in practice for this hospital staff. Is the Ministry of Health ready to intervene, through the ARS, to help the Hospitals of Saint-Maurice to finance the payment of an integral emergency premium to midwives and all the agents of the service?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u191	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u192	You asked the Government about the specific issue of a position taken by the departmental teams of an ARS regarding the payment of the emergency allowance to maternity workers. This is an old question, concerning the non-characterization of maternity services as an emergency service, and a matter which, as instructed by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, is the subject of work with all the parties. In this case, in your facility, an application was filed by the hospital less than a month ago. But the question of recognition of midwives' actions is not limited to this simple question, and fortunately. It is essential to recall the great advances made with the profession, especially yesterday. Olivier Véran, Amélie de Montchalin and Adrien taquet signed a memorandum of understanding with a majority of trade union organisations representing the hospital public service and the Fédération hospitalière de France (FHF). As a result of extensive consultation with representatives of the profession, it aims to meet the need for legitimate recognition of these committed medical professionals. It devotes important advances: the net increase of 500 euros per month per midwife in hospital, with in particular a revalorisation of the grids transposed into the territorial civil service, and a medical exercise bonus which will also be transposed into the private sector; the creation of a sixth year of training in maieutics which will apply to promotion 2022-2023; the reaffirmation of their specific role in health facilities, including the publication by the end of the year of the decree setting up the reference midwife but also of an instruction on the main issues identified by the profession concerning the arrangements for the organisation of work in the hospital. In total, these measures represent a commitment by the Government, welcomed by the profession, of EUR 100 million in 2022. This is a major step forward that will allow midwives to be better recognized in their missions and to be more integrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u193	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u194	Thank you for your answer. We can only welcome the measures that have been taken for midwives. That is what was demanded on many benches, especially by the Members of the Republican Group. However, if you are announcing good news for midwives, you are absolutely not answering the question I asked you about the emergency allowance that the ARS has recognized as an emergency for maternity. The hospital management has decided to pay half, or 50 euros, of it, to pay this half premium only to midwives and not to make it available to all hospital officers who, alongside them, contribute to the emergency service of maternity. So you didn't answer my question at all, but I guess you're going to do it in a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u195	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to put her question, No. 1550, on the CHU de Caen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u196	Madam Deputy Minister for Autonomy, with 25 hospitals and 5700 beds closed in 2020 due to lack of staff and a decrease in ONDAM, the national health insurance expenditure target, by 2022, you will understand that I will come back to you today to discuss the project to rebuild the University Hospital (CHU) in Caen and the Government's commitment not to reduce the number of beds in this hospital. My concern, shared with the unions and the inter-hospital collective, is all the greater because, despite the promises and the arrival of the Prime Minister, we have no precise description of the number of beds and posts in the future establishment. The data that arrive to me do not include the construction of additional space to accommodate these 200 expected beds and the use of beds in other establishments does not guarantee the maintenance of this capacity. The situation is already particularly difficult and caregivers deplore "patient abuse". The development of outpatient hospitalization cannot compensate for the need for beds. The majority of patients now die in hospital and it seems illusory to think of removing these beds even though home care does not follow. What about emergencies when, in Caen, a person waits seven hours to be taken care of, some patients remaining 48 hours before getting a room! And yet, there too, thirty boxes would be removed in the new hospital. Deputy Minister, this project remains unclear and no specific plan is presented to the institution's staff, who remain very concerned. Can you confirm to me, first, that the reconstruction project will maintain a quality care offer by actually keeping the 200 beds that were to be removed; Second, that the CHU of Caen will be provided with sufficient staff resources to maintain these beds, and tell me what these means will be; Third, that caregivers will be involved in the governance of this project and the hospital, the only possibility to improve the situation quickly and sustainably?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u197	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u198	The University Hospital in Caen currently has 1,315 beds and places. Its initial reconstruction project included the removal of 200 beds for adult medicine and surgery. Following the first wave of the covid crisis and as part of the Government's overall reflection on the national need for hospital beds, the CHU revised its project to maintain its overall capacity. The new project of the CHU therefore fully maintains – and I insist on this adverb – the number of beds and places of today. The additional capacity over the initial project will be located in the hospital facility provided for in the initial programme, one of which will be converted into a hospital unit. The pattern of use of the premises of the so-called women-children building has also been revised: they will also accommodate additional beds. In order to ensure the functioning of these new beds, the CHU's strategic plan provides for the maintenance of its entire health-care workforce. The additional cost of this project will receive additional funding of EUR 50 million, as announced by the Prime Minister during his visit to Caen on 16 April 2021. I am therefore making it clear here: neither the removal of beds nor the removal of nursing posts at the CHU in Caen. This project is the subject of ongoing attention by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the ARS Normandy, which, as I know, is conducting an open dialogue with all stakeholders, including local elected representatives. This spirit of dialogue will allow, I hope, to reassure all parties on the mobilization of the State to ensure the necessary investments, to maintain all the nursing posts and to maintain all the beds available to this hospital which is crucial for access to care throughout your department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u199	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u200	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. I welcome the discussion which has taken place several times, on the initiative of the Prefect, with the ARS and the elected representatives, but I would like to convey here the concern of the inter-hospital collective, which I have received again recently. Maintaining the workforce is one of the tough points on the issue, and I thank you for referring to it. It will have to be passed on and checked. I would also like to stress the third question that I asked you: it is important that caregivers are involved in the governance of the project and the hospital, otherwise we will not be able to improve the situation on a lasting basis. Maintaining the 200 beds is an achievement, a good thing, like the 50 million euros announced by the Prime Minister in the spring. We wonder, however, how to maintain 200 beds without an additional square metre in the new building as part of such a project. However, I take note of your answer and hope that my third question will also receive some answers as to the involvement of caregivers in this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u201	Mrs Karine Lebon, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question No. 1531 concerning the inclusion of the word of the child victim of incest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u202	My question is to Mr. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. Madam Deputy Minister for Self-Government, my speech on children who are victims of incest in La Réunion has already, by its own admission, disturbed your colleague, Mrs Elisabeth Moreno, Deputy Minister for Equality between Women and Men, Diversity and Equal Opportunities, at its hearing by the delegation for women's rights on 28 September last, where I asked her about the "parental alienation syndrome", a concept that was strongly contested in many countries, including France, and which would consist of the training of one child by one parent to denigrate the other parent. At La Réunion, it is surprising to note that this principle of parental alienation still persists in cases of domestic violence and that even in this context, the words of the child victim of incest are not taken into account. On 27 October, CIIVISE, the Independent Commission on Incest and Sexual Abuse of Children, gave its first opinion and strengthens our determination to combat this legal heresy. In particular, it makes three recommendations. First, to ensure the safety of the child from the first revelations by providing for the full suspension of the exercise of parental authority and the access and accommodation rights of the parent charged with rape or incestuous sexual assault against his or her child. Second, ensuring the safety of the protective parent by suspending criminal proceedings for non-representation of a child against a parent when an investigation is under way against the other parent for incestuous sexual abuse. Thirdly, to ensure the long-term safety of the protective parent and the child by providing in law for the systematic withdrawal of parental authority in the event of a parent's conviction for incestuous sexual abuse of his or her child. I am pleased to note that your colleague refers to CIIVISE when she responds to my speech by quoting the special commission, led by Édouard Durand and Nathalie Mathieu, which emphasizes the need to "observe attentive listening without questioning the words of the victims." Madam Minister Delegate, how do you intend to make this listening effective in Réunion, when the conditions are not met to hear the child's speech under the conditions defined by law, when, in several police stations, the Melanie hearing is not practiced and there is no dedicated room or filmed hearing, when we see police officers still hearing in uniform of small victims? The Secretary of State for Children and Families recently announced the establishment of a psychotrauma centre in La Réunion, which we called our wishes, but how will this declaration be translated into the reality of these 4000 small victims of incest, when we know that there are not enough child psychiatrists in La Réunion and that the means are 50% below the national average? Are all teachers in schools like me condemned to play, in spite of themselves, psychologists on a small week by subodoring, behind singular attitudes of their students, who are the two or three victims of incest in their class? Madam Deputy Minister, the testimony of these victims is disturbing to all of us. They are waiting for answers to these many questions that oblige us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u203	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u204	On this and so many others, collective action and our joint efforts will pay off. There is obviously no controversy here, we agree. Improving the care of minor victims is one of the priorities of government action, as reflected in the plan to combat violence against children already presented by Adrien Taquet in 2019. This concern was reinforced by the communication, on 5 November 2021, of a dispatch of the guard of seals to the public prosecutors and prosecutors of the Republic, which related to the generalization, throughout the territory, of the child-care units of children in danger, or UAPED, a device which you know and which has proved its worth. It also encourages prosecutors to advocate the use of these units to judicial police officers, whom you referred to. The purpose of these units is to provide, in a single place, a comprehensive and secure reception for the child victim, so that his/her speech is collected in the context of the criminal investigation and, above all, that he/she receives care as part of a comprehensive care. Medical, forensic, social and judicial attention is thus being paid. Located in a hospital centre, these units have a suitable hearing room, where the investigation services go to hear the minor victim. The department of La Réunion now has two units of this type, one in Saint-Denis and the other in Saint-Pierre, whose activity is intended to improve – gradually, of course – the conditions for collecting the words of the minors victims. Be assured, Madam, that the Government and all those involved in judicial proceedings, whether they be the investigative services or the judicial authority, are convinced of the usefulness and benefits of these units. Adrien Taquet uses all his travels to remind them of their existence, and I can only invite you, as well as all the members of your assembly, to do the same, because we will succeed in informing these child victims and in danger of the right places to address. I therefore thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u205	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u206	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. This issue should not give rise to controversy, and we must come together to try to achieve a result in favour of the child victims. I am aware of everything that has been done and I would like to welcome the steps taken by the Government. However, it is still difficult to see that two-year-olds are received by uniformed police officers and then accused of not speaking. It is difficult then to accommodate the distress of the protective parent who must, under penalty of being prosecuted, hand over the child to the incestuous parent during the change of custody. We can't hear that anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u207	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-23-O1068.u208	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Review, re-reading, of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2021. The meeting is adjourned.
