ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic (No. 3649 corrected, 3797).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Since the speaking time of the non-attached Members is limited, I invite those who will now speak to limit their speaking time to five minutes. Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u3	Islamism has declared war on France. The best tribute we can pay to the many victims of terrorism, from Charlie Hebdo's attack to Samuel Paty's slaughter, would be to act quickly and to move from tears to deeds. For, as Clausewitz said, war excludes moderation: "we win it or we lose it". We are opposed not only to the perpetrators of the attacks, but also, above all, to their insidious insidiously propagating a new religious fascism gangrenating all the principles of our Republic. Minister of the Interior, at the announcement of your project, which called evil – Islamist separatism – I finally believed in an awareness that could lead to real decisions. Unfortunately, despite provisions of common sense, of course – which, moreover, should have been taken for twenty years – I quickly realized that this text was not at all at the height of the historical challenge that has been before us. While more than half of the young people of the Muslim faith believe that sharia law must prevail in the laws of the Republic, your president once again has the hand that trembles, your resounding majority, your temporary government. What a missed opportunity! Your project lacks both strength and hope. It does not give the force to prohibit foreign financing of places of worship, nor to refuse foreign states to become owners of mosques. Is it normal for Mr. Erdogan's Turkey to own a large part of the 350 places of worship whose faithful have ties in Turkey? Why did you refuse to prohibit the sale of any place of worship to foreign states? How can we build an Islam of France in these conditions? Your text does not give the strength to expel Islamist organizations that question our republican principles. That was the meaning of my bill to penalize subversive and seditious preaching. Will you dare, minister, dissolve the three organizations that refuse to sign your charter, which one goes in the right direction? Will this text give you the means to do so? It would also be necessary to have the strength to stop repatriating jihadists and their families from Syria when they left the national community by declaring war. Similarly, stop being angelic and naive about terrorists occupying our prisons: they must be isolated longer and further away! Finally, this bill does not give the strength to stop the migratory submersion – according to the words of your predecessor, Gérard Collomb – which makes it completely impossible to assimilate foreign populations who have arrived in our country in recent years. Yes, we must dare to remove the right of the ground, and suspend family reunification for a time, if we are to restore cohesion to the nation. But believing that Islamism can be contained by law alone, or even by force alone, would also be tantamount to abandoning oneself to an illusion. We must offer our youth hope. If preachers have so much success with uprooted youth, in search of benchmarks, it is because our republican model is out of breath. We ask the youth to assimilate, but to what? With the exception of the cult of king money, inaccessible, what do we offer them? The nation was abandoned for the sake of bureaucracy and lobbies in Brussels; our democracy is disused by the oligarchies who defend only their interests; Inequalities of birth or journeys have exploded; the school of the Republic has replaced the learning of our history, citizenship and secularism with the permanent worship of repentance. How can we stop Islamism if you give up concretely applying and respecting our values? How can we ask our youth to vibrate for our motto of "freedom, equality, fraternity" if you deprive it of its meaning, by making your submission with this bill today, as the nightmare of Michel Houellebecq in the book of the same name, which I recommend you to read. I will conclude on equality between men and women: a lot of speeches, but where are the acts? You rejected Mrs Bergé's amendment, finding it inadmissible because it was not directly related to the text. What a proof of submission! In a text supposed to combat separatism and affirm the principles of the Republic, you renounce the prohibition of the most striking proof of separatism, which consists in veiling girls before they have learned to read, to count, to speak or, worse, to walk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u4	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u5	Similarly, you have given up demanding the end of the veil for mothers accompanying school outings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u6	Mr Dupont-Aignan, let me remind you that there are other speakers on the list.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u7	The Islamists are moving forward because we're moving backwards, because you're moving backwards. They manipulate our values to make them a Trojan horse, devour human rights and our freedoms to advance their totalitarian project. We have everything to succeed, provided we rebuild our republic, by deeds, not by words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u8	I am obliged to interrupt, because you have far exceeded the speaking time of five minutes. Fixed by the Conference of Presidents on 16 May 2018, this rule protects non-registered MPs by avoiding the possibility that only one of them may use the full time allocated to them. Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u9	In his speech to the Walls, the President of the Republic made a statement that seemed quite correct to me, and indeed joined the one I have been doing for decades. He seemed to have finally understood, as Jean-Paul Garraud so well says, that the purpose of the Islamists is not so much to separate from the Republic as to take it. He thus stated that we must tackle Islamist separatism, "this conscious, theorized, politico-religious project, which is manifested in repeated deviations from the values of the Republic, which often translates into the constitution of a counter-society". He continued in these words: "there is in this radical Islamism [...] a claimed, displayed will, a methodical organization to violate the laws of the Republic and create a parallel order, to erect other values, to develop another organization of society, separatist at first, but whose final aim is to take control, complete it". The text we are considering seems to me to be part of a very different view of the President's statement. I'm the first one to say I'm sorry. We said, however, in a long conversation with you, Mr.Minister, that we would actively participate in such a national momentum, indispensable to fight against the Islamist hydra, which infiltrates everywhere. Unfortunately, when I discovered your project last December, I found that I couldn't convince you. We are far from a text aimed at combating Islamism and, as other speakers have said before me, successive changes of title are a sad illustration of your political backwardness. More problematic, many measures will apply to all, while the risks they aim to prevent concern only the actions of a small minority, in the words of the Council of State. For our part, we have tabled a text to fight precisely and exclusively against the minority that spreads and imposes Islamist ideologies. It is their defenders who have declared war on us for several decades. When I say "we", I do not only refer to the French, even if we are a privileged target; This "we" is global. These ideologies are on the offensive everywhere, including in some Muslim countries. They target the Middle East, the Sahelo-Saharan band and, of course, Europe, which is not only affected by Islamist terrorism, but also a victim of enterrism in all sectors of society, with the aim of fundamentally changing its nature. Thus, in order to tackle Islamist separatism, we must first designate the enemy. Not doing so is one of the big gaps in your text. To designate the enemy means to become aware of its existence, its mode of operation, its modes of thought, its weapons and its supporters, active and passive. This also avoids any risk of confusion; Indeed, you will admit that there is an inconsistency in wanting to fight a political ideology by drafting a law that changes the rules, more than a hundred years old, applicable to religions. Islamic ideologies are totalitarian and hegemonic. You will not succeed in defeating them by only trying to brake them, to hinder them. On this point, I agree with the question of the Council of State "on the ability of reform to achieve all its goals". This flaw, sociologist Bernard Rougier – whom you have consulted for a long time – underscores it cruelly when he explains that this text must allow to compete with Islamism if it does not eliminate it. Because competing with Islam is not enough, Minister! The bill that I have tabled – and I invite all those who want to isolate the problem of radical Islamism to co-sign it – is not content to want to hinder Islamists by applying technocratic provisions such as reinforced controls or new constraints. The measures I propose are eminently political. They are designed to prevent everywhere the spread, manifestations and practice of ideologies that a minority seeks to impose with the aim of governing the whole of individual lives and social life and guiding all acts of civil and political life. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Islamism has succeeded, despite our warnings, in interfering everywhere, especially because of the weakness, cowardice and sometimes even the compromise of our leaders. This bill is a missed opportunity – I am saddened by it. In the war against Islamists, however, every minute counts: they continue methodically to advance their pawns. It is about the lives of our children, our survival as a civilization, peace in the world. So I invite all those who no longer want to see our values violated, our freedoms set back, our social model replaced and the unity of our nation threatened to come together to eradicate this new totalitarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u10	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u11	Once again, scheduled legislative time deprives this subject of the debate it deserves. First of all, therefore, there is a problem of method, and secondly, a problem of courage: the courage to name Islamism, which this text should have as its object to fight. Yet, rather than doing so, it attacks many fundamental freedoms: some activities, some actors will be subject to increased State control, which will apply to all, while the risks it aims to prevent concern only the actions of a small minority, in the words of the Council of State. This text is part of a global policy to combat Islamism that is failing. Will the Charter of Principles for Islam of France have a real impact? Indeed, the very principle of this type of charter is not new: proposals from Muslims themselves or from the public authorities have already been adopted without preventing the situation we are experiencing today. More than threats of control, will any real action be taken against the federations that have refused to sign? Or will this charter only remain an announcement effect? On the other hand, this text is supplemented by a decree authorizing the registration of persons on the basis of their religious and political beliefs, and not only on the basis of their actions. It is more than time to stop being strong with the weak, and weak with the strong. The Republic was looking at itself; She's now veiling her head. Islamism will finally have triumphed, forcing us to change our way of life, to adapt our right and our public services, to renounce certain freedoms, such as family education, to which the French are nevertheless very attached. Freedom of religion, freedom of association, freedom of expression, parents' right to education are all rights and freedoms that will be restricted. Today, out of fear of Islamism, criticism dissipates, drawings fade, words soften, symbols disappear. Republican values, the precise definition of which is always unknown, give rise to such enthusiasm that you must make them love with sanctions, commitments and constraints. Our ideal must be France. The Republic is a framework that you are transforming into a cage. Our civilization has not been built on the principles of the Republic, but it is the fruit of a national novel that it is your responsibility to share with the greatest number of people. This text is based on the Government's policy of permanent moralization, which is closed to pluralism. It marks a turning point in our conception of the separation of churches and the state. How can this separation continue today when, in the words of religious historian Philippe Portier, secularism "is transformed into an instrument of control of religious conduct and beliefs", which should nevertheless be able to express themselves freely and practice themselves by virtue of the principle of secularism? The state rises above personal convictions to frame them, which is a worrying drift. Even the sports sector, which is one of the most preserved spheres and one of the few places to find itself, whatever its religion or origin, around a common passion, is entangled in procedures of approval and contract of engagement republican because the state has failed to preserve its integrity upstream. State interference in the family, in sport and in associations is increasing. At the same time, it leaves out problems which fall within its scope of competence. How can we give an ounce of credibility to a text that wants to combat separatism but does not address the problem of immigration once? However, it has been repeatedly demonstrated that the two issues are related. The permanent guilt, the uprooting, the communalism, the absence of real landmarks are as many earths of Islamism as are mentioned in the text. This bill makes the mistake of not making a distinction between religions in the name of the principle of secularism: it should, however, be adapted because the fundamental differences between religions justify that they should not be treated in the same way. Indeed, the republican principles behind which you are sheltering do not prohibit the adoption of different means of dealing with different situations. This text refuses, as a matter of principle, to distinguish between Islamism and other religions, resulting in collective punishment for the harms of some. Is this consistent with the values of the Republic? [[MM. Bruno Bilde, Xavier Breton and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] Religions are not enemies of the Republic. Only Islamism is. I say again: you lack courage to recognize it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This text, like many others, will give a positive look to your balance sheet, but it will do nothing else as long as you cherish the causes whose effects you deplore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u12	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u13	A radical ideology has declared war. And it'll be her or us. This ideology bears a name: Islamism. She has a plan to impose the sharia. It has a way to achieve this: not separatism, but conquest, which involves our submission. This ideology has several modes of action. To kill, she strikes in all places: concert halls, streets, coffee terraces, churches, prefectures, schools... we already have more than 250 victims on our soil. To spread, it infiltrates through all pores: in many mosques, as was the case in Lunel, fifteen minutes from home; in some Islamic schools, such as Marseilles; in sports associations or clubs, such as Savigny-le-Temple, where Jews and women are rejected; or even more simply on the Internet. This ideology has of course active and passive accomplices. Abroad, these are states like Erdogan's Turkey, organisations like the Muslim Brotherhood, armed groups like Daesh. In France, it is all those who close their eyes, who accommodate themselves: elected officials, institutional actors, whose petty cowardices of everyday life make the part beautiful to Islamism. This is the case, for example, of all those, including some on these benches, who refuse to prohibit the wearing of veils for young girls, of all those who argue that the wearing of veils is nothing but a freedom that women have at their disposal. Such compromises, made by naivety – or false naivety – or sometimes by clientelism, are criminal. I am thinking of those left-wing elected representatives who inaugurate the great mosque of Toulouse alongside the Algerian imam Tatai, whose preaching is known as violent and anti-Semitic; to the far left and to his indigenist discourses; to some parliamentarians who do not hesitate to declare that the young women who wear the veil are France; to the Defender of Rights, who defends the burkini; to the students of Sciences Po who wear the veil for the Hidjab Day forgetting that, in some countries, women risk their lives to free themselves from it... All accomplices, all responsible! Ladies and gentlemen, the time is grave: this cowardice is dangerously moving Islamism forward. No less than 27 per cent of Muslims in France consider that sharia must take precedence over the laws of the Republic, and 74 per cent of Muslims under the age of 25 share this frightening vision of society. The worst is therefore to be feared. This radicalized young generation is already talking about it and is making a major contribution to the explosion of insecurity: it is now established that the ways that connect the world of crime of everyday life with that of jihad in all its forms are plural and interlacent. In reality, Islamism is triumphing over our values. We give in to freedom, by living in physical and cultural insecurity, by gradually abandoning our freedom of expression, by suffering the constraints imposed on all while they should apply only to the bearers of this deadly ideology. We also give in to equality, tolerating the banality of the Islamic veil, accepting differentiated hours in swimming pools, leaving bars forbidden to women, as in Sevran. Finally, we give in to fraternity by allowing a communalism that breaks the unity of the nation to flourish. We've already given up so much. As fundamentalism advances, our freedoms, values and ways of life are receding. Ladies and gentlemen, Islamism poses an ultimatum: either we succeed in defeating it as quickly as possible, or it will eventually submit us, according to a scenario to the Houellebecq which, I fear, could lead us into a civil war. You want us to believe that you are finally declaring war on this totalitarianism, but who can believe that a Republican contract of engagement will be enough to neutralize Daesh's soldiers? Mr Minister of the Interior, how can you claim to fight against Islamism when within your project you refuse to name and penalize this hateful ideology? Similarly, you refuse to stop the repatriation of the jihadists. You refuse to expel all radicalized foreigners. You refuse to close hundreds of radical mosques that preach hatred. You refuse to ban the wearing of the Islamic veil, even for young girls. You refuse to treat the origin of the evil by putting an end to the migratory submersion and imposing a real model of assimilation. In short, you refuse to fight Islamism. [[Bruno Bilde applauds]] The National Rally offers a real counter-project, of which Marine Le Pen has just delivered the outline. It's up to you, minister. I fear – alas for the French – that you have neither the courage nor the will to do so: deeply 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u14	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u15	The stated aim of this bill is to enable a more effective fight against Islamism, the land of jihadist terrorism, according to the Government. A strong text, a landmark text, you said, Mr. Minister of the Interior, at the end of our debate in committee. The text, inspired by Emmanuel Macron's speech to the Walls at the beginning of October, shares good intentions and good feelings. It addresses the issue of public service neutrality; provides for a strengthened control of associations – which would be obliged to sign a Republican contract of engagement of which no one knew the content a few days ago; tries to bring back through the window some of the provisions of the law, known as Avia, aimed at combating hateful content on the Internet, which the Constitutional Council had driven out through the big door; calls into question, with instruction at home, a fundamental freedom, that of the parents to choose the method of instruction of their children; tries to operate a greater control of cults, thus upsetting the fragile balance found with the laws of 1905 and 1907; or seek to combat virginity certificates, polygamy and forced marriages. But we don't make war with good feelings, let alone when it comes to the war against Islamists. It is not with fear in the belly that such battles are waged. But the first of your fears is to name your enemy, our enemy, the enemy of France: these Islamists who want to impose on us their way of life, their way of view. We see them encroaching every day on the rules of life, in the streets, in schools, in businesses or in sports venues. This fear transpires from the title of the bill "confirming respect for the principles of the Republic". Not daring to target anyone in particular, it targets everyone in general, including those who respect common rules of life and laws, and who live this new text like a slap, a real punishment, almost an insult. Let us say it without false leaks, which threatens our society, our way of life, our civilization, bears a name: Islamism. It is he, and he alone, who wants to make women citizens at the expense, obliging them to wear a veil. The great success of the Islamists is to have made believe that, in the words of Chantal de Rudder, former editor-in-chief of the New Observer, not subject to bail according to the canons of the ready-to-think, the wearing of the veil is nothing other than a "moral obligation to affirm its anti-Western visibility". That is why it is surreal that you refuse to discuss this issue. It is Islamism, and it alone, that dreams of imposing its law on all the inhabitants of our country and demands ever more derogations from the rules that govern our way of life. It is also in his name, it must be recalled, that for several years hundreds of men and women have been wounded, maimed, marked for life, killed. The killers claim to be of him and no one else. Fighting Islamism – and I tabled a bill last week to that end – is also about being alongside Muslims who are anxious to scrupulously abide by the laws, at a time when, as I have repeatedly pointed out in committee, 74 per cent of French Muslims under the age of 25 claim to put Islam before the Republic, and 57 per cent of them claim to be more important than the Republic. What a bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u16	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u17	I cannot conclude this speech without reminding many of you of a truth: our country belongs to Christian civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u18	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u19	[[Marie-France Lorho and Bruno Bilde applaud]] France is in fact mixed with a Judeo-Christian culture; Its space, its landscapes, its monuments, its museums and its literature are intimately linked to the Judeo-Christian civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u20	It's your personal story, not the story of the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u21	As such, there can be no question of putting on the same level the different confessions practiced in our territory. Yes, there is a right of priority! No one is contesting it when it comes to the Maghreb countries or the Middle East. Why don't we proclaim it when it comes to France? [[Bruno Bilde and Marie-France Lorho applaud]] It's your good thinking that makes you miss the target. For fear of being taxed with Islamophobia, you don't name anyone. The word "Islamism" is not used once; You had to dare, you dared! It is a shame for the memory of those who have been killed, beheaded, murdered in recent years in France. Murdered, beheaded, murdered. By whom? By Islamists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u22	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u23	I do indeed wish to react to the outcome of this long general discussion, spread over three days and a little bit fragmented, it is true, for those who follow us. First of all, it is always polite to reply to those Members who have expressed their views, although I will obviously not answer in detail to each of you. Secondly, some of you, especially those who have just spoken, will not necessarily be able to speak during the discussion of the articles, because of the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u25	So it's normal for me to answer them. Interventions were of three types. First of all, there are those who support the text – I thank them – sometimes with flats. I would like to say how open the Government is, as it was in committee, to parliamentary discussion, as well as to amendments and proposals, wherever they come from. Mr President of the Special Committee, rapporteur-general, 196 amendments have been adopted by the Committee. As you can imagine, the Government will remain very open to proposals. Then, particularly on the left side of the House, there are those who, while acknowledging the existence of the problem, consider that the text goes too far or does not provide the appropriate solutions. I regret that this is their point of view. We may have the opportunity to convince them, through a republican, democratic and secular debate – we are all committed, as I know, to holding such a debate – that this is a necessary text and that it does not replace other texts that could be discussed at a later stage, relating to equal opportunities, urban planning, housing, employment and the economy. I have been mayor and remain elected from a territory that is experiencing social difficulties. Without having ever agreed 100% to the Bourdieusian explanations, I am aware that there is obviously a link – one can quite understand this point of view – between what we are talking about and the luxenproletariat, particularly the proletarianization – but not only, because the social issue also plays a very strong role in the conversions – of part of immigration. This is the whole question of republican promise; the Republic will be secular because social, or social because secular – each one evoked in its own way the beautiful phrase of Jaurès that I obviously make mine, as, I believe, any republican. [[Smile on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, there are those who think that the text does not go far enough. I regret that Mrs Le Pen is no longer present in the Chamber; I assume that she has not only come to speak in the general debate and will have the opportunity to participate again in the debate. And I regret what has been said. These words are of two types. On the one hand, there are those held by part of the LR group. Having had to deal with the consequences of the floods in Corrèze, I was not present to hear Mr Diard's intervention – I apologized to him. However, I followed her and found her much more moderate than Mr Ciotti's. I do not depreciate the arguments of the latter, which are strong, which I respect and which we can discuss. Notwithstanding important differences between us – we have not ignored them in the special committee – we can do a number of things together. On the other hand, there are the speeches by non-attached Members, who belong, if I may say so, to the far right. To say so is not an insult; There is a national representation, and we must listen to their arguments and try to answer them point by point. Several groups have drafted their own bill – this is a notable work – to indicate what they believe should have been done. Many of you have quoted the advice of the Council of State in a very precise manner, particularly in order to attack the Government, which is, in fact, normal. Since you have the impact assessment provided by the Government, and for us to fight with equal arms, I invite you to ask the President of the National Assembly to refer your bills to the Council of State. You have every right to do so, and we would be very interested to hear his opinion. This would show the spirit of government that drives everyone here. For, of course, no one would think about demagogy on such an essential theme,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u26	Especially not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u27	... no one would come to propose provisions that are absolutely contrary to the fundamental rights of the Republic! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] According to one of the articles of the bill of the "National Front Group" – I allow myself to designate a set of non-registered deputies, who represent a political force in our country – any legal person who denies genocide or extermination that has occurred in history should be dissolved. If this article were to be applied, I had the opportunity to tell Mrs Le Pen by media intervention, the National Front would have some problems of existence, given the interventions of President Le Pen! Nevertheless, it is quite happy that we can continue to discuss with a political party that receives a large number of votes from the French. [[Mr Bruno Bilde protested]] When I read the next point in the National Front Group's bill... Don't get upset, Mr. Bilde, especially since it's very bad when you wear a mask. Let's stay calm. Mr Bilde and Mr Meizonnet, you blame us for not closing hundreds of mosques that you say are radical. That's a very interesting point. First of all, we propose legislation that will enable radicalized places of worship to be closed, regardless of the issue of terrorism. Then you should be consistent with your previous votes: you did not pass the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as SILT law; At the time when the national representation was called upon, you did not give the Government the means to close radicalized places of worship.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Like the doctors described by Molière, you mention many remedies in the gallery, but when it comes to prescribing them, you say that this is not possible because it would be liberticide. You did it to us in committee, where Mrs Le Pen proved to be the greatest protector of freedom of association; She does exactly the opposite of what she says she wants to do. In reality, you are experiencing problems and do not want to solve them. So be consistent! I imagine you will pass on my remarks to Mrs. Le Pen; I would like us to debate argument against argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u30	The minister's dialectics are worn out...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u31	We could discuss other provisions of this bill. Some pointed out that Mr Briand had been rapporteur of a committee chaired by Mr Buisson – I would not parallel the present situation, even if he would be flattering, Mr President of the special committee, ladies and gentlemen the rapporteurs – and that the committee had studied all the proposals made by Members. If we did, we would find out that there is, in the National Front's bill, a provision on the destruction of certain works. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about Islamism, but never define it. You propose to expel individuals on the basis of a definition that you do not even state! A very important point is that you refer to legislative provisions without ever drawing conclusions of a criminal nature or providing remedies. Besides, you are in a world of construction for the presidential; You remain fairly faithful to the debate of the inter-tours, during which we were able to see the obvious competence of your President. At the moment, the proposals of the National Front are less about the big bad wolf than about the big bad blur! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Xavier Breton protested]] The beautiful verse of Aragon, "Fu qui fait le delicate", quoted yesterday by President Chassaigne and other Communist deputies, characterizes the position of the LR group and, to a lesser degree, that of Mr Lagarde. In the difficulties we face in connection with Islamism, everyone has a share of responsibility. It would be particularly important to consider this responsibility only for the last few weeks, months or years. BarakaCity, may this government dissolve,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u32	You're here to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u33	... was created in the early 2000s. The Collective against Islamophobia in France – CCIF – which this government dissolves, was formed in the early 2000s. The collective Sheikh Yassin, which this government dissolves, was founded in the mid-1990s. The radicalized psalmists of the places of worship that we are closing at the moment came to France in the early 2000s. In the early 2000s, it was true that the depth of this evil was not known, and many things have changed internationally since then. The first Islamist attacks were carried out under quinquennats and governments of different political colours. Ciotti said this when he paid tribute to the Jewish school in Toulouse – there is obviously no hierarchy in horror, but it is particularly atrocious that we were able to attack, in the name of Islamism, children in a schoolyard, because Jews. Let us guard against any anachronism, but let us be aware that political responsibility is not just about the last few weeks or months. Ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, you are basically saying that this text is not bad, that it is a little technocratic, that it is brave but should be even more so, that you have some differences. But we do not reject a large text of the Republic on the grounds that there is a lack of salt or pepper! And doing it because we're approaching a primary and a presidential, is not up to the events. I am sure that the parliamentary debate will meet the challenges. In a special committee, the LR group voted, one by one, on all the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u35	I am a little surprised at the difference – probably the many hours of debate that we will still have – between the publicity that some people are doing around the House and the serious work that we are doing, argument against argument. With a few exceptions, especially for reasons of religious inspiration – in this regard, I stress the consistency of Mr Breton, who has always taken care to distinguish his vote from that of the LR group – you are not far from being able to vote, in the end, for all the articles in the text. How can we ultimately reject a text when each of its articles has been voted on?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u36	We did not vote all the articles!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u37	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] How can one dispute the addition when one has liked the whole of the dishes served? How can we explain that we can do more and more when we present ourselves as a government party? That's not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u38	What a myth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u39	For my part, I hope that we will have a balanced debate and that this text will be one of those that honours the parliamentary debate, as well as the amendments proposed by all the political groups. Finally, as I say in a desire to calm down, the words we heard from some speakers during the general discussion were particularly offensive not only for the members of the Government present, but also for many Members of Parliament, including the majority. While the agents protect the population on a daily basis with courage, it is not possible to lie in the rostrum of the Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I have told Mr Ciotti several times, and I repeat, that Mila is not protected by the Republic is an absolute scandal. Police officers and gendarmes risk their lives every day to protect this girl, and this is the honour of the Republic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] [[Same movements]] Taking over Zineb El Rhazoui, whose courage I too would like to stress, and assert in the Assembly's rostrum that this government does not provide protection, while policemen risk their lives every day to protect this lady, it is outrageous to the police in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We can have differences. We may want to change the Constitution. We may want to change the principle of secularism. You can love cults after you don't love them. It may be considered that a general rule should be made of a particular rule. It may be considered appropriate to prohibit or authorize the wearing of religious clothing in public space. We can consider that each of the articles is intended to be amended – we have frank and strong discussions, which is in the honour of the National Assembly. Simply, on such an important subject, for the good of the country, let us avoid politics and avoid lying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u40	Mr Chenu has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u41	You could let Mrs. Le Pen do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u42	On what basis do you formulate it, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u43	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the subject of two articles of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, first of all Rule 58. You have called into question, Mr Minister, a party that no longer exists, the National Front, and it has never been condemned for the words you have mentioned. For my part, I would never have allowed myself to amalgamate your person with the homophobic remarks made by Mr Christian Vanneste, a Member of Parliament of whom you have been the collaborator. Indeed, I am aware that there is a real difference between these words, for which Mr Vanneste was condemned, and what you probably think. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause from non-attached Members]] My reminder is then based on Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the legislative time programme. Because of the decision taken by your government, Minister, it remains for the unregistered Members of Parliament to defend their amendments and participate in this debate, which is not one of them, 4 minutes and 37 seconds – and probably even less so because of my speech. Knowing that we have four unfortunate minutes left for the whole debate and to answer you, you may at least have the modesty not to question Mrs Le Pen by making such amalgams, which is also in her absence. This is not acceptable; you have no consideration for unregistered MPs while they represent millions of electors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u44	Since you know the Rules of Procedure and scrupulously monitor their respect, Mr Chenu, I would like to point out that the time taken to issue a point of order is not counted against the time allocated to a group or non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u45	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u46	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u47	On the basis of rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to go back to the words of the Minister of the Interior that the LR group voted, when considering the text in a special committee, all the clauses of the bill. For following the whole debate, I know that our group has abstained on many articles and, in the end, voted against the text. Minister, we expect you to have the same sincerity as you demand from Mr Ciotti when you accuse him of lying about the protection of Mila.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u49	Mr Ravier, I would like to admit, for this time, that this was a genuine point of order, although I do not see what is happening to it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u50	Yes! We were deeply wounded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u51	... your intervention is more like a clarification of the Minister's words. But I would like to point out that, in accordance with the scheduled legislative time, references to the Rules of Procedure which are manifestly unfounded are counted against the speaking time of the group to which the speaker belongs. I invite you to remember it for the next time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u52	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill. I would remind you that these 53 articles are the subject of 2200 amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u53	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article before Article 1. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 331 and 332 which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u54	The problem is Islamic separatism, this "conscious, theorized, politico-religious project, which is manifested in repeated deviations from the values of the Republic, which often translates into the constitution of a counter-society". The remarks made by the President of the Republic during his speech at the Walls have been acknowledged. But after you looked in front of the concrete problem of Islamism, we wonder where your lucidity has gone. It does not appear in the text of the bill – including the title of Title I, the subject of these amendments – or in the explanatory memorandum, in which Islamism is not even mentioned. You hide behind great words such as "secularity", "public service neutrality" or "republican engagement contract". All this is very good. But, for lack of courage and lucidity, you chastised the French as if they were all Islamists. For example, home-based education would be subject to authorization, while only 2 per cent of the children concerned were problematic. For fear of being confronted with reality, you prefer to hide your face. Of course, you are putting the forms in it, invoking the ban on legislative riders to avoid the real subjects. The amendments on the wearing of the veil by women or girls, halal food, alternating schedules in swimming pools, burkini, state medical aid – AME –, French nationality, immigration or the setting up of municipal exchange cells on radicalisation do they really have no connection with this text? I don't believe it. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] With renunciation, you leave France unarmed in the face of Islamic separatism. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u55	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter 1 of Title I, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u56	Madam Member, why put forward such a principle of the Republic rather than another one? The principles of neutrality and equality are just as important as that of secularism, mentioned many times in the text. With regard to the second amendment, let me prefer the wording, a little less cumbersome, which I will propose in the next amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u57	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u58	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u59	The rapporteur, Ms Laurence Vichnievsky, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2522.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u60	It is intended to complete the end of the title of Title I by inserting, after the words "the minimum requirements of life", the words "in society", in order to take up the exact formula used by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 7 October 2010, which I wish to read here because of its importance for our debates. In recital 4, the Council states that "the purpose of Articles 1 and 2 of the law referred is to respond to the emergence of hitherto exceptional practices of concealing his face in public space; that the legislator has held that such practices may constitute a danger to public safety and ignore the minimum requirements of life in society; It also considered that women concealing their faces, whether voluntarily or not, are placed in a situation of exclusion and inferiority which is clearly incompatible with the constitutional principles of freedom and equality; by adopting the provisions referred to, the legislator has thus supplemented and generalized rules previously reserved for specific situations for the purpose of protecting public order."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u62	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u63	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u64	I'll make a quick digression. It is often pointed out that this noble institution would benefit from modernization. The three days of general discussion tunnel from which we leave are a brilliant example. As I came from my constituency on Monday afternoon, we are just beginning to review the articles. Seen from the outside, no one hears anything about institutional functioning anymore; We are the last to understand this and we would one day benefit from distinguishing political work from the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u65	There has been another text examined in the meantime! It's your fault, it's the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u66	The Acting Together group has already said all the good things they think about the bill. With regard to Article 1, we are particularly pleased to see it supplemented by an article 1erbis – which provides for teacher training on the principle of secularism – and an article 1er ter which tends to generalize to all administrations the function of referent "secularity". To have myself held this function in my university, I know how useful it is to deal with problems upstream, trying to solve them before they become insoluble. So all this goes in the right direction. In order to translate into law a judicial acquis, the first paragraph of Article 1e r provides that any body directly entrusted by law or regulation with the execution of a public service would henceforth be obliged to ensure the equality of users and to ensure respect for the principles of neutrality and secularity of the public service. Similarly, under the second paragraph, any person contracting with that body for the performance of a public service mission would be required to comply with the same requirements. Neither the occasional collaborators of the public service – the remedy that may prove to be worse than evil – nor the companies that no longer maintain relations with the body carrying out a public service mission would be concerned. Our group supports this choice, motivated by the desire not to interfere in the lives of companies. Allow me to link this article to Article 6, which provides for the signing of a Republican commitment contract for associations seeking or benefiting from a grant. The Deputy Minister for Citizenship, Marlène Schiappa, has indicated that no public euro will be granted to associations that have not signed such a contract, and we agree with it. But between the commitment required of associations and respect for the neutrality and secularity required of public service delegated undertakings, is there not a legal vacuum?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u67	He's a first-hour walker, though. He must have had a lucidity attack!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u68	What about companies that enter into contracts with the administrations by entering into contracts for supplies, services or works having nothing to do with the public service? Don't they live on public money? It seems essential to us that they should not only respect the principle of neutrality and secularism, but also sign a Republican contract of engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u69	So there's no limit to speaking time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u70	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u71	I am convinced that this article can be adopted unanimously by our House, which would be desirable given its political and practical importance. In the trilogy of French secularism which the Minister of the Interior regularly likes to recall, the neutrality of public services occupies a central place; It is this principle that fundamentally distinguishes our model from others in use abroad – in Anglo-Saxon countries in particular – where communalism is the rule, where officials are not protected, where a religion is official, where special rules are superior to the exercise of the general interest. In this sense, the neutrality of the State guarantees equality and freedom. It is precisely the public services that ensure that this principle is respected. But what have we seen for at least two decades? First, neutrality is far too vague a concept for agents. Thus, in the commune that I have run, three years will have been necessary to train all the communal staff in relation to the public. Second, public services – municipal services, hospitals, social organizations – are increasingly confronted with the blows of allegedly religious networks that exacerbate separatist demands in the name of individual freedom. And in the face of them, many elected officials, administrative officials or organizations are not or very little armed. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Third, the scope of the public service has changed considerably over the past 30 years, as both private and public bodies can obtain public service delegations. It therefore seems obvious that they must all respect the principle of neutrality. It is regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that too few companies involved in public action have engaged in negotiations on the subject, even though they are obliged to do so. The reaffirmation of the cardinal principle of neutrality of public services and its extension to new actors must therefore reverse a trend that has benefited political Islamism, which has led us to accept too many accommodations. When the fear of stigmatizing what is only the instrumentalization of religious freedom for ideological purposes prevails over any other consideration, it is the whole edifice of French secularism that falters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u72	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u73	"Hide this veil that I cannot see": this is what I am inspired by the reading of this article. Like several colleagues in the majority, I consider that if the state is secular, society is not. The State is not intended to make religious signs invisible in public space; This seems to me to be in contradiction with the spirit of the law passed in 1905.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u74	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u75	But imposing neutrality on the employees of a delegated company even when their mission is not directly within the public service, this is ultimately to erase religion and its signs. In this regard, the wording of Article 1 is ambiguous; I hope that our discussions will help to remove this ambiguity. With regard to the important point concerning the status of casual collaborators, you have made it clear that they cannot be subject to the obligations of neutrality and secularism unless the Constitution is revised. How will delegated public service undertakings apply Article 1? With what means and tools will they control religious signs tomorrow? In my view, the absence of a definition makes it too difficult to interpret this article, which can create discrimination against employees – including, of course, all those in low-paying jobs, such as housekeepers, people cleaning trains... [[Mr Mustapha Laabid and Mr Bertrand Pancher applaud]] Minister, I see you shaking your head. I hope to hear you confirm that these vulnerable people do not fall within the scope of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u76	She really said anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u77	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u78	After the horror of the decapitation of Professor Samuel Paty because he taught his students freedom of expression, as well as the right to caricature and blasphemousness, after the cruel murder of Catholic believers in Nice because of their faith, after the hundreds of victims of Islamist terrorists, after Mohamed Merah, Charlie Hebdo, the Hyper Casher, it was high time to take the fight against Islamism. Even if we welcome the consideration of this indispensable bill, which includes real advances on neutrality in the public service – the object of section 1 –, on the protection of public service agents, with the offence of separatism, on the fight against virginity certificates, polygamy or forced marriages, on the fight against online hatred or on the control of foreign funding of cultural associations, it must be noted that its drafting does not go far enough. In the absence of addressing, for reasons that are sometimes lowly political or that do not run the risk of unconstitutionality, fundamental issues, the text deprives itself of the possibility of effectively combating Islamic fundamentalism, the land of terrorism. Yes, by carefully avoiding these fundamental issues of immigration, radicalization in prison, at university, at public school, the prohibition of ostentatious religious signs for girls, for school leavers or even in business, and, of course, training – a great lack of a bill supposed to reinforce republican principles – by not naming the enemy, he misses his target and causes collateral damage. Fear of naming things is not a political agenda. Our enemy is political, radical and separatist Islamism. What risks do we take to target him? To offend the French of the Muslim faith? Certainly not: by naming Islamism, one can only help to distinguish it better from Islam. Minister, strengthening republican principles is not a constant restriction of our freedoms. It is also to train and transmit these principles. The associations will have to commit themselves through a contract to respect them, but I regret that they are not offered any training. The sports community is particularly affected by Islamist intrusiveness. However, there is still no training for sports educators. On the other hand, you stigmatize whole families that educate their child at home. In doing so, you are flouting the constitutionally valid freedom of investigation, even though there is no evidence to establish the link between family education and radicalization. You argue that the effective provisions proposed by the Republican Group would be unconstitutional, but, paradoxically, you have refused the constitutional reform aimed at consecrating the pre-eminence of the Republic's laws on the faith that we proposed in our parliamentary niche. In short, this bill is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u79	Neither is your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u80	You risked a metaphor by talking about the "disease of Islamism in France", but, no more than Mr.Véran, you do not stand up to vaccination. To enrich the text, the Republican Group will defend amendments – at least those that have been declared admissible under a certain interpretation of Article 45 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u81	No! Its application!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u82	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] It is high time to protect the French and the Republic effectively. The French ask us, and they deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u83	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u84	The bill aims to combat the threat posed by Islamist separatism. In response to the speech delivered by the President of the Republic to the Walls on 2 October, the explanatory statement strongly expresses that "community enterrism, insidious but powerful, slowly gangens the foundations of our society in certain territories", and therefore calls for the fight against radical Islamism with an appropriate legal arsenal. In view of this so-called determination, I am surprised that neither Article 1 r nor the others more explicitly refers to the danger posed by radical Islamism, even though it is the essence of the text. The absence of these terms could create confusion for citizens. The wording of this article – and of all the following – is therefore not appropriate. The French can legitimately question themselves. Is it a renunciation or a lack of courage on the part of the Government and its majority? This semantic exercise, reflecting the policy of "at the same time", betrays a notable weakness, which will have serious consequences. We must not be wrong about fighting. How can we achieve an objective if it is not explicitly included in the marble of the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u85	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u86	Before we go into the amendments in practice, I would point out, as we did in committee, that our opinion is rather positive on this article, so that the neutrality and secularism inherent in the status of the civil service can be, by extension, constraints imposed on public service delegates. At this point, I recall what these notions owe to our political family. It is indeed to a Communist deputy, Étienne Pajon, that the introduction of secularism is due to the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, which was resumed in 1958, and to Maurice Thorez, in 1946, and then to Anicet Lepors, in 1983, to the affirmation of the neutrality and secularity of the status of the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u88	That is to say, our attachment to these notions, due to their historical filiation. More recently, I read the public service information report on radicalization and discussed with its authors Éric Diard and Éric Poulliat. According to them, in its current design and drafting, the status of the public service is rather protective of radicalization. When there are holes in the scope of public services, it is precisely in the case of delegation, transfer of responsibility or competence to outside providers. Finally, I would like to make two points. The first is for the parliamentary majority, to whom I blame its lack of coherence, because one law does not dispel the other. I remember very well the debates that we had here when we examined the Public Service Transformation Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u89	Oh, yes! Here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC group. – Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our group had followed the hearings and was in daily contact with Anicet Lepors, to which we owe the affirmation of secularism and neutrality in the public services. What did you do by allowing the recruitment of one million civil servants, out of the five million of the three public offices, to be out of status? You broke this one. You have enshrined in time the gradual extinction of the status of the public service, whose main principles are neutrality and secularism. Have a little consistency! By the way, I regret that all amendments aimed at reaffirming the status of the civil service with its secular virtues and neutrality were rejected on the grounds that they would have been horsemen. My second point is addressed to our colleagues on the right – who can also sometimes be friends. Some of them will take advantage of this article to engage in slightly obsessive discourse – recognize it – on the wearing of the veil in public space. In doing so, they will wisely maintain the confusion between public service, public service and public space, a notion that French legislation has clearly distinguished for decades. Before section 1 is discussed, I will therefore quote a sentence given by Aristide Briand during the examination of the 1905 law, when, if the wearing of the veil was less present than today, the outside manifestation of religion existed in our country: "At the moment when the legislator enters the sacred realm of consciousness, we must indicate the principles that inspire us. He added: "The Republic cannot oppress consciences or manage in its multiple forms the external expression of religious sentiment. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u91	The threat wasn't the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Such a sentence could perhaps exonerate our debate from all obsessive amendments on the veil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u93	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u94	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] If I take the floor, what I had not planned to do at this stage is to respond to the minister who has engaged in a form of provocation that is customary. I have read with interest his institutional communication, widely relayed, aimed at announcing the birth of a new Darmanin, calm and soothing; But, obviously, Minister, old springs are still active, and you pay particular attention to the political family that you have left and betrayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u95	When you don't know what to say...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u96	I can't accept you accusing me of lying and uttering falsehoods. Julien Ravier recalled: we did not vote for all the articles in the text. If you want us to vote none, it's your choice. It may even be your will, but we will not yield to all your provocations, nor will we fall into your traps.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u97	All right, Mr. Ciotti!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u98	The attacks you have carried out are false. I recall the terms of my speech last night, which I dedicated to two brave women today threatened with death in the French Republic: Mila and Zineb El Rhazoui. I did not question you, minister. I have only found that in France, in the 21st century, a 17-year-old high school girl and a Charlie Hebdo journalist are at risk. If you dispute it, I would remind you of Mila's comments in her interview with the Point on January 20th. "I've lost my life for a year. She adds: "My life will never be the same again. I would remind you, because it is a fact, not a question to which you would be subject, that this young woman can no longer remain in her institution. The statement of the colonel principal of this military high school states: "His continued presence in the institution puts him at risk. It's a fact. The article recalls that the decision of the colonel principal was very badly received by Mila's father, who wrote to him: "Unlike you and so many others, Mila will never submit. It is not I who say it, but the father of this courageous young woman whom the Republic protects. I never claimed that the Republic was not protecting her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u99	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u100	I only said that she had to leave a public institution, because she is threatened – which is very serious. From what I said about Zineb El Rhazoui, you conclude that I am attacking the police. Have I ever done it? This journalist is fortunately protected, which is logical, and as you know, by the SDLP, the police protection department, which also monitored me until the very day that the current majority came to power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u101	Oh! Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u102	Yes, it hurts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So I pay tribute to these policemen. Don't mix it up! This is probably your way of doing things, but it has no place in our democracy or in our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u104	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u105	Article 1 of the Act sets out the principle that public or private law bodies responsible for the performance of a public service will henceforth be subject to the principles of equality, secularism and neutrality. The article seems to me necessary, indispensable, and we strongly support it. It will require the holders of public order contracts which are also aimed at the performance of a public service to ensure that these fundamental principles are respected for our Republic, because the public service activity requires the application of the principle of neutrality, in accordance with our constitutional framework, repeatedly recalled by the Constitutional Council. Thus, the principle of neutrality will apply strictly to public servants and their delegates. Of course, users are not subject to it. We also leave aside the third category, that of occasional public service employees, a non-homogeneous category, as recalled by the Council of State in 2013. I also welcome the fact that the special committee on the bill passed my amendment adding that the transport services to the freely organized or unconventionalized person, as they participate in a public service mission, must also respect the obligations and fundamental principles to which the holders of public order contracts are subject. Whatever their management, all public services will thus be affected by Article 1, which improves the neutrality and secularity regime applicable to them. In one opinion, the Council of State invited the legislator to clarify the nature of the measures to be taken by the bodies concerned in order to ensure that they fulfilled their obligations properly. This is the subject of an amendment which I am tabling with several colleagues in my group. In addition to respecting the fundamental principles of our Republic, and in particular the principle of neutrality which Article 1 seeks to impose on them, it is also their responsibility to sanction violations of these principles, and I believe that the article should be clarified to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u106	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u107	With Article 1, it is the very principles of the text, this important and long-awaited text, that we are addressing. Everyone is talking about neutrality and secularism, but now is the time to remember that these values must be revisited because they have been weakened in recent years. Our colleague spoke at the moment of their extension to private law bodies which will be responsible for respecting these principles of neutrality and secularism in the framework of public service delegations. As for me, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the elected representatives. You have the chance to have 300,000 local elected officials, including the state agents of the mayors: there is the National Assembly, there is the Senate, there is everything that is decided at national level, but there is, then, the local declination. The three public offices are on display, but in the field, the elected officials are on the front line. It is therefore important, I believe, to explain to them what the secularity and neutrality of public services represent, to train them, to raise their awareness to enable them, during their term of office, to be better armed – I use this word for purpose. This is an indispensable exercise because neutrality and secularism will only be alive if everyone, in their role and level of responsibility, is naturally involved in this fight – for it is nothing but a fight. I regret that the text does not mention the many elected representatives who are only waiting for their hand to be handed over to participate in its success in this endeavour. For reasons related to the free administration of local and regional authorities or to a financial burden – you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 40 falls like a cleaver as soon as parliamentarians have some ideas – it is a pity that we cannot go any further in the text. We had this discussion in a special committee, Minister, and I saw that you were sensitive to it; At one point or another, something will have to be done, because you cannot exclude 300,000 people from this fight while you need them on a daily basis. I hope that you will listen carefully and that we can move forward together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u108	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u109	As rapporteur for the Public Service Transformation Bill, I would like to have a word not to allow too much misrepresentation on this bill and to clarify what is meant by the term "public service mission" for all public servants, whether they are incumbent or contractual public servants. I regret that Mr.Nothing can hear my remarks: of course, when you are a public service contract, the rights and duties – and above all the duties – are the same as for a public servant. The implication that, by opening the public service to contract workers, we would breach the commitments and duties of those who serve the public action is unfounded, let us say so. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, of course, during the debates on the draft law on the transformation of the civil service, the amendments on secularism and the values of the Republic were riders, since we already had in mind the fact that the bill on the defence of the principles of the Republic, announced by the Government, would arrive in Parliament! It is today, through this text, that we are going to talk about these values. These subjects were legislative riders at the time. They are now the subject of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u110	I call Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u111	I would like to say to our colleague Eric Ciotti that we need to know how to deal with his remarks in a transparent and straightforward way. Last night, here at this rostrum, dear colleague, you said before the national representation, about young Mila: "the Republic... does not know how to protect her". These are the exact terms you used! At the moment, however, law enforcement forces are protecting young Mila and her family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u112	I was talking about the high school she was in!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u113	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On such important matters, honourable Member, I encourage you, throughout the debates that will be ours in the coming days, to speak the truth and nothing but the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u114	Mrs Sonia Krimi's deletion amendment No 2247 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u115	I have before me five amendments, Nos 1093, 2393, 16, 1612 and 1805, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1093 and 2393 are identical. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 1093.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u116	Article 1 of the Act provides for the jurisprudence of the Social Chamber of the Court of Cassation, according to which "the principles of neutrality and secularity of the public service shall apply to all public services, including those provided by bodies governed by private law". Very well: Article 1, Members of Parliament The Republicans are very willing to endorse it, and we even wish to try very modestly to improve the drafting of it. Indeed, it appears that it is necessary to supplement and clarify, by the amendment tabled by Mr Larrivé and I, the ins and outs of the article, whose current wording, which is less rigorous and more subject to interpretation, is paradoxically likely to be seen as likely to restrict the scope of the case-law. I am thinking in particular of the words: "the law and the regulation directly entrusts", etc. What happens when the public service mission is contracted, in the case of a delegation? Or when an organisation is recognized as carrying out a public service mission entrusted to it by the administration? In both cases, there may be a misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u117	I call Mr Chouat to support Amendment No. 2393.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u118	I re-tabled this amendment on the scope of Article 1e r because the arguments used to reject it in committee, however strong they may be, did not convince me. The aim is to consider the case where a public or private body participates in the public service by means of a link other than a public order contract; In doing so, it is necessary to incorporate into the law the jurisprudence of the Council of State. I was objected to that would lead to a new definition of public service. But how could we accept that, in the light of respect for neutrality and secularism, there are two public services: on the one hand, the one provided for a mission resulting from the law, and on the other, the one provided for a mission whose character of execution of the public service would be determined by the judge and on which draft law should remain silent? It was also argued that the amendment was unnecessary because what the case law had done could be repeated. Of course, except for the fact that the bill changes the law, as long as the legislator explicitly pronounces itself for an extension of the duty of neutrality. If the silence of the law favours a restrictive interpretation, then, ladies and gentlemen, let us be sure that those who do not adhere to the principles of the Republic will be able to make this interpretation. Not accepting this amendment would obviously be regrettable to me, but it would be a lost opportunity and a food for the litigation machine that will take years to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u119	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u120	As Mr. Chouat has just said, article 1 of the bill enshrines the jurisprudence of the Council of State. However, the wording of the article should be clarified. First, the contract should be added to the law and regulation in order to cover the entire scope of delegation of the public service. Secondly, the amendment will allow the requirements of neutrality and secularity to be extended in the event that the public service is deduced from the characteristics of the task entrusted to the body and from the relations with it of a public person.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u121	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 1612.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u122	I support the excellent amendment by my colleague Eric Ciotti, which aims to broaden the scope of Article 1e r in order not only to cover public services themselves or those involved in a public service mission through a contract or delegation, but also those which, apart from any contract, contribute to a public service mission – a frequent situation in everyday life. It is important that the scope of the article applies to all public service tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u123	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 1805.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u124	This amendment tabled on the initiative of Meyer Habib has the same objective as those just presented, although its wording is somewhat different. These amendments may seem redundant, but their aim is to extend the obligation to respect the principles of secularism and neutrality to private bodies which indirectly contribute to the exercise of a public service. The current text covers the scope of delegations and contracts by which the public authority may entrust a private body with the exercise of a public service task, but there are cases where the participation of the private body is outside the scope of the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u126	From the outset, these amendments raise the problem of the scope of Article 1, which, it is true, is not always easy to read. This is due to the concept we have in France of public service, a very difficult concept to define. It was necessary to determine the scope of application of the principles of neutrality and secularism to the public service from the outset of this article, since it was accepted by all that this field could not be restricted solely to persons governed by public law. The choice made in this bill of a double entry, by law or regulation, on the one hand, by the contract of the public order on the other hand, has, it is true, left outside the scope of the provisions of section 1 of the cases of performance of the public service by a private body. Your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, would have the merit of allowing Article 1 to cover all the contracts and the entire scope of public service set out in the case law. This solution had seduced me in a special committee and it is true that I had supported, at least in part, some of them. But there are obstacles to this drafting. On the one hand, it risks imposing the observance of the principles of neutrality and secularism on religious educational institutions and ESPICs – private health institutions of collective interest – which are legitimately exempt from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u128	On the other hand, the case law of the APREI judgment of the Council of State of 22 February 2007, to which you referred, relating to the cluster of indices, corresponds to a very specific case of complex species. In my view, your proposal would not provide any clarification as to the scope of the principle. Finally, by including contracts in the broad sense as part of the procedure for delegating the public service, you may extend the scope of Article 1e r beyond that laid down in the case law of the Court of Cassation. Since our discussions in the special committee, I have therefore been persuaded that it was pointless to extend the scope of application of the principles of equality, neutrality and secularism beyond what is provided for in the bill. Perhaps these provisions do not cover in a comprehensive manner all entities that may be subject to these principles; But they set out a general rule, which it will then be up to case law to apply to different concrete situations. You will point out to me that the special committee has planned to extend the provisions of Article 1 to the transport service to the person. Of course. Perhaps we will also expand the scheme to include HLM public limited companies, but I think it is wise to stick to that. I would add that private or public bodies outside the scope of Article 1e r are not exempt from the principles of secularism and neutrality, which apply to them because of their participation in the performance of the public service, in accordance with the case-law which will continue to apply. Forgive me for being a little long, it's that I'm trying to be pedagogic – I myself needed it for a while on these issues. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these five amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u130	If these amendments, several of which are defended by Members of the Group of the European People's Party, The Republicans, were adopted, respect for the principle of neutrality would be necessary for the Catholic schools under contract and for the hospitals of confessional inspiration, many in our territories. I'm not sure it's the wish of their signatories... I refer you to the impact assessment and to the lengthy discussions we had during the examination of Article 1 in a special committee. Under the current wording, the duty of neutrality for establishments performing a public service does not apply to ESPICs or establishments under contract of association. Of course, we include the jurisprudence of the Council of State in the law so as to prevent employees in these establishments from being subjected to a duty of total neutrality. I therefore agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and I invite you to reject these amendments. I understand Mr Chouat's demonstration, but I am not sure that this was the will of the LR Group. Your Amendment No 16 in particular, Mrs Genevard, is contradictory to your proposal to exempt certain establishments carrying out public service tasks from these obligations of neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u131	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u132	I hear your arguments, rapporteur. In your opening remarks, you indicated that the current wording could be interpreted in terms of the scope of the obligations and the type of contractual relationship with a private body involved in the exercise of a public service. You also recognize that you choose to allow case law to decide certain situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u134	For our part, we believe that it is up to the law to clarify its scope, rather than to allow case law to rule on situations that may be complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u135	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u136	I listened carefully to the rapporteur and the minister. This article clearly poses a drafting problem. You are trying – I understand that it is not easy and that you are in good faith – to target activities that should be subject to an obligation of neutrality, listing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u137	No, we don't list them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u138	But you are a lawyer, the rapporteur, and you can see the problem that this poses in law: as soon as we enumerate, we create a contrario. As the public service is multifaceted, some public services that we don't necessarily think about – the minister is right to talk about denominational schools – may be forgotten and escape the obligation of neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u139	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u140	Our amendments are aimed precisely at remedying this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u142	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u143	My dear colleague, no, Article 1e r does not list the activities concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u144	Yes, it is restrictive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u145	On the contrary, it lays down general principles. Moreover, Article 1 incorporates the jurisprudence of the Social Chamber of the Court of Cassation of 2013: any person, whether under public or private law, must apply the principle of neutrality, provided that he or she carries out a public service mission. With this article, we will enshrine in the law that this obligation applies when the public service is assigned by law, by regulation, but also by public order. Hence the difficulty raised by the Minister of the Interior: if we included the concept of a contract, we would extend the duty of neutrality to private institutions – in other words, the opposite of what Mrs Genevard wanted in the special committee. A great deal of caution must therefore be exercised on these issues. What we do not, on the other hand, include in Article 1 is the case law of the judgment of 22 February 2007 of the Council of State, which is intended to be a case in point and which attempts to reclassify a series of activities a posteriori into public service missions, on the basis of an examination of the conditions for their creation, their control by the administration, their functioning, but also of their value in the general interest. If the bill does not incorporate this approach, it is because we cannot define in the law the conditions for the creation and operation of the agencies concerned – or else we would have to enumerate, which cannot, by definition, be exhaustive, and would justify Mr. de la Verpillière's reproach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u146	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority group, to which I am related, let it be clear: it is not because the amendment I tabled is the same as that of an opposition member that it must be discredited – otherwise I will draw the consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u148	Ah, that's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u149	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u150	We've learned something today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u151	Is this about scary?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u152	It is not a question of frightening anyone, Mr Vallaud, but simply of being in conformity with my convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u153	Mr Vallaud, let us allow Mr Chouat to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u154	I am not going back to the substance, but these amendments have the merit of prolonging our debates in the House in the special committee. I maintain my reservations and disagreement, in particular because this article will give rise to enormous jurisprudence, which will take years to decide. Finally, use the right arguments: at no time has there been any question of putting private schools and ESPICs at risk. These establishments are in any case excluded from the scope of Article 1 ; They would remain so if my amendment were adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u155	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 363, 483 and 619. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 363.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u156	We have tabled the same amendments to the various sections of this bill, in order to clarify that the purpose of its provisions, as stated in its explanatory memorandum, is "to combat communal enterrism and separatist ideologies. If we do not specifically target the threat, we will not be effective and we will remain at measures of general scope with collateral damage to associations, citizens, cults or others, who will find themselves in the viewfinder when they have not asked for anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u158	The terms have been chosen in order not to target a particular religion, but rather movements dangerous to our democracy: the body responsible for the execution of a public service is obliged to ensure respect for the principles of equality, neutrality, etc., with the aim, in particular, of combating communal enterrism and separatist ideologies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u159	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 483.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u160	This amendment, the first signatory of which is Mr Hetzel, is identical to the previous one. The purpose of this bill is to target the measures in this bill, so that they are consistent with the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u161	Amendment No 619 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u162	It is a very Anglo-Saxon tendency to include its objectives in the law. However, it is not necessary: the law speaks for itself. The particular precision that you propose would be all the more useless since the fight against communal enterrism and separatist ideologies is not the only objective pursued. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u164	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u165	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u166	The problem is that your law is far too eloquent... You no longer subscribe to the initial objective of combating separatism, you try to impose a certain vision of the Republic on the whole society – to all associations in article 6, to all families in article 21, which concerns education, and to all religions in other articles. The law will thus affect everyone, including people, associations and cults who have not asked for anything and do not pose any problems. It will create obligations for them, according to a vision of the Republic where everything is imposed from top to bottom – while we should go from bottom to top, share and make live the republican ideal, without seeking to impose it. Your refusal to give these details reveals that this text has become far too broad in relation to its original objective, as already shown by the evolutions of its title – it was initially a question of fighting Islamism, then against separatism; The law finally concerns "respect for the principles of the Republic". Such a text will disrupt the lives of our fellow citizens in many areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u167	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u168	We are dealing with a series of amendments which, more or less caricatural or more or less extremist, ultimately seek to take the Government at word: in the spirit of its authors, relayed here by several members of the majority, this bill does not in reality concern the strengthening of republican principles but was conceived as an instrument to combat so-called Islamist separatism. From this reading comes the idea that one must go even further, call a cat a cat, as well as one may feel authorized by a text that leans and conveys a fantasy idea of the supposed danger of Islamist separatism, confusing it with terrorism – but we will come back to it. However, Article 1 is, for the moment, probably the only one that is justified: what makes it necessary to transpose into law what is already enshrined in the case law is less the very existence of specific manifestations of religious separatism – the impact study stresses in this respect that, even at RATP, often referred to as a company subject to I do not know what separatism, the phenomenon is marginal and its manifestations very scattered – than the break-up of the public service and its officials to which you have given yourself, and which results in an ever greater recourse to private companies or contractors. Therefore, the principle of neutrality, as enacted by the 1905 Act, must apply to all those who, de facto, assume public service tasks. This article does not say anything else and does not go beyond it, because aiming at a particular religious practice would be for the State to make distinctions. However, the State does not recognize any difference between religions, it ignores religions. The amendments you are proposing would aim to highlight particularities which would lead to a distinction between certain religions and others, which is the exact opposite of the 1905 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u169	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u170	Beyond his amendment, Mr Breton's intervention clearly reveals the differences – normal – that exist in political families, since he says about the opposite of what some of his colleagues, Mr de la Verpillière in particular, were said earlier. In the present case, it considers that, in its defence of secularism and neutrality, the draft law should, in particular with regard to associations, provide for ad hominem provisions and specifically target certain forms of religious deviance or separatism. That is precisely where we really have a difference of approach: of course, we are defending a bill that aims to fight separatism forcefully and in particular against Islamist separatism, but we repeat that it is not the only one. We do not make the law for today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, nor did the legislators of 1905 legislate with only the year 1906 or 1907. We intend to propose tools to combat all forms of questioning the principles of the Republic, but with respect for the rule of law and French secularism, which I repeat is defined by religious plurality, freedom of worship and neutrality of the State and its agents. This neutrality applies in both the religious and political fields – to which several amendments propose to add the philosophical field, when others wish to limit it to the religious sphere, or even to the sole issue of Islamism. We defend the idea that we must not change the Constitution of General de Gaulle, nor touch the 1946 preamble of the Resistance, nor amend the 1905 law; In other words, we do not want to change the main principles of the rule of law, as we know them, on the basis of a common struggle. In any event, Mr Breton's position, however respectable it may be, must not be taken for that of his group as a whole; I note, in particular, among the signatories, the name of Mr Le Fur, for whom I have the greatest respect and which I consider to be a great republican. But it turns out that he was one of those who had not passed the law prohibiting veiling at school...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u171	Distinctive signs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u172	He doubtless considered that there was little reason to prohibit the wearing of religious clothing or distinctive and ostensible signs at school, since, in his mind, beliefs and religion were also part of life in society. Perhaps we have a somewhat different conception; However, the lines of division in this debate are subtle, including within the LR Group. Mr Coquerel, I almost agree with you on many points; Nevertheless I would be less virulent than you, when you mention the breakdown of the public service. France is not yet running many communities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u173	We're running it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u174	...even if it probably happens one day. In the meantime, there are communist town halls that have public service delegations, and I think you will agree that their elected officials did not break the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u175	I confirm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u176	I even know communist communities – the one where I was born, for example – where casinos are found... (Smiles. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u177	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u178	It is therefore not necessary to caricature and oppose those who would like public service and those who would not like it. It's a management issue. I myself, when I became mayor, took over a lot of government services, which should please you. However, it is known that transportation is often a public service delegation, such as sometimes markets and often swimming pools. This has nothing to do with the breakage; It is simply that when you manage a city, you realize that reality is much more complex than ideology. Finally, it seems to me that by referring, after Mr Mélenchon, to an "assumed" Islamist danger, when it seemed to me that we agreed at least on the finding, you say one word too much. In any event, I believe that this Article 1 should be voted on by all the advocates of secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u179	I have before me three identical amendments, No 362, 482, 618. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 362.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u180	The minister and Mr Coquerel accuse us of referring to a single religion, but reread our amendment: there is only mention of communal enterrism and separatist ideologies – in the plural. Your arguments should therefore be more precise. As for Amendment No 362, he proposed, for consistency, to mention only the principle of neutrality, as is the case in Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u181	Amendment No 482 by Mr Patrick Hetzel is being defended. Amendment No 618 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u182	The principle of secularism is inextricably linked to the principle of neutrality and the principle of equality. We felt it necessary to mention this explicitly in order to strengthen the scope of the principle of religious neutrality in the face of the increasing number of attacks on it, particularly among public service delegates. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u183	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 985.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u184	The aim is to include among the principles of the Republic the principle of accessibility, without which there can be no freedom, equality or fraternity. This is an essential precision for the 12 million people with disabilities in our country, of whom 1.5 million suffer from visual impairment and 850,000 have reduced mobility. In public services such as transport or national education, accessibility is paramount. This principle should therefore be enshrined as such in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u186	I understand your intention, but if there is a constitutional link between the principles of equality, neutrality and secularism, I do not believe that it is justified to add the principle of accessibility, which has many dimensions, social, economic or territorial, which are not directly related to our text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u187	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support Amendment No. 2160.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u188	Article 1 provides that bodies operating public service missions are obliged to ensure the equality of users before the public service and to ensure respect for the principles of secularism and neutrality, taking the necessary measures to that end. I propose to go further and make it clear that these same bodies are obliged to ensure that they are respected and to identify, in order to put an end to them, all breaches of these principles. This clarification seems to me necessary in order to give more force to Article 1e r – which is what the Council of State has requested – and to ensure that, if these bodies fail to comply with their obligations, they are punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u190	I am often sensitive to your arguments, my dear colleague, but I do not understand your amendment: you propose to replace the words "for this purpose" with a much longer wording but which means exactly the same thing and does not add any useful clarification. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u191	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor to support Amendment No. 1072.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u192	This amendment extends the obligation of secularity and neutrality to service providers, subcontractors and other public service providers – I am thinking of SNCF, which, with the crisis of the covid, had to put in place much heavier cleaning procedures, for which it had to rely on providers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u194	This amendment is already satisfied by Article 1, paragraph 2, which provides that the body to which the performance of a public service mission has been entrusted shall ensure that any other person to whom it entrusts, in whole or in part, the performance of the public service ensures that these obligations are complied with. It also seems to me to be satisfied with the provisions of Article 1 II, especially since the rapporteur-general and I will present you with an amendment earlier to clarify relations with subcontractors. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u196	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u197	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u198	Indeed, this point is mentioned a little further in the text, but I wanted it to appear from this paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u199	Amendment No 1073 by Mrs Nathalie Porte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u200	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2566.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u201	It is intended to take up the wording provided for in Article 25 of Act No. 83-634 of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants, so that the scope of the obligation imposed on private employees with public service responsibilities is identical to that of civil servants. It's consistent and logical.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u203	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u204	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u205	Madam rapporteur, I understand your concern for consistency, but the word "in particular" in the 1983 Act refers to the duties, rights and duties of the official. It does not seem to me that all the obligations of civil servants are equally applicable to public service performers. The introduction of this "in particular" in this text could lead to a reading that would extend its scope beyond political and religious views. What interpretation could we make of it? Above all, what disputes could emerge from this "in particular", which further broadens the scope of political and religious opinions? Will we then talk about philosophical opinions, or the very expression of an opinion? That would be totally contrary to one of our fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u207	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 936.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u208	The amendment by Mr Marc Le Fur, co-signed by 20 Members, aims to clarify the agents involved in the execution of public services. It is a question of prohibiting them from expressing their political or religious views; The purpose of this ban is well understood, but there is a risk that freedom of opinion and belief will be violated. How far do you limit the expression? It is a question of being more precise, indicating that the prohibition would be limited to acts of political or religious proselytism. The expression "to manifest their political or religious opinions", of which one understands the spirit, may be too "neutralizing" and pose problems, including litigation. Hence this proposal for better drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u210	The principle of neutrality, which is part of the constitutional principles governing public service, is intended to express all opinions. It obviously carries a ban on agents from proselytizing. More generally, it prohibits the provision of public services in a differentiated manner based on the convictions of its staff or users. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u212	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u213	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u214	Madam rapporteur, you are not responding. Where do you see that the proposed wording aims at differentiated execution? You have to be exact. Will not the ban on any demonstration be excessive in relation to freedom of opinion? That's the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u215	Amendment No 160 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u216	I have before me six amendments, Nos 1117, 703, 161, 1448, 984 and 1357, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 161 and 1448 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 984 and 1357. Amendments Nos 1117 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 703 by Mr Robin Reda and 161 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho are being defended. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1448.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u217	The original text referred only to religious opinions; Political opinions have been added to the committee. In our view, this is problematic in that a jurisprudence of the Council of State of 1950 includes the question of political neutrality for an official during his working time, when he is in contact with users. The case law was reinforced by the 1983 Law on the Rights and Obligations of Civil Servants and amended by the Law of 20 April 2016 on the Ethics and Rights and Obligations of Civil Servants. It provides that they are bound by the obligation of neutrality, including religious neutrality, in the performance of their duties. These sections of the Act make good reference to the 1950 case law. Article 1 seeks to ensure that the principles of neutrality already under way apply to private law bodies responsible for the performance of the public service mission. Why do we need to reprosecrate something that is already in the law? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There is already a worrying drift in the extension of this case-law vis-à-vis officials when they assert political opinions outside the scope of their profession; Some teachers have recently had problems in this direction. We do not want the unnecessary precision contained in Article 1 to reinforce these drifts, which have been observed for some time. We therefore oppose this addition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u218	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendment No. 984.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u219	By proposing to insert the term "philosophical", our amendment, inspired by the community movement, aims to ensure that the neutrality of the public service is not limited to political or religious opinions alone, at the risk of stigmatizing them; That is why we propose to provide that neutrality also excludes philosophical opinions. These differ from the other two opinions mentioned in the text; In general, positive law does not assimilate them. For example, the recent decrees of 4 December 2020 allow the mention of political opinions, philosophical, religious convictions or the trade union membership of persons registered in security files; It must be deduced that these different opinions differ from each other. That is the meaning of this amendment and the reason why we are proposing this addition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u220	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 1357.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u221	In the spirit of Mr Charles de Courson, who tabled it, it was rather an irony amendment... Article 1 demonstrates the will to completely asepticate social life, including in enterprises; It will not bring them anything except the heaviness, at a time when one wants to relax their functioning. To put concepts of secularism in companies is a little bit the return of Big Brother...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u224	We have already had this debate, long enough, to know whether or not to add political opinions, as well as philosophical opinions. The principle of neutrality applies to all opinions, whether they are trade union, political, religious or even philosophical. We agreed to add the term "political"; I can understand that this may be a difficulty, but that is what comes out of our discussions. To the extent that the purpose of the bill is to combat a political-religious ideology, it can be understood: it may be legitimate to add the term "political" to emphasize the principles that we believe are essential. Unfavorable opinion on all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u225	Amendment No 1206 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u226	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor in support of Amendment No 851.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u227	Sensitive to the general discussions and in particular to the speeches of the Members occupying the benches of the left, who referred to the lack of inclusion of discrimination in this major text of the legislature, I intend to remedy this. I can count on the progress of the majority group and the Government to adopt my amendment. Article 1 recalls, by detailing them, the principles to be respected by the bodies responsible for the execution of a public service vis-à-vis the users. The equality, secularism and neutrality of the public service are thus enshrined in it. The amendment aims to add to this the principle of non-discrimination, which is regularly used by institutions, in particular by the Defender of Rights, who often recalls, in his work on topics related to public services – such as his June 2020 survey – the situations of discrimination that users testify to. This principle of non-discrimination aims not only at equality between citizens who use the public service, but above all at equality between them, regardless of their origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, etc. It deserves to be included in clause 1 of the bill – it was mentioned in the bill's draft. It seems useful to recall the concern about equal treatment of all users, without discrimination, by the bodies responsible for the execution of a public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u229	I often try, perhaps because of my legal background, to fight against what I don't think is absolutely essential in a piece of legislation. The principle of equality before public services, a principle of constitutional value, implies, inter alia, equal access and equal treatment for users of public services. The principle of equality therefore prevails without discrimination. We can say that we are not fighting discrimination sufficiently, but this is another debate. The texts exist; It is therefore not necessary, and it would even be redundant in my view to add this mention. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u231	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u232	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u233	It is well known that in many jurisdictions, unfortunately, some publics are discriminated against in relation to their skin colour, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation. Although civil servants should resolve to treat all our citizens as equal, the Defender of Rights and other bodies are nevertheless regularly seized and collate complaints.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u234	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u235	I fully understand the philosophy of our colleague's amendment: there are important discriminations against which we must fight. I also hear the rapporteur's argument that the equal rights of citizens with regard to public service already answer this question. That is why we will be defending amendments to ensure that secularism training is supplemented by anti-discrimination training, whether for teachers, national education officials or staff working in associations. Too often, in the public service as well as in the voluntary sector, we see the reproduction of discrimination existing in society, which poses real problems. We must put at the heart of our republican principles the fight against discrimination, which is a real subject and must be treated as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u236	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u237	I am surprised to hear that public services would discriminate as much in France. What a picture you have! Civil servants and public servants shall exercise their profession as best they can. The principle of equality has long existed and we must continue to make it live, with its ups and downs, that is normal. But hearing about the public service is shocking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u238	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u239	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] No doubt the situation has never arisen for Mr Breton, who is a heterosexual, white, Catholic man and who finally meets all the criteria that underpins our Judeo-Christian society. I understand it's something he can't hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u240	You're letting this pass, Mr. President? It's a personal fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u241	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I feel that you're upset, but it almost makes me happy. I know, for having worked as a public servant, that the reception of certain populations in the public services is not always up to what could be expected of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u242	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u243	There has been no notable personal attack, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps there are elements of which Mrs. Vanceunebrock is aware, and I am not, about Mr. Breton's personal life...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u244	What would we have heard if we had said such things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u245	It's not because he's white that he can't understand things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u246	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u247	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the LR group]] The best way not to discriminate is not to categorize anyone. This must be ensured in an equal manner among all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u248	There's a lot of work to do, obviously!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u249	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To say things very legally – we are still here to do the law – it is provided in the text that, on the one hand, the bodies concerned, whether they are entrusted with a public service task by law, regulation or contract, will have to ensure that users are equal before the public service and, on the other hand, they will have to treat all people equally. We could indeed decline all sub-categories: non-discrimination due to sexual orientation, non-discrimination between men and women, etc. But what matters is the totality of the principle of equality. That is the nobility of general principles! And these are the principles of the Republic that we want to defend with you. It will therefore be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u250	There are principles that have not yet been applied for three and a half years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u251	Mr Xavier Breton, you wish to react; You were not questioned, but arrested. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u252	I just wanted to point out to our colleague Laurence Vanceunebrock that she forgot to say that I am married and that I had children with my wife... Don't let us venture into this field. We are not here because of this or that quality, but as legislators; At no time should we refer to our personal lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and some benches of the IDU-I group]] And if the debate starts on these issues, it may go wrong. Let us pay attention to what we say, exchange argument for argument and avoid personal attacks, or rather personal considerations – I would not take it as an attack – that have nothing to do with the debate. I am not taking care of your privacy, my dear colleague; Thank you for doing the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u255	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1358, 2337 and 2248, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs De Temmerman to support Amendment No. 1358.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u256	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify explicitly in the Act that casual collaborators are not covered by this Article. We are thinking in particular of the accompanying persons during the school outings. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and several other benches]] I was a teacher and, personally, I would have preferred to benefit, for example, from the presence of a veiled woman accompanying her children rather than having no one. Indeed, when a veiled woman participates in a school outing, it means that she has no problem with the school of the Republic and is interested in the education of her children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u257	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u258	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to support Amendment No. 2337.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u259	This amendment, of the same line, aims to exclude occasional employees of the public service from the principle of neutrality. The aim is to put an end to all the hesitations that one may have about the concept of physical collaborator and also to the administrative jurisprudence which does not give a precise definition in this matter: either he is a user, or he is an administrative agent. The occasional collaborator is not an official and the principle of neutrality, which applies only to State agents, the State house, must not be applied to him. I have also seen, for these veiled women, this ad hoc collaboration may be the only opportunity to participate in life in society and to be in contact with the Republic. Asking them to remove their veils on the pretext that they would not respect the Republic would lead them to put aside, to discriminate against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u260	Would it be so bad to take it off once?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u261	This could even have a very negative impact on their children, who could have a very violent resentment of the Republic. That is why I would like occasional collaborators to be excluded, in a firm and precise way, knowing that the case law is not clear on the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u262	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u263	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor to support Amendment No. 2248.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u264	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] He's forbidden. I would simply add that I prefer a thousand times a veiled woman who works for a veiled woman who stays at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u265	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u266	If she's not going to work because of the veil, it's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I understood just now that you wanted your group's position to be respected; You can understand that the same requirement is expected when it comes to an amendment that is not entirely in your favour. What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u268	I would like to recall the position developed by the Council of State in a study of 19 December 2013 carried out at the request of the Defender of Rights, on which we will probably come back in more detail after Article 1. In his position, which he wanted descriptive and non-normative – there is a difference – he held that between the public official and the user, the law and the jurisprudence had not identified a third category of collaborators or participants in the public service that would be subject, as such, to the requirement of religious neutrality. But you are not merely transposing this study into the law: while the Council of State did not identify a category of occasional collaborators or participants, your amendments do identify one, and then make it clear that it must be excluded from the obligation to respect the principle of neutrality. I would add that the Conseil d'Etat had made it clear that, with regard to those collaborators assimilated to users, restrictions on the freedom to manifest religious opinions could arise either from specific texts or from considerations relating to public order or the proper functioning of the service. The amendments tabled do not even provide for such restrictions. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u270	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u271	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u272	I understand these amendments. I also note, although I do not like to make such remarks, that it was women's colleagues who defended them; It's not that surprising.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u273	There's an amendment from Charles de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u274	Yes, but he was defended by our colleague Jennifer De Temmerman. [[Marie-George Buffet and Bénédicte Pételle applaud]] I also agree with the rapporteur's argument. Even if we are inspired by the best will of the world, we must be careful not to create a fragility. I believe, of course, in the best will expressed by your amendments; But creating a third category, between the agent and the public service user, opens a debate that could, tomorrow, turn against this new category. That is why I fully understand your amendments, which are based on a clear willingness to open up and which I agree with, but I will vote against them for the reasons set out by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u275	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u276	I agree with Stéphane Peu's arguments. I certainly share the concern of the Members who are defending these amendments, and I think that, at a later stage, we will reject amendments which demand exactly the opposite. But I would point out that occasional employees are not a category subject to statutory obligations, not being responsible for carrying out public service tasks. The rapporteur referred to the study by the Council of State of 19 December 2013, which stated that there was no relevant legal category between the agent and the public service user. To provide for such persons to be excluded from the law by exception would tend to suggest that they would be likely to perform a public service role, i.e. to obstruct a door into which those who intend to apply the principle of neutrality would be engulfed. That is why I will not vote for these amendments, while sharing their concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u277	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u278	I understand the rapporteur's argument, as do the comments made by my colleagues. My amendment was intended to address a concern, precisely because the case law is not entirely clear on the subject: once you use it, once you are an auxiliary agent, there is reason to wonder. But where you are right, dear colleague Little is that if we want to clarify things, we risk limiting them and, at some point, blocking them, which could be dangerous in the situations we all encounter in our constituencies. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You reassured me: I know that you will be vigilant when you are offered to exclude all those who wish to manifest their religion. That is why I will withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u279	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u280	I will say little else: it is worth recalling that users of a public service, who are accompanying mothers, are not subject to the principle of neutrality. It is a functional category of casual collaborators, invented at the end of the 19th century by the jurisprudence on risk theory, quite simply. Above all, we must not create a new category of law, which could weaken them by alternating: the republican order placed in the wrong hands leads to disorder. We shall now consider the amendments tabled, in order, on the contrary, to prohibit the participation of accompanying mothers when they are veiled. It is important to stress that there is no lesson of Republic or fraternity in the proposals that will come from the benches opposite. I fully understand the intention, I share it, but remain faithful to what secularism is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u281	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u282	These amendments have the merit of pointing out a fragility of the text, which appears repeatedly: we have met it previously in the concept of contract, we find it again for the occasional agents of the public service. As Stéphane Peu, Éric Coquerel and Boris Vallaud have explained, taking the risk of creating the sub-category of casual public service agents is taking the risk of excluding a number of people tomorrow. I hear your arguments, Madam rapporteur, but the Council of State has taken good care not to enter into a normative qualification. Anyway, the problem remains ahead of us. Perhaps the drafting of the amendments is not timely because it creates a sub-category; No doubt an additional legistic writing work will be required during the shuttles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u283	I call Mrs De Temmerman to support Amendment No. 1356.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u284	The penalties incurred by employees who do not respect the obligation of neutrality and who express their political or religious views are not detailed in Article 1. Our amendment aims to explicitly include in the law a sanction scheme applicable to employees of public service bodies who would express their political and religious opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u286	Article 1e r is not intended to provide for sanctions, but to include in the law a principle affirmed by the Council of State and the Court of Cassation: the fact that the public service is entrusted to a private person does not change the nature of the obligations inherent in the performance of the public service. Once again – repetition has pedagogical virtues... – the purpose of this article is also to strengthen the means made available to the administrative authority to monitor the obligations arising therefrom. There is no question of providing for sanctions, the definition of which is referred to in article 1, paragraph 4, of a decree in the Council of State. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u287	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1364.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u288	I have heard your arguments, Madam rapporteur, but is this text merely posting, or is it intended to be operational? Penalties must be included in the law: this is the subject of my amendment. Our role, as legislator, is to define the modalities of sanction; We cannot always entrust our work to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u289	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 935 and 2610. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 935.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u290	Filed by Marc Le Fur, it is intended to clarify that the provisions of Article 1e r must not impede the respect of the principle of independence of teachers-researchers in the performance of their teaching duties. It should be recalled that this independence was enshrined as a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic in a decision of the Constitutional Council of 1984. This clarification is important to reassure teachers-researchers of their independence in the performance of their duties and duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u291	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 2610.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u292	This amendment by Patrick Hetzel has the same purpose: the principle of independence of teachers-researchers in the exercise of their teaching duties and research activities is affirmed in article L. 952-2 of the Education Code and enshrined as a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic and by the Constitutional Judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u293	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u294	Mr Hetzel, I do not see how the principle of neutrality and the principle of the independence of teachers-researchers would conflict.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u295	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u296	The fact that freedom of education has been recognized as a fundamental principle by the laws of the Republic requires respect for the principle of the independence of teachers-researchers, without the need for an exception to article 1. I can therefore only give an unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u298	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u299	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u300	It is a pity that you are giving a negative opinion, for a very simple reason: if we are defending these amendments, it is because on several occasions, especially when we have debated the research programming bill, we have found that the question arises. Unfortunately, the Government was once again insensitive to the arguments of the teachers-researchers. Guarantees must be given to them; You refuse to do so, and that's a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u301	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u302	I support these amendments. The precision they are intended to provide could be an obstacle to certain requests for fact-finding missions, such as that of MM. Abad and Aubert on ideological intellectual drifts in academia. If these amendments are an opportunity for the Republicans to show their commitment to the independence of academic research, I will support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u304	Amendments Nos 162 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and 333 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u305	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1109.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u306	Ceding on the wearing of the veil in public space is actually yielding on everything. The Islamic veil is not only a piece of fabric, it is the expression of a political project: it reflects the desire to change our French way of life. It is also a sign of women's submission to men. This veil is the expression of the fragmentation of our society. It is therefore necessary to combat the wearing of the Islamic veil in the public domain, especially when it comes to accompanying children in school or out-of-school settings – especially when mothers accompany school outings. That is the subject of my amendment. No, the Islamic veil is not the norm. (Exclaims by Ms. Sonia Krimi.) All over the world, women are bullied – and sometimes locked up – because they are fighting for other women to have the right not to wear the veil. I would like to pay tribute to Iranian lawyer Nasrin Stoudeh, who was sentenced in 2019 to another ten years in prison and 148 lashes for "inciting debauchery", simply for presenting himself in public without his veil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u307	We're not in Iran!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u309	Your summary statement clearly expresses what your amendment does not specifically state: it is the school attendants who are targeted. It is never desirable that legislation should not be directly understandable. Article 1 is intended to impose respect for the principles of equality, neutrality and secularism on public service delegates, and not on persons directly involved in school and extracurricular activities. Therefore, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u311	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u312	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u313	Earlier on another amendment, we have shown that there is a need to distinguish between public service employees and users: the duty of neutrality and secularism of the former does not apply in the same way to the latter. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] Dear colleague, why are you talking about the veil? Why don't you mention all the religious signs that users might wear? Why are you targeting these women? Why don't you talk about the others? It must be said: you are aiming at a religion, Madame Ménard, you are not aiming at secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u314	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u315	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u316	If I aim at the Islamic veil, it is simply because it is a sign of submission and a political sign. I don't think wearing a cross around my neck is a sign of submission to man – or I didn't understand the Catholic religion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u318	I don't think wearing a kippa is a sign of submission to the woman or man. That's the difference! Before you, Mrs Buffet, who are feminists, I would like once again to pay tribute to all the women who are fighting around the world for the right not to wear the veil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u319	They may also have the right to wear it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u320	Unlike you, I believe that the mothers who accompany school outings are not public service employees. As long as they accompany a school leaving, they have a role of accompanying public service volunteers and must respect certain principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u321	That's already the case, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u322	You bet on hate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u323	I should like to inform the House that there is less than a minute left for Members who are not registered until the end of the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u324	It's really sadism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u325	Amendment No 2249 by Mrs Sonia Krimi is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u326	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1367 and 2332. Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u327	It is intended to delete paragraph 3 introduced in a special commission, the wording of which seems to us to be unclear, too broad and capable of including actors who do not participate in the performance of a public service mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u328	Amendment No 2332 by Mr Mustapha Laabid is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u329	My opinion is against these amendments, which aim to delete paragraph 3 on transport services to persons. Contrary to you, Mrs De Temmerman, I find that the mention added by the special committee makes it clear that these services, as long as they participate in the performance of a public service mission, must ensure that their employees respect the principles of equality and neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u330	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 704.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u331	This amendment proposed by our colleague Robin Reda aims to include public and private social providers in Article 1, like public or private transport companies, and to subject them to the same principles of neutrality and secularism as the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u333	I thank you for presenting this amendment, to which the committee is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u334	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u335	The Government is also in favour of this amendment. It is a matter of continuing the debate we have had in the special committee. HLM offices certainly perform a public service mission and are present in territories where there may be difficulties. I know they're making very important efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u337	For being elected, like some of you here, I know that the leaders are putting this principle of neutrality in place and applying it. I also know that while there are several types of organizations – public, para-public and private – all have a public service mission: building and managing social housing. Perhaps this amendment will be under-amended with the majority and the Senate opposition after consultation with the donors, so that neutrality is strictly enforced and in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u338	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u339	HLM organisations are already subject to an obligation of neutrality as long as they have a public service mission. They have done an important job: I refer you to the guide to their members, which clearly explains things from this point of view and makes a number of recommendations. Let us not suggest that the HLM organizations would not have dealt with this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u340	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u341	I have no objection to this amendment, but it is largely satisfied, and indeed useless. If a 1987 Council of State opinion distinguished between public offices that had a public service mission and public limited companies or cooperatives that had not, all this has been largely corrected since then: another opinion of the Council of State of July 1992 assimilated all HLM bodies, regardless of their status – private, public, or cooperative – to public service missions. This was reaffirmed by the Constitutional Council in its opinion on the 2009 Act to Mobilize Housing and Combat Exclusion. The case law has even gone so far as to distinguish between the duty of neutrality of the custodians of HLM parks depending on whether they are working in the buildings or in their office accommodation, which has been considered a private space. In other words, all cases are covered. The amendment would therefore not add anything to what exists today, but if you insist on making that clarification in the law, we will not oppose it. It is important to know that HLM organisations do not necessarily live very well this amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u342	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u343	... to the extent that they have made a great deal of effort and that the case law is very clear. In fact, there were no significant problems of this type among HLM staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u344	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u345	We will of course support the position of the committee and the Government on this amendment, but I would like to make some clarifications, which are quite in line with what has just been said. A considerable effort has indeed been made by the HLM world on the question of secularism: it has indeed published, last September I believe, a remarkable guide. It therefore seems to me that the matter is largely satisfied. I will give this amendment a chance to succeed because it is necessary to check whether there is a small hole in the snowshoe. This is probably what the work in the Senate will do. All this is consistent with the amendment proposed by Mr Rossi.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u346	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u347	I thank everyone for giving this amendment their chance. Mr. Little, I do not entirely agree with you. This amendment is not unnecessary because the impact assessment excluded private companies. Public offices must, of course, apply the duty of neutrality. As you know, there are several types of offices and companies operating on behalf of the HLM, which is not always very clear in the minds of the citizens. I think Mr Reda's amendment is timely. He will be under-amended in the Senate, as I said earlier, in a concertation to which the working Republic group had invited us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u348	Amendment No 2524 by Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u349	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 776, 779, 787 and 807 which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u350	As you do not want to delete paragraph 3, we propose that these four amendments clarify which transport is involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u351	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u352	These amendments, which are successively aimed at rail, air, sea and road transport, seem inappropriate to me because they do not specify that these obligations apply only if they are involved in the performance of the public service. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u353	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u354	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u355	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u356	I am not in favour of these amendments. However, paragraph 3, which deals with transport services to persons freely organized or unconventional, does raise some problems. Are taxis carrying children with disabilities or elderly persons in certain municipalities treated as public service missions? Paragraph 3 introduced in committee is perhaps a little too broad: it could apply to passenger vehicles with driver – VTC – to Uber drivers, paramedics or taxis. It would therefore be useful to remove any ambiguity in that regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u357	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 1220.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u358	This is an amendment that I will almost call editorial. Paragraph 4 of Article 1 states: "The regulations applicable to such bodies shall specify, where applicable, the procedures for monitoring and sanctioning the obligations referred to in this I. It seems awkward to keep the words "if any." If there are obligations, these must be provided for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u359	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u361	As much as possible can be done to remove from our laws those sweetening formulas which remove from the texts the essence of their normative character. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u363	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u364	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u365	With this amendment, I come back to a subject that we have already addressed: the extension of the principle of neutrality and secularism to those who are involved in the development of a public service. When one is co-actor in the development of a public service, whether as an employee or as a volunteer, occasional or not, and when one is invited to participate in the development of a public service, the principle of neutrality must apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u366	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u368	This amendment is the only one in the list of amendments to Article 1 to raise the question of the scope of application of the principle of neutrality from the subject natural persons and not, as the draft law does, from the entities, bodies governed by public law or private law, which hold the contract for public procurement, which participate in the performance of the public service. In this sense, it is a debate. Unfortunately, its wording prevents me from taking it into consideration. Of course, the diplomatic authorities of foreign powers have nothing to do with the principles governing our public service; and it is not the mission of the public service which is or is not voluntary, but participation in this mission of the person concerned. For all these reasons, which are not essentially the substance of what we will be discussing at a later stage, the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u369	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u370	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u371	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1892 and 1893, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u372	Amendment No 1892 is a precise amendment which is in line with Article 1. It follows the recommendations of the Council of State to improve the accuracy of the scope of public procurement contracts. It proposes that, in order to avoid any question of constitutionality on the contractual freedom of economic operators, purchasers and licensors' authorities, it should be strictly assigned to the performance of the public service under private law for those whose object it is itself, and therefore, by ricochet, to exclude those for whom public contracts for the supply of services are used only for the performance of public service tasks but do not have as their object even the task of public service. Amendment No 1893 is a fallback amendment. He proposed, for the sake of precision, that the wording used in article 1, paragraph 1, should be used, in this case the word "trust", which clarified the situation and, it seems to me, went in the direction of the objective which the Minister had reminded us since the beginning of the discussion of this text. I would like to thank the Faculty of Law of Montpellier, in particular the students of the Magisterium of Public Law, who participated in the writing of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u373	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u374	I understand your concern to clarify, but as we have already said, Rule 1 lays down a general principle which, contrary to what one speaker has said, is clear. It is up to the legislator to set the principle, and then the case law to define it. One can never list exhaustively; The more a list is drawn up, the more generally the scope of an article is limited. With Amendment No 1892, you want to exclude public procurement – Article L. 2 of the Public Order Code for public procurement – and concessions. I do not see why public procurement would be excluded a priori. It is up to the case-law to assess which constitute the performance of a public service mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u375	If you refer to supply contracts that do not put employees directly in the presence of users, it is obviously the criteria that have long been defined by the case law that apply. I do not see why public procurement would be excluded a priori, unless one wants to restrict from the outset the scope of an article, the object of which, I repeat, is to enshrine the principle of neutrality applied to delegates of public service missions. It therefore seems to me preferable to retain the wording of Article 1. Unfavorable opinion. With regard to Amendment No 1893, I would point out that the object of the contract is the performance of the public service – it is not a matter of "trusting" the performance of the public service to a contracting party. For this reason, it will also be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u376	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u377	I would like to say to Mrs Dubost and to those who helped her to draft these amendments that it does not seem advisable to introduce the provisions that you are proposing in the bill because, in addition to the reasons put forward by the rapporteur, it would weaken the mechanism that we want to put in place. I would like to take this opportunity to say to Mrs Sonia Krimi, who spoke in the general discussion and on Article 1, that, of course, it is not a question of extending the principles of neutrality to all companies working with the public service, but only to those which contribute to the public service. Ms. Krimi cited the case of housekeepers on trains; I will mention those who, at seven o'clock, six o'clock, or even five o'clock in the morning, wash the stairs or the entrance to a town hall. They have a very difficult and useful job, but they do not directly contribute to a public service mission as such. This legislation will not apply to companies, selected after a call for tenders, which employ them, even if this service could have been provided directly by municipal employees. It will, however, apply to everything that directly contributes to the public service. Thus, in the case of a public service delegation, if, for example, a town hall "privatizes", in the left-hand sense of the term, its reception, the reception agents should be attentive to neutrality. There is therefore a distinction to be made and, as the rapporteur pointed out, it is up to the administrative judge to distinguish between what is a public service mission and what is not, which is rather complicated. As you know, there has been a long debate, particularly in the Council of State, on the elements that define the public service mission. Is it the composition of a board of directors depending on whether the state or local authorities are more or less represented? Is this a question of financing or prerogatives of public authority? This leads to a "beam of clues". That is why I think it is necessary to stick to the general principle mentioned by the rapporteur. I give an opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u378	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u379	I thank you, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, for your explanations, but there is still a question mark because a public procurement is not a public service delegation. It seems to me complicated to lay down a general principle of neutrality for public service delegations in all public procurement. A distinction must be made, and if the legislator does not wish to clarify the matter, the case law will indeed have to do so. I simply find it a pity that it is not this House that is in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u380	Amendment No 705 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u381	Amendment No 164 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u382	Identical amendments Nos 165 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and 1450 by Mr Éric Coquerel are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u383	Amendment No 1207 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u384	Amendment No 163 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u385	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1368.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u386	Once again, it is necessary to clarify the penalties applicable in the event of non-compliance with the obligations referred to in this article. We will make further amendments in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u387	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 364, 484 and 621. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 364.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u388	In accordance with what the Council of State pointed out in its opinion on the draft law, it is a matter of expressly stating that the provisions of paragraph 5 "are not intended and cannot have the effect of excluding a candidate for such a contract on the sole ground that it would be an organization, an association or a legal person in another category claiming a current of thought or confessional inspiration". It is important to clarify this in order to avoid any ambiguity in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u389	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 484.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u390	This amendment is intended to supplement paragraph 5, which clearly states that political or religious opinions should not be expressed, with the risk of excluding all associations, which would be problematic. That is why we insist that the text be amended accordingly. If this is not the case, the Government should explain to us why it wishes to maintain this wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u391	[[Smile]] The floor is open to Mr Pierre Cordier, provided he wishes to interrupt his conversation for a few moments in support of Amendment No 621.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u392	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u393	What is the Committee's opinion on the three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u394	Unfavorable opinion. The wording of article 1 is sufficiently explicit that it is not necessary to add that its provisions are not intended and cannot have the effect of excluding a candidate for such contracts on the sole ground that it would be an organization, association or other, claiming a current of thought or confessional inspiration. It is obviously not our intention, but it is not my assertion that matters, it is the drafting of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u395	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u396	As I understand it, your amendments are intended to allow faith-based associations to respond to a number of public tenders. To begin with, "denominational inspiration", we do not know very well what it means in law: this category has no legal existence. This is a first reason not to adopt these amendments. Secondly, it would mean that these associations would be obliged to apply the principle of neutrality no matter what. An association of denominational inspiration may apply for a tender for the performance of a public service mission, but the agents who will carry out it, either as employees or as volunteers, will have to respect the principle of neutrality, we agree. It also means you accept that Islamist associations can apply for public service contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u397	No! These can be excluded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u398	No, because I would like to understand your position: a few days ago you explained to us that it was absolutely necessary to exclude these associations and that we were fighting the fight a little too softly, and now you are telling us that an association inspired by the Muslim Brotherhood must be able to bid for a public service mission. It is clear that these amendments do not work legally and, above all, they largely contradict the position that you defended in the general discussion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u399	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u400	Minister, let's be clear, we share some of the elements of the fight that you are leading, but the problem is that Protestant-inspired associations, for example, that have been working for a long time in areas such as school inclusion or disability support, will no longer be able to respond to a number of public orders, and that is where the problem arises, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u401	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u402	The way you argue shows that you are going to exclude from the scheme associations that today do not pose any problems. What we are fighting in your vision is that it creates problems where there are none.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u403	You're the one who's making it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u404	Treat the problems, and avoid bothering those who don't cause any problems!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u405	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u406	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u407	No, we don't create any additional problems! Let us take the example of these great humanitarian associations which, while claiming their status as religious, carry out public service missions – such as CIMADE, which helps to welcome refugees in the name of the Gospel. Of course, they will always be able to respond to public tenders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u408	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u409	What we are asking them, as is already the case today, is to respect the principle of neutrality in the daily exercise of their mission: on this point there is no change. This does not prevent CIMADE from remaining a structure of denominational origin. So there's no problem, MP, none.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u410	There's no problem! It's a quiproquo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u411	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2540.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u412	The purpose of this amendment is to extend the obligation to communicate subcontracts to concessions and to distinguish between subcontracts concluded for the performance of the public service and those which actually involve the subcontractor in the public service. The Special Committee had adopted an amendment by the Dem Group providing for the communication of the various subcontracts to the contract holder, but I believe that by its impreciseness this amendment left a number of situations outside its scope. The scope of the subcontracting regime is limited to contracts for works, services or supplies involving services or installation or installation work. However, article 1 of the draft law deals with both concessions, in which the concept of subcontracting is absent, and contracts without distinction. Therefore, the obligation to disclose subcontracts should be extended to concessions. Furthermore, subcontracts concluded for the performance of the public service should be distinguished from those which actually involve the subcontractor in the public service. In fact, a contract may have been concluded by the main undertaking with the aim of fulfilling the public service task entrusted to it, without providing that the contract directly involves the subcontractor in the performance of that public service. This clarification also responds to the concerns expressed earlier by my colleague Coralie Dubost in defence of his amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u413	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1710.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u414	It is intended to apply the provisions contained in the article to public service tasks when they are carried out under a contract governed by private law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u415	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u416	Unfavorable. I have already had the opportunity on several occasions to respond to amendments in this direction. We must be careful not to widen the scope of Article 1 too much, especially since the principles of equality, neutrality and secularism will continue to apply to persons entrusted with a public service mission and recognized as such by case law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u417	On Article 1, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 166 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u418	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 1611.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u419	Paragraph 9 provides that the compliance obligation does not apply to contracts whose term occurs within 36 months of the date of publication of the law. This amendment, of which Mr Eric Ciotti is the first signatory, aims to make it immediately applicable for all contracts, given the importance of the duty of neutrality of employees involved in a public service mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u421	Unfavorable. The compliance obligation should not apply to contracts whose term will take place within 36 months of the publication of the law, as new obligations on existing contracts must remain proportionate to the objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u422	Mr Charles de Courson's amendment No. 1384 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u423	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1012.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u424	This amendment, already defended in committee, aims to limit the scope of Article 1e r imposing neutrality on persons carrying out a public service mission, in order to explicitly exclude private educational and health institutions, often of denominational inspiration. I am prepared to withdraw it as it was made clear to us in the special committee that the establishments in question were well excluded from the scope of the article. I note, however, that a distinction is made between the performance of public service and public service tasks, as in the case of Mr Reda's amendment on social housing, which we support. Do you confirm that this amendment is satisfied?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u426	Indeed, we had this discussion in a special committee. It is not necessary to explicitly exclude private educational institutions under contract and out of contract from the scope of Article 1e r because this exclusion is de facto the result of the fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic, which enshrines freedom of education, and of Article L. 442-1 of the Education Code, which provides that "education under contract is subject to State control. The institution, while maintaining its own character, must give this teaching with full respect for freedom of conscience. All children, regardless of origin, opinion or belief, have access to it. » Finally, the very wording of article 1 of the draft law excludes cases in which the delegation of public service is entrusted by a contract with the exception of those which fall within the scope of the public order...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u427	Dear colleagues in the LR Group, Mr Ravier has asked for clarification as to whether or not he withdraws his amendment, whether or not some of you support it; It would be urban for him to listen to the answer given by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u428	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u429	In this case, my answer is almost complete – unless I reread the text of Article 1: again, it excludes cases where the delegation is entrusted by contract, except in the case of a public order. So rest assured. Consequently, the Committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u430	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u431	Reassuringly, Mr.Ravier: Contract schools and ESPICs, private health institutions of collective interest, are not covered by Article 1, as we have stated in committee. As Members are preparing to vote on Article 1, I would like to say to them how important it is to impose the neutrality of public service on public service delegates, that is to say, on hundreds of thousands of people who, in public transport, in swimming pools, in public service delegations, in the markets in our towns and villages, work on behalf of the public service while at the same time being employees of a company. I insist: this very strong provision aims to extend, in relation to case law and sometimes beyond, the principle of neutrality to delegated public services. This is a new duty for all concerned in each local authority, on the understanding that schools under contract and ESPICs are naturally not subject to it, as indicated in the impact assessment sent to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u432	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u433	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 188 Number of votes cast 175 Absolute majority 88 For adoption 174 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u434	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u435	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u436	We come to amendments on the additional article after Article 1. Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1165.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u437	The school is the privileged place for the assimilation of the principles of the Republic. We have seen in committee that while the question of the application of religious neutrality to persons occasionally involved in the public service of education was legitimate, it was not desirable to extend this obligation to all occasional collaborators in the public service, or even to create a new legal category. The amendment is therefore intended to make outside school workers travelling or receiving a class, as well as school attendants, subject to the duty of neutrality applicable to public officials, for the duration during which they will assist in the performance of the public education service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u438	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u439	The purpose of the amendment is to subject to the principle of neutrality any person entering a school place, as well as occasional employees of the public service. Let me refer to our conception of secularism! The amendment is intended, on the one hand, for a space – the school place – which is why we cannot follow your proposal, and, on the other hand, for occasional collaborators. However, this is a subject that we will deal with more generally in other forthcoming amendments. Personally, I am not in favour of a categorical approach. The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u440	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 351.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u441	I had tabled a similar amendment in committee, where I was told that its drafting could be directed at restaurants in denominational schools. I have therefore amended it, and I think you will now be able to deliver favourable opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u442	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u443	On this subject, Mrs Ménard, it seems to me better to stick to the decision of the Council of State of 11 December 2020, which shows that "the principles of secularism and neutrality of the public service do not, by themselves, prevent users of the optional public service of school catering from being offered a choice allowing them to enjoy a balanced menu without having to consume foods proscribed by their religious convictions". So that's an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u444	I have before me six amendments, Nos 1645, 1613, 20, 203, 878 and 1152, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1645.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u445	I will be very fast, because there is only a few seconds left for the non-attached Members to speak – this is how democratic life is going in the Chamber. The amendment seeks to impose religious neutrality in public higher education institutions. Indeed, it is clear that while we are in favour of banning the wearing of Islamic veils in public space, we are even more so when it comes to our universities. This terrible political standard, this symbol of submission, has no place in these places of knowledge and emancipation, which are our universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u446	Thank you, Mr. Meizonnet. Before you spoke, there were thirty-seven seconds left for non-attached Members to speak on the entire text: you used thirty-six, so your colleagues will now have only one second to speak on the fifty-two sections of the bill that we still need to consider.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u447	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u448	That's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u449	I should like to inform you that, on Amendments Nos 1613 and 20, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 1613.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u450	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and Mr Nicolas Meizonnet also applaud]] Before I defend it, let me be surprised by a system that means that parliamentarians in this House now have only one second to speak on the rest of the bill. It seems to me that this is what some would have described as a "democratic anomaly",...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u451	She's not from yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u452	... an anomaly that found itself reinforced by the choices of some. I would like to defend my amendment, which tends to prohibit the wearing of religious signs in classrooms, and more generally places and situations of teaching and research in public higher education institutions. By focusing on clothes that embody a form of proselytism, my amendment tends to defend and support my position very clearly – as I am used to it, even though I may have been criticized: the veil has no place in the amphitheatres of our universities. Even if that is not the main argument, I would like first of all to quote in support of my position the result of a poll, according to which 78% of our citizens are opposed to wearing the veil at university. If I want to defend this position, it is also, and above all, by thinking of the women to whom we impose a garment symbol of "servance" – to use the word used by Mr. keepers of seals before our special commission. In addition, in my view, the university and the great schools are the framework of reason, science and lights par excellence. On the contrary, the veil represents enslavement, obscurantism, the fact that the woman can only embody an object of temptation that should be concealed. In a country of freedom which claims equality between men and women, I believe that this obscurantism no longer has its place, especially in the classrooms. Today, however, we see the demands rising. In some universities and large schools, the day before yesterday, the "Hijab Day" took place: that is to say, as, in our country, retreats or advances conquered souls as well as territories. Well, I don't want tomorrow, in our university, every day to become. a "Hijab Day" It is necessary to erect guards, to erect dykes. Examples from all over the world show the struggle of women who want to free themselves from this enslavement, from this prison that locks them up: let us listen to their suffering and their will! I know that some will object to the argument of religious freedom – you will be in it, minister – but it may have limits. They already exist in higher education, for example in the preparatory classes of high schools or in the major schools, in the BDS – sports offices – which take part in higher education. These limits are not contrary to our constitutional principles. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Finally, the Conference of University Presidents also recalled that while freedom was the rule, it could suffer the existence of limits if certain behaviours reflected a kind of proselytism. Who can deny that today the veil embodies for many the proselytism of Islamism that we want to proscribe from higher education?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u453	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u454	We will address several topics related to veiling and, more generally, religious neutrality. It seems to me, Mrs Buffet, that it is a legitimate debate that must take place here: not only is it not unworthy, but it is asking important questions. I therefore hope that, on this subject, we will emerge from the usual postures. We propose, with these amendments, to ensure religious neutrality in the teaching spaces of the university. The university is an intellectual matrix, now traversed by powerful and destructive movements called decolonialism, racialism, indigenism, intersectionality. In short, we are dealing with an ideological offensive, on behalf of minorities who consider themselves oppressed because of their race, religion or sex. It results from this powerful and destructive movement an obstacle to academic freedom, intimidation of those responsible for academic institutions, a threat to scholarly knowledge, the very ones that are empirically substantiated and logically irreproachable. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to read the recent call from the Observatory of Decolonialism and Identity Ideologies, which denounces "new fanatical militantisms" and aims to combat militant movements that intend to "impose a radical critique of democratic societies". This is a separatist offensive that we must take action on. I will cite two examples, one French, the other foreigner, because this movement is not limited to France, even if France can provide a specific answer: in our country, we have banned the representation of a piece of Eschyle; At the University of Leicester, medieval literature will no longer be taught, replaced by a course on race and sexuality. Eric Ciotti mentioned the "Hijab Day"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u455	You're generalizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u456	You cannot ignore that a very large number of our compatriots are, like us, struck by this initiative. Minister, this text lacks strong signals, strong symbols of our resistance, of France's resistance, to this work of domination. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Faced with the Islamist threat, our collective state of mind must be in the "general mobilization", in the words of François Baroin. The latter supported the cause of secularism and religious neutrality in primary and secondary schools, which ended in 2004 at the doors of universities. This must not be left to the point when this debate has grown, conflict situations have multiplied, and the wearing of the veil develops into a social norm in places. How can we accept this in our country? That is why we propose that religious neutrality be extended to university teaching spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u457	Anything! You're an ignorant woman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u458	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u459	This amendment is in line with the previous ones. Mr Minister, you are well aware, because we debated it in the special committee, that your text completely omits the subject of the university. Yet, as my colleagues Annie Genevard and Eric Ciotti have reminded us, it has gradually become the prey of religious proselytism and communalism. François Baroin's report "For a new secularism", submitted in 2003, therefore prior to the 2004 law, did not recommend prohibiting the wearing of the Islamic headscarf at university. It must be noted that today the threat has evolved; We must therefore, in a collective spirit, fully mobilize ourselves in the service of the republican principles that give their name to your bill. Academic staff are obliged to respect secularism, but this is not the case for students: it is finally amendments of consistency that we propose to you to adopt, in order to put each other on an equal footing, and that they are better able to live together the principles of the Republic. Accordingly, this amendment is intended to prohibit university students from wearing signs or outfits that ostensibly manifest religious affiliation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u460	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 878.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u461	Yesterday, the places where French universities are taught are now faced with separatism and proselytism. In order to ensure the spread of the spirit of the Enlightenment, and to enable women and men to emancipate themselves from their social milieu, from their origins, these places are today the scene of intolerable demonstrations in new forms, carried by those whom I consider to be enemies of the Republic. Student unions, formerly attended by some MPs who sit on the benches of the majority or of the left opposition, allow themselves to hold meetings prohibited to persons whose sex or colour of skin is not suitable. All this undermines the universalism whose idea is found in the etymology itself of the name "university". Minister, it must not be denied that religious proselytism is becoming more and more widespread in higher education institutions. Just read the press; it is enough to know that young girls are threatened, at the exit of their IUT – university institute of technology – because they do not wear the veil; It is enough to see the disarray of the teachers when provocateurs demand that the courses continue despite the presence of students who are clearly, deliberately, part of an approach that is both communalism and religious proselytism. We must give them the means to react. We cannot leave our university professors alone, our students alone, we cannot abandon them in the face of this threat, in what is supposedly a holy place, a sanitized and preserved place. That is why we are many, within the Republican Group, to propose that you prohibit the wearing of ostentatious religious signs in our higher education institutions. You cannot object, Minister, that this prohibition would be contrary to the freedom of conscience of persons of age, since it already applies in certain places of higher education; I am thinking in particular of the preparatory classes in high schools. It is therefore not a question of free choice, of free will, but of political courage: that is where we are waiting for you today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u462	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u463	Amendment No 1152 by Mr Aurélien Pradié is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u464	The purpose of these amendments is to extend to the university the prohibition of ostensible religious signs applied in schools since the Act of 15 March 2004. However, this latter measure is an exception to our conception of secularism: it is justified by the specificity of the school and its users. The students are young, they are under construction: the absence of confrontations between religions, between communities, is essential for the courses to take place in good conditions. Jean Zay, an authority in this area, wrote that "schools must remain the inviolable asylum where men's quarrels do not penetrate."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u465	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u466	Should this ban be extended to university?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u467	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u468	I understand that the situation in the latter is a cause for debate, but it is completely different from the situation in the school. With the exception of the gifted, those who frequent her are major; Thanks to their schooling, I hope they are able to form opinions. They study in diversity. The university is a place where we exchange ideas, all kinds of ideas. The main thing is that they can all express themselves – so I understand your reservations when you talk about certain situations. Everyone must be able to express his or her opinion. If the university is not open to the world, it is a failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u469	Do you consider the wearing of the veil as an opening to the world?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u470	For all these reasons, although I hear some of your arguments, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u471	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u472	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u473	As you might have known, ladies and gentlemen, a number of you have asked to speak. Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u474	As the rapporteur has just explained, we need to put things in context. If religious neutrality is imposed in primary and secondary education, but not in higher education, it is because the 2004 law was intended to protect students, our children. A minor is at the age when he or she builds his or her mind: for this reason he or she must not be influenced by adults or his or her comrades in school. Hence the prohibition of ostensible religious signs. On the contrary, when you enter university, you are a major, a young adult; one begins to assert his opinions, his philosophical, political, religious choices; So we can come dressed as we wish. For this reason, Mr. Dumont, the students of the preparatory classes and BTS – a graduate technician's certificate – are consciously accepting the rules of procedure of the second degree establishment on which they depend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u475	Like, it's not awkward!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u476	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Mrs Genevard, I agree with you that today there is a great deal of drift in universities. Groups advocate a sort of separatism by organizing white or non-white meetings, totally "unmixed". It's a fact; But the measure you're defending won't solve the problem. On the contrary, by prohibiting religious signs, you would radicalize these students, you would strengthen them in their theses: it would be counterproductive. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, please, Mr. Ciotti, stop distracting the words from the guard of the seals. Mr. Eric Dupond-Moretti did not say what you claimed, that the veil was a tool of oppression,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u477	Occurrence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u478	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Above all, he claimed that wearing it was a choice, a matter of freedom of conscience. Stop talking about oppression! The President of the Republic himself said: we cannot put ourselves in the place of a veiled woman. Some, in some countries, may perceive their veil as a sign of oppression, others may not. How can we make a difference? You're not in their place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u479	It's about women's enslavement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u480	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues of the Republicans Group, several interventions are expected on this subject in a moment. If you could listen to those who are not entirely in your sense with the respect they deserve, everything would go well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u481	We listened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u482	We should make the same point to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u483	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u484	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The debate is very complicated. We talk a lot about the veil, but not about other religious signs – even political signs, as my colleague Thomas Rudigoz reminded me. At one of Lyon's universities, some far-right people thus claimed their political colour, raising the same questions as the ostentatious religious signs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u485	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u486	Whatever you think, the veil is a pluralized sign. Not all women wear it for the same reasons. Let's stop believing that it only translates the subjection of the woman. Even if one is opposed to it, let us not forget that it has several meanings and that there is not only one reason to wear it. I would also like to point out that the Conference of University Presidents has voted against the ban on veiling at university. University is universalism. It is the place where one forges one's personality and knowledge in science, politics, the religious field or in many other fields. This is what the history of the university reveals in the Middle Ages: the University of Paris was created on these principles, especially by the religious, before gradually evolving. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about the Enlightenment: since then, the university has worked a lot. The veil symbol is polysemic and not proselyte. What we have to fight is the behaviour of people – whether they wear the veil or not – who do not respect the rules of the education system and of research, or who speak about disorder to public order. That we must fight without ambiguity. On the other hand, we must not fight the habit in itself. I would also like to point out that speaking of religious signs by mentioning only the veil is a matter of xenophobia and stigmatization. This is reprehensible. Let us not catalogue a single part of the population and let us listen to the students in our universities. Let us make sure that an awareness allows those who wear the veil by entering the university to withdraw it gradually when they leave it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u487	They won't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u488	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] But let's not make sure they can't get in!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u489	You didn't listen, you don't look at reality in the face!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u490	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u491	First of all, I would like to speak on the substance of your amendments, ladies and gentlemen. You propose that at university, we apply the same rules and laws as those in schools where underage children study. Since the 2004 law, distinctive signs are actually prohibited – and that is a good thing. But the school is not at all the same as the university, which hosts majors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u492	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u493	Citizens trained, they exercise their free will and debate among themselves. The case of the university is therefore not the same as that of the school, especially elementary, where we actually claim that a young person in training is recognised above all as a citizen as another and not as a member of a community; At school, the debate must be held between young citizens in training. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I will then point out that, as usual, you make arguments and facts without any source and exaggerate certain phenomena. Jean-Louis Bianco explained in 2016 that in all and for all, in universities, 140 incidents related to religious signs had been recorded, of which 20 to 25 related to the veil. You are amplifying this phenomenon to make it a fantasy and to suggest that our country is, as you always say, facing a separatist danger as it would call into question the foundations of the Republic. The amendments that you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen, and those that will follow, are therefore not only contrary to the 1905 law, but are, in fact, intended to prohibit only one distinctive sign in public space – the veil. That's all it's about. I hear Mr Ciotti or Mrs Genevard, I heard Mrs Ménard: this sign should be banned because it would be a symbol of women's submission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u494	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u495	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] But be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because the subjection of women to men is included in the texts and religious manifestations of the three monotheistic religions, and sometimes in their distinctive signs. Do you know, for example, that the veil of a Christian bride means the subjection of the wife to her husband?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u496	And the bride's garter is a sign of submission?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u497	That's really bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u498	It's exactly the same as for nuns! Reread the texts. In the name of this claim, are you going to ask that religious marriages no longer take place in the same way from now on? All this refers, in the Christian religion, to a very clear idea: Lilith was considered a demon because she was born of clay like Adam, unlike Eve. She was thus banished because she wanted to be equal to man. Are you going to consider that any religious sign supporting this vision of woman and man is to be banished? Of course not! You're not gonna do it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u499	In college, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u500	...for since the 1905 law, it is fortunately considered that these distinctive signs in the public space should possibly be contradicted by pedagogy and debate, and not prohibited. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] You actually impose the ban on only one religion. Your proposal is not to ban this sign of submission from all public space, or even to ban it from schools: when we proposed amendments calling for an end to the prohibition of mixedness in certain schools under contract, where girls and boys are separated, you voted against and even fought them. So your concern is not that one. It is only to persecute one religion and its distinctive signs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u501	Stop it, that's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u502	You think we don't have any Muslim friends, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u503	If we adopt the amendments that you have tabled and those that will follow, you would develop in our country a potential climate of civil war and division. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It would be enough for you to walk around France to see that, if the women you are aiming at – you are always aiming at women – wear the veil, what one can regret politically or philosophically, is absolutely not by adhering to a fundamentalist vision of their religion, and much less by reason of some terrorist drift. You simply propose discrimination against one religion. It's called anti-Muslim racism. That is the substance of your amendments, and it is quite frankly problematic that this bill will allow you to express it and set up this rotten debate in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u504	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u505	On such a thorny subject, our compatriots deserve a calm and serene debate. I have the honour of being a full-time teacher in higher education since 1998 and have seen an increasing number of veiled students arrive on the benches of the amphitheatres in the 2000s. I am not afraid to say that I have experienced it with great suffering – I agree with some of the comments made by our colleagues earlier on. I experienced it, originally, as an assault. It was my deep conviction, a feeling that placed me in a very uncomfortable posture in the face of the new student population. But a distinction must be made between what one feels deeply and what one has to legislate on. In this area, we must do our part. First – this has been said several times – the students we are talking about are major. We cannot impose a dress policy on them, at the risk of becoming the ones we are about to fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u506	Is it forbidden to ban?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u507	We would do the same thing as them, finally, and would not send a good signal. Secondly, the French universities retain a force of attraction for foreign populations, especially of the Muslim faith, with whom they work in terms of openness to the critical mind. Finally, this issue has a more intellectual dimension. I consider it ninefold for having been confronted with it as a secular referent for years and for having lived in Egypt for a long time: even if the students who arrive at university are young adults, they are actually children. But the university's mission is precisely to emancipate them, to lead them on a path of building the mind and personality. That is what makes the virtue of the system in which we live. We don't have to worry about how the students are dressed and whether or not they are veiled – as for the young boys, their forehead is sometimes marked by the zabiba, a dark spot that is a clear sign of piety. The object is not there: it is to build free spirits, in all the dimensions that the mind can assume. I therefore do not think that it is beneficial to legislate in this area. I will add one last point: for the young girls we are talking about, university is often the first place of emancipation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u508	Is wearing the veil a sign of emancipation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u509	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] ... after they attended a college and a high school already kind of ghettoized. For the first time in their lives, they have the opportunity to mix with other audiences. It is consistently observed that after a first year in which they remain marginalized, they tend to become more involved with other audiences as they progress in their curriculum. I do not think that the ban on sailing in universities would be a positive sign, even if I am sensitive to the arguments that have been raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u510	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u511	I thank my colleague Christophe Euzet for the words he has just spoken. We do need appeasement in this debate, wherever we speak and whatever our history and culture we have grown up in. I say it in the most honest way: my mom wears the veil. She happened to accompany us, little ones, on school trips. If she wears the veil, it's not by proselytism as I could hear, but for cultural reasons. She grew up almost with the veil, in Morocco, then found herself here in France, with her children. When she was driving us to school, she was sometimes a little ashamed to go in with the veil, but she did it because we were her children and she was our mother. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and FI groups and on several benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] Some of the words I've heard hurt my heart. Without wanting to do so – I am sure you are not in bad faith, ladies and gentlemen – you are insulting a part of the French population, who feels offended in what it has most intimately [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Applause on some benches of the LaREM groups, on several benches of the SOC and FI groups and on the benches of the GDR group]] We're talking about high school and college. As far as high school is concerned, no one is contesting the 2004 law, even though a few opposing opinions are still being expressed. The law is fully integrated, and since the 1980s and 1990s there has been no debate. As for the university, the problem is not that of the veil. Your problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that of Islam as such, which is a social fact. Islam is there; It is part of the French religions, of our culture. Muslims, like my grandparents today, have fought for our freedom. Today, you explain to their grandchildren that they are wrong and that their religion is bad! But radical Islamists should not be confused with Islam as you do today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u512	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u513	I am very pleased that this debate is taking place in the House and not elsewhere. It is to our honour that all points of view can be expressed. I will pass on the amalgam that Mrs Genevard has done between the indigenous movements, almost racialist, and the wearing of the veil. I'll need to be told if there's a report, because, honestly, I don't see much of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u514	Separatism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u515	On the question of the veil at university, the amendments before us have some implication, and I would like you to be clearer, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Ciotti, when you present them. First implied: the women who wear the veil are inferior beings who are not able to reflect, especially on how they want to dress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u516	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u517	You think it's a sign of submission. It turns out that in France, other people think the opposite – and they are French and French in their own right. I don't think it's our responsibility to tell a woman how to dress. The second implication, which is not really one since I have heard these words here, is that all veiled women are a threat to the Republic. For my part, I do not think that veiled women are a threat to the Republic. The real problem, Mr Ciotti, Mrs Genevard and all of you who have tabled these amendments, is not what women – in this case the students – have on their heads, but what they have in mind, in other words, the possibility for these people to come to university. What matters is to meet the other, to be confronted with another, that's how we build ourselves, and that's how our Republic was built. By wanting to deprive students of this otherness and deny them access to university, you participate in separatism, you promote it, which is exactly the opposite of what needs to be done! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Gérard Leseul also applauds]] By denying veiled women access to university – or at least prohibiting students from wearing the veil at university – you stigmatize a population like Mr. El Guerrab just said. It is dangerous for our country to suggest that wearing the veil is the first step towards separatism or even a terrorist act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u518	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u519	I will explain why we will vote against these amendments. First of all because we deeply believe that, in the ideological struggle we have to wage against the totalitarian political project of the Islamists, we must be careful not to denature ourselves – for if we denature ourselves, we allow the Islamists to win a first ideological victory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u520	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u521	It is a historical contradiction to want to regulate the university according to secularism. As someone pointed out earlier, the university was born in the Middle Ages, throughout European civilization, as a religious fact – and if it is universalistic, it is precisely because it was intended to organize relations between religious universities through the Catholic religion. To affirm today that the university should lay down itself is a contradiction, since the evolution of the university has precisely allowed debate and contradiction. I heard earlier that college was the place where we were forging. For my part, I believe that, if we forge at school before we become a university, there is a big difference between the two, which does not lie simply in the fact that the students are adults. At school, we do not accept the debate, we do not accept confrontation, we do not accept the contradiction of the principles that make us live together: it is the raison d'être of the programmes, but also the principles of secularism that we apply to them. This is quite different at university, based on research, debate, confrontation and contradiction in all fields, whether politics, social issues, mathematics or physics. The university is by its essence the place of confrontation, including religious confrontation. I note that with these amendments you are questioning another principle, which we have just confirmed in Article 1, a principle which must not be touched upon, according to which secularism applies to the public service, and not to the user: you want to make the university a place where the user would be forced. Quite frankly, this leads to other debates, those of the secularity of the user in the many other public services, of the employee in his or her workplace, and finally of all the people in the public space. And the veil, which seems to some to be an obsessive concern, is not the only ostentatious religious sign that can be seen in public services, in the workplace and in the street. What are you doing with the other signs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u522	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u523	With these amendments, you are setting in motion a gear that makes no sense and that gives reason to those who want to mark society religiously, since you allow them to open debates that do not exist at the present time. I don't understand this sailing story...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u524	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u525	Why would that be normal, ma'am? I would like to be explained why more attention should be paid to the veil than to holding a man with his convictions in an assertive or even militant way – I am thinking of wearing a beard, a djellaba or trousers whose name I have forgotten but which is, in a way, a uniform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u526	A sarouel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u527	If I understand correctly, do you think that men can go to college in this way, but that a veiled woman has no right to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u528	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u529	Excuse me: what I have just described is a clearly communal sign, but not a religious ostentatious sign, and you would find it difficult to prove otherwise, since there is no precept in this matter. You are going to ban a member of the Loubavich community from going to university and you are going to help create, as we have already done, private religious universities. There is a certain hypocrisy not to recognize that, if we cannot train imams in public universities, we do it at La Catho de Lille! So you're going to create confessional universities that will be perfectly legitimate. This is what happened in Catholic schools immediately after the 2004 law: the arrival of many people of Muslim or Hindu faith was observed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u530	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u531	In my constituency there is a school with a majority of Sikh children: this is due to the fact that the veil of the little girls was banned in public school, so the young Sikh men wearing a turban were also excluded and therefore had to go to Catholic schools or private schools created especially for them. It seems to me that opening up a debate which, on the basis of an erroneous concept, leads to a violation of old principles, puts us at great risk. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, after hearing President Genevard talk about the indigenist and racialist movements, I must say that I totally share the feeling that we must combat the drift that is happening. However, this drift is not the result of an action carried out in the name of a religion: it was born in the name of ethnic communalism and a political ideology that must be combated by politics. Perhaps the law should be applied with much more rigour. For my part, I am terrified that we are debating in this Chamber the fact that meetings can be banned for whites or others: on one side of the Chamber, we find it scandalous that there are meetings prohibited for non-whites, on the other side that there are prohibitions against whites... In reality, French law must simply be applied, which prohibits any form of discrimination without establishing a hierarchy between them. It is discrimination to prohibit a woman, a white person or a non-white person from entering a meeting. It is by the law of the Republic that we must fight all racist political ideologies, not by amalgamating with religion, which has little, to say nothing about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u532	Ladies and gentlemen, it is nineteen hours and several of you still wish to speak on these amendments. For the consistency and readability of our debate, it would be good if we concluded the joint debate before the end of this sitting, which is why I call for the responsibility of everyone and I invite you to express yourself as concisely as possible. In any event, we will not be able to extend this meeting beyond nineteen hours forty-five. Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u533	Mr President, I would like to remind you that we are in scheduled legislative time, and that the importance of the subject we are debating justifies that everyone should be able to speak as he wishes. I note that you are not at a close contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. You tell us that the veil is forbidden in secondary schools, which is normal, since we are dealing with minors, and that students attending university can wear what they want, since they are adults. In this case, if I understand correctly, are you going to vote for our amendments prohibiting the wearing of religious signs by minors? Minors are individuals under construction, who must be protected from any lack of religious neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u534	This is school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u535	There is a lot of angelism in your speeches, and if you reread the debates of the 2004 law, you will find the same arguments. One can always invoke a particular situation. Mr El Guerrab told us about his mother and the minister does not deprive himself of regularly mentioning his grandfather, but I think we are legislating beyond personal situations and that our enemy is not such or such an individual situation: our enemy is militant separatism. It is the link with the veil: when at university, we organize the "Hijab Day", we are not in the free expression of a religious conviction, but in a separatist and militant approach. I will not dwell on the rather grotesque comparison that has been made between the Islamic veil and the veil of marriage, which does not deserve attention. I asked in committee the question whether religious freedom is a freedom without hindrance. For me, academic freedom must be respected. University professors are embroiled by the movements that go through the university, and I am erased by the silence of the Minister of Higher Education on this subject. The university was ill and the Government remained silent on those issues, which was not admissible. As for the confusion between Islam and Islamism, it is you who do it by lending us malicious intentions towards Islam, while we keep saying that our target is not Islam, but the ideological drift of Islamism. It is you who cause confusion by making us this reproach, and that is not acceptable. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, I would like those who talk about the emancipation of veiled women to explain to me how veiling would be a sign of emancipation. I remind you that this recommendation does not appear in the Qur'an, but that it was imposed late. When one sees photos of female students in Kabul in the 1970s, wind hair and short skirts, and compares them to the current situation of Afghan women, there is reason to wonder about the alleged freedom that the veil would constitute!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u536	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u537	First of all, I would like to point out that the Minister of Higher Education has remained very silent on a completely different subject than the veil, namely the extremely worrying situation of the students in the face of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u538	On everything that affects the university!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u539	Endorsing the argument put forward by Laurence Vichnievsky, our group will vote against these amendments. I am not bringing the perpetrators to trial, because this House is a place for debate, where all positions must be able to express themselves. For my part, I am not trying to convince my colleagues and I am pleased that a large part of Members agree that there is a user on the one hand and a person engaged in a public service mission on the other. Reference was made to the 2004 Act and the derogation mechanism justified by the fact that they were children, apprentices and vulnerable persons. This is no longer the case at a university, and I find it quite outrageous for academics that they are not able to control this situation. It is when there are drifts – we do not accept more than you, because we are neither in angelism nor in the will to cover drifts – that we must act, ensuring that universities have the means to resist unacceptable pressures, if any, from radical Islamism that we want to fight. Finally, let us not forget that university is the place of expression, freedom and knowledge. Persons wishing to study cannot be taken hostage by referring them to an origin, behaviour or clothing that is not considered to be tolerable. France, that's not it. University is openness to the international world, it is the vocation to open borders and minds, and it seems to me contrary to these principles to envisage a ban on veiling at university which, in any case, will not solve the problem that you are seeking to solve. If your goal is to avoid drifts, let's work together on these issues, but let's leave the students free, so that they come in confidence to the university. If they are Muslims and wear a veil, how does that bother us? In fact, we are in 2021, and you have been asking the same question since 2004, suggesting that the problem is endless. Assuming you get a ban on sailing at the university, you would then ask for a ban on sailing in the public space, on the street, on the journey between home and university. We absolutely must remain reasonable. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Stéphane Peu and M的jid El Guerrab also applaud]] With this text, we aim to gather around republican principles; We want to defend through it a common language necessary to live together in society. We cannot begin with a ban on writing, which amounts to giving a bad rating to a part of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u540	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u541	I want to highlight two terms: "democratisation" and "emancipation". It is true, and I am particularly pleased, that the university is finally in the image of the population, of the French nation: the diversity of origins, of intellectual positions, of the religious beliefs of the students shows that the university has democratized. Then it is a place of emancipation. Everyone arrives at the end of a journey of childhood and adolescence; After becoming a major player, he will confront the debate of ideas, draw up a critique of what is being said to him, a reflection. This place of emancipation must be preserved for everyone; We must not exclude some from emancipation work because of religious clothing, and tell them that they will not be. On the contrary, let us make sure that they are at the heart of this work, where the critical mind is exercised. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Genevard, the obstacle to academic freedom is of course intolerable, the opposition to the representation of a cultural work is of course intolerable, the "racialised" meetings are of course intolerable. You denounce them very accurately, but what is the connection with your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u542	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u543	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I have the privilege of being old, but I'm very happy with what I've heard. A generation ago, the reign of Marxists and Communists was denounced at university, and terrible representations were made of it. I do not remember that anything was banned, and I wonder to what extent this did not disadvantage our opinion. Today, I'd be looking for Marxists in college at the lantern, and I'd have a lot of trouble finding them. That's the way it is! In the end, we lost, and you won. How did this happen? The weight of life, the circumstances, the logic of exchanges and social relations have finally organized things differently. I would like to make myself useful to the debate by providing some clarifications, without which, as Marie-George Buffet said, we do not understand the relationship between the concepts you denounce and your amendments; without which, above all, one could believe that there are theories of indigenism, racialization and intersectionality, all of which would threaten the balance of our institutions, as yesterday we were talking about a theory of gender. First, ideas are ideas. Then there was never a theory of the genre; There are tools in sociology, art and other fields to explain that gender is a cultural construction. Academics thus normally fulfil their role by questioning how these archetypes are produced. Similarly, the fears of intersectionalism make me laugh, because it is only a matter of analysing how different forms of discrimination can be added up. This requires identifying, analyzing and explaining the mechanism of their combination. This is an intellectual work, which does not date from today: read Frantz Fanon and you will learn a lot about the stacking mechanisms! Yes! In the same way, the study of racialization consists in denouncing the construction, based on racist archetypes, discriminations and identity assignments: such would have the rhythm in the skin, another I don't know what, you know all this as well as I do. Intersectionality is a concept that allows us to analyze how discrimination adds up and to identify the parts of the population for which they are dramatically accumulating – generally women, as always.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u544	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u545	Similarly, indigenism is a political movement aimed at defining the singular place indigenous peoples occupy in societies to which they do not recognize any rights, and which themselves consider their customs to be absolutely alien to positive law. Combining these two representations is a real challenge throughout Latin America, where a debate takes place, but not in France, since there are no natives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u546	I mean, he's in charge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u547	Colleague, stop yelling, I'm trying to explain! You will then take the floor, but respect my speech, and I make arguments. Thus, the indigenists consider that there are natives in France, an idea that for my part I fight, because it is absurd and that it would cause us to retreat. In all the areas I have just mentioned, this is a battle of ideas! I fully understand that we cannot stand the veil, but that is not the question: how the law can distinguish what is the most intimate right to freedom of conscience and faith, from the common law, while guaranteeing the same freedom of conscience. I believe that we are now the overwhelming majority in this House to distinguish between those who operate the public service and its users. The former must in no way, by their clothing or behaviour, and I stress the importance of behaviour, send signs to the latter that humiliate them. Indeed, every religion is for the other one a heresy, so the most fundamentally believers have no intention of showing that they submit to someone. Where will we go if you remove the border between the agents and the users? Moving from one idea to the other, and to the other, we'll ban everything. You excite women who are forced to wear a veil in some countries, and who run into prison if they don't put it on. You are a thousand times right to denounce their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u548	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u549	But we want to do precisely the opposite: not put anyone in prison because of their clothing and allow everyone the freedom to dress in their own way. If a way of dressing arouses frustration, it is necessary to militate; It is up to the activists to explain and win the membership, not to impose by coercion. Indeed, wearing a veil on the head never assaulted anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u550	You've changed a lot! Ten years ago, you said you didn't.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u551	In the area of religion, the law only prohibits practices which, for example, harm individuals; The law can only punish acts, not opinions. The only reprehensible opinion in our country is racism, and we declare that it is not an opinion. I hope I have helped to shed light on terms whose use might otherwise lead to confusion. As far as the veil is concerned, I think it is entirely legitimate for a colleague to give an example of a situation which he is familiar with. Of course, the law does not deal with an addition of specific cases, but we consider ourselves sufficiently, Mrs Genevard, to know that you will not remain indifferent by learning that millions of people feel humiliated by being so targeted. For my part, I would never have asked my grandmother not to put the veil she was wearing on her head, because at that time, a woman in her hair was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u552	It's pitiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u553	Of course, it can be a smile today, but I wouldn't have had the forehead to go and tell him to take this off to be released, and I don't know what. I won't tell you you're wrong! Yesterday, Ms. Ménard said that she knew the Catholic religion well enough to be able to talk about it; I do not disagree, since in his town hall, they even set up crèches, which is a sign of secularism quite obvious to all those who go through it. But finally, why not? However, madame, the Catholic religion is the only one in which a founding father, Saint Paul, says that the woman must veil herself to mark her submission to the man.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u554	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u555	Tertullian, who is the greatest promoter of the doctrine of the Trinity, says that not to hide is to engage in prostitution. Fortunately, the Church is no longer there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u556	Thank you for highlighting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u557	Nevertheless, I challenge you to find a single picture in which the mother of Christ and those around her are represented without a veil on her head. So, gracefully, let us avoid the absurd wars of religion! The Catholic Church has evolved. Speaking of evolution, in my young time, anticlericals like me were going to naught those who wore the habit or the soutane; I don't do it anymore, which sometimes upsets some comrades. I don't want it since I've seen men and women in ecclesiastical clothes die with mine, in Argentina or in other Latin American countries. I no longer want to laugh at them, and I greet their martyrdom in the struggle alongside the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u558	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u559	So we have to do the part. It consists of relying on a certain tenderness for life and admitting that there are, of course, militants. As France has changed, my God! The expression I use bears witness to this. Before Easter last year, I was at the bistro with the boss, a good Muslim. It was a Friday, and we saw guys go down the street with socks up to their knees – they were Salafists. We were balding arms exclaiming: "Ah, there, what a comedy! When a procession bearing a cross passed in the other direction – evangelists! France has certainly changed. Will we solve the problems of this order by brutality? No! That there is a will of political Islamism to subvert institutions is of course true, but the question is how to fight its supporters. It is a matter of not offering them victory by making representatives of all those who believe, acting as if all believers were supporters of Islamism. It's absurd, three-quarters of the people involved would defend themselves. I add that such an allegation is sometimes difficult to swallow...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u560	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u561	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] ... when one remembers the mutual solidarity that emerged when ours fought against Islamists, whether in Algeria or Tunisia. Those who were killed were killed by the political Islamists, they were often one of us, and they felt very lonely. I do not blame anyone, but I ask that, on the contrary, we have the honesty not to turn into the surrogacy of causes that they have always fought, people who, like me, like others on other benches, plead for civil peace. Indeed, the real objective is to maintain civil peace in that country. As long as we're alive, as long as we talk, as long as we fight, there's hope for the Republic; If there's only the prison and the police left, it's over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u562	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u563	This evening we are witnessing a beautiful debate, the arguments of which are admissible. Some use personal experiences, I hear them. It deals with an unquestionably essential point, our exchanges prove it, and it is to the honour of our Assembly to deliberate on it. If one of the amendments under discussion were adopted, this would lead to a major break, identical to that caused by the 2004 law, which is a reference for us, since it allowed the greatest progress since 1905. It is almost certain that this will not be the case tonight, but I believe that this debate deserves the Government's clarification. I am surprised that the Minister for the Interior did not give an opinion on these amendments before leaving the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u564	He gave it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u565	You have replaced her, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, and I hope you will deliver an opinion; It's your duty. How would the Government not have an opinion on such an essential subject? How would you personally, who are so associated with the fight for equality between men and women, not have an opinion on this debate on the veil, which is part of a form of enslavement? I take the word of the seal keeper, although it seems to me that Mrs Rihlac has challenged both the fact that I am defending my arguments and the fact that I am quoting the Minister of Justice. I will quote again, speaking in the course of his current duties, as well as the Minister of the Interior when he was a Member of Parliament. The guard of the seals thus made it very clear, in special commission, that the veil could be "a choice". Mr. El Guerrab and Mr. Ahamada also said so. That's right. But the guard of the seals adds that the veil can be "an enslavement", and that is what is being debated and problematic. Ladies and gentlemen, can we tolerate "an enslavement" in our democracy? That is the fundamental question that is being asked. What is the veil today? I'll name three people. In 1989, Cheikh Haddam, the rector of the great mosque in Paris, replied to the press during the "case of scarves" of the College of Creil: "The Qur'an is clear: he recommends that the Muslim woman cover herself to avoid any form of seduction. » In June 2016, on a peripheral radio, Gérald Darmanin said: "I think that women who wear [...] very large clothes that just leave their face, this is no longer entirely acceptable in the Republic. » On 13 April 2016, in an interview with Libération, Manuel Valls, who sat in your ranks, my dear colleagues of the majority, and who was a great Republican Prime Minister – I say to Francis Chouat – made the following remarks: "... this identity veil, political, claimed as such, by hiding the woman, aims to deny it. How can we ignore that women are under cultural pressure in the working-class neighbourhoods of sexism and machoism? » I mean, I'm coming back to college with one last quote. In this connection, I would like to point out that, in substance and from a legal point of view, our amendment has as its object a public service and was therefore declared admissible by the sitting. I say this to President Lagarde: I am in favour of requiring public service users, like agents, to be neutral, not in public space, but in public services. We will defend amendments to that effect. That would be a development. Finally, I said, in 2013, just as you were expressing your own uneasiness in front of your students, Mr. Euzet, the secular mission of the High Council for Integration was concerned that at the university "a growing number of teachers are experiencing in front of students ostensibly bearing signs of religious affiliation that appear as symptoms of the rise of identity and communal claims, of closure, or even of ostracism, of refusal of certain knowledge". That's the problem, don't deny it. You're talking about freedom, but we're all committed to freedom! I appeal, for my part, to the freedom of those who do not wear the veil at university. They, too, are shocked to have their religious affiliation imposed. And I make it clear that I am not only aiming for one religious sign, but, of course, all religious signs. Ladies and gentlemen, in conscience, and this is not a legal question: are there still many Jewish students who can carry the kippa in the amphitheatres of certain universities? No. They were ousted from wearing this religious sign, by fear, by force, and by the pressure of proselytism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u566	That's not true! Stop waving fantasies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u567	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] That is the reality, and we must also think of their freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u568	Thank you, Mr. Ciotti. You said that the Government had no opinion on your amendment. He has one and he gave it to you: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u569	It's a little light!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u570	It was a little short!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u571	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u572	This issue which has been infused in the public debate for a long time, as well as that of the veiled attendants we will discuss later, does not seem to me to be illegitimate. Many of us share the view that it is normal for the House to debate it. [[Applause on several LR benches. – Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson and Mrs Stephanie Rist also applaud]] The same protagonists are animating the debates that we have already had: on the one hand, those who see in the smallest centimeter of veil an almost automatic continuum with separatism, or even with terrorism, and, on the other, those who, in a naive confounding, a form of inexplicable denial, deny the existence of separatism within the university and refuse to admit that the rigorist religious signs clearly testify to the intricacies of radical Islam at university. The two points of view are of course valid, if one listens to arguments developed on the right as well as on the left. Of course, some women wear the veil in university as in public space, because that's their choice. They do not pretend to convince anyone and there is no form of proselytism in their approach. It exercises the freedom conferred on them by the law: they are totally free to manifest and express their opinion, even religious, and to dress as they wish. However, the veil can also be an Islamist claim. That is why I think that this somewhat sterile debate between those who deny and those who exaggerate is a little futile. One can deplore the proliferation of religious signs in the public space and the progression of the wearing of the Islamist veil, which is my case, as, no doubt, that of the 61 per cent of French who declare that they do not belong to any religion. We have the right to say that the veil does not really correspond to the idea that we have relations between women and men. Is it necessary to legislate on the veil at university? Frankly, I do not think so, because our view of secularism is not to prohibit adults from manifesting their freedom under the law. Another fight is, in my view, even more urgent and fundamental: that of defending republican universalism at university, against the blows of a dowry worn on it, that of defending the legacy of the Enlightenment against theories that are not anecdotal, Monsieur Mélenchon. If, for our part, we respect the debate of indigenist theses and intersectionality, the problem lies in the fact that the supporters of these theories themselves exclude all other debates. We must therefore fight their intolerance and a form of intellectual totalitarianism, and defend, at university, the freedom of debate and controversy as well as philosophical freedom, in the name of the history of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Whatever one might think, without naivety, without hysteria, the debate on the veil does not seem to me to be absolutely essential. That is why, in my personal capacity, I will not vote in favour of these amendments. Other issues are more urgent and they are everyone's business!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u573	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u574	The arguments against our amendments remind me of those of 2004 on the complete veil. It must be noted that today no one wants to go back to the texts of the time. I therefore do not despair that, in a future I hope to be near, you are thinking in line with these amendments and the ban on religious signs at university. I reply to the rapporteur, whom I listened with great attention and who said that the ban on religious signs at school was aimed at avoiding religious confrontation. Does that mean that this religious confrontation, which we do not want in schools, colleges and high schools, can take place at university? We don't think so. The university must be a place of appeasement, where everyone can follow teachings in complete freedom and serenity. Within our political formation – the UMP and then the Republicans – we have worked a lot on the various texts related to the veil, either in working groups or by organizing hearings. I remember this testimony of the mayor of a city in the suburbs of Paris, who said that he had organized a visit of the National Assembly for a neighbourhood association. At the start of his commune he accompanied this movement, which was attended only by women: as soon as the bus left the perimeter not of the city but of the neighborhood, he told us, an impressive number of them had removed the veil, proof that, for some, it was the social and religious pressure that imposed on them to wear it. Don't caricature me, it's not the case of all the women who wear the veil! [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] As we said in 2004 and then in 2010, during the debate on the bill prohibiting face concealment in public space, the ban helps to restore their freedom to a large number of women. These amendments make it possible to give women the freedom to dress as they wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u575	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u576	It is a question of whether or not we are still in a secular Republic. Behind the word "secularity", there is the question of religious practice, of believing or not believing. There is also the possibility of the choice made by emancipated women, when they are major – and the students are, in their vast majority. That is why the Dem Group will not vote in favour of the amendments tabled for the most part by members of the LR Group. The question to be asked is, therefore, freedom: do persons bearing these signs linked to a religion have the freedom to do so or not to do so? Do you not think, and I disagree on this point with the colleagues in the LR Group, that if they are forbidden to wear the veil, it will set up a form of victimization? However, we would like to recall the republican principles of integration and integration, those of the political debate that Mr Lagarde mentioned, since universities are the place where philosophical ideas are born and where political contradiction is held, where character is formed in order to face life. To prohibit these signs, especially the wearing of the veil, would be a totally counterproductive signal for those women who have overcome trials to enter university and who have made a choice, which is, as Marie-George Buffet said very well, that of emancipation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are therefore not at all in the sphere of the 2004 law. On the other hand, we would risk going the opposite way. Because I do not want more separatism, but more integration, I hope that these women will be given the opportunity they have today, because they are adults, because this is the way of their emancipation and their ability to choose the freedom of expression that is theirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u577	I believe that our House is sufficiently well informed about the amendments under joint discussion that we are going to be able to put to the vote. I would remind you that two of them are the subject of a public ballot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u578	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1613.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u579	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 202 Number of votes cast 196 Absolute majority 99 For adoption 29 Against 167
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u580	I put Amendment No. 20 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u581	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 203 Number of votes cast 199 Absolute majority 100 For adoption 31 Against 168
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u582	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-03-O1148.u583	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one fifteen hours: Further to the discussion of the draft law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
