ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u2	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor to put his question, No. 1382, on new genomic publishing techniques.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u3	Farmers are wondering about their short-term future. For many of them, the challenge is already to finish the year: in my Aube department, 30% of them are now in the red. They are also concerned about the turn of the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy, the CAP. Our society forgets a little quickly that their primary mission is to feed the world, and we see together that in France, our farmers play a role in a food chain that is of great value, whether in terms of quality, security, safety, diversity or quantity. However, they need to be accompanied in the environmental transition, in the protection of biodiversity and in the fight against global warming. In the face of these challenges, research and innovation must find their place. In order to limit the use of phytopharmaceuticals, varietal research is essential. To combat all attackers, NBTs – New Breaking Techniques, or new genomic publishing techniques – will be a real asset guaranteeing the sustainability of our agriculture, especially since they do not introduce exogenous genetic material. Mutagenesis or cell fusion cannot be put on the same plane as transgenic plants, which requires a necessary evolution. I quote from the Minister for Agriculture and Food: "The European legal framework is no longer compatible with the scientific framework". It's an important subject. There are those who talk a lot about agriculture – and most often dogmatically – and those who do and know it well. I know you do. We need to give our farmers a breath and perspective, and the NBT issue is essential for that. According to what timetable and in what forms does France intend to take initiatives to change the European legal framework for NBTs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u5	You are referring to an essential question, that of the place of science in our agriculture. You have often heard me say it, I believe a lot in the policy of reason: reason has too often been forgotten in the agricultural debate. It is essential to give it a new place, especially in the period we are living in where information circulates very quickly and can sometimes be gallvauded. The debate on these new technologies for varietal research calls for a great deal of reason. I believe in these new technologies, but many cartoons were made when I spoke on this subject. NBT, these new technologies, are not GMOs – genetically modified organisms. Moreover, it is a technology – which aims to accelerate varietal selection – and not an organism. 10000 years ago, when man sedentated, he practised solitude culture, starting to make varietal selection. Then, in the 19th century, it modernized this practice and, year after year, decade after decade, it improved the tools of varietal selection. NBTs are a tool for varietal selection: they accelerate the appearance of the plant in question at a place on the planet, without having the ability to identify it, even though it has beneficial properties such as reducing water stress or dependence on certain necessary inputs. First of all, we need to explain in a calm and reasoned way what these new technologies are and that these two plants, one coming out of this technology and the other not, cannot be differentiated in terms of the species, precisely because they are not GMOs and no gene is introduced that would not be a gene of the species. Secondly, we must demonstrate the advantages of these new technologies, in particular – this is a very important objective for me – in the fight against water stress. Thirdly, the legal framework is no longer compatible with the scientific agronomic framework, since the NBTs come under the only European regulation adopted today, namely the regulation on GMOs. As of the end of the month, the European Commission will therefore publish, at the request of the Member States, recommendations and an evaluation on this subject. It will then begin, after consultation with and in association with the Member States, the review cycle of the legal framework. You see, the deadlines are close and you can count on my commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u6	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u7	Thank you for the accuracy of your answer, Minister. I agree with you that NBTs are not GMOs. We must continue to explain this to public opinion and to a number of non-governmental organisations that have not understood what NBT can do for agriculture and the environment. This technology, which you recalled, is essential for the future to combat water stress and to limit the use of phytopharmaceuticals. I note that the Government intends to be offensive on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u8	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor to put his question, No 1386, on the exemption from territorial economic contribution for wine-growers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u9	First of all, I would like to have a thought for our médoc silviculturers, struck this weekend by a fire that devastated nearly 300 hectares. I know I can count on your ministry's support. Today I would like to draw your attention to the issue of viticulture, specifically that of the tax incentive to accompany our wine growers towards the ecological transition. As part of the discussion of the finance bill – PLF – last year, I proposed a tax incentive measure to encourage agroecology to maintain the exemption from territorial economic contribution – CET – the former business tax, for wine growers engaged in a process of exiting chemistry. I was told that this type of exemption was not appropriate and that there could be a risk of unconstitutionality in the light of the principle of equality before taxation. I am pleased to note that the Government encourages, through an optional exemption from territorial economic contribution, through article 42 of the PLF for 2021, the establishment or extension of enterprises in local and regional authorities. This article was not unconstitutional. I therefore assume that the partial or exceptional tax exemption that I proposed, a kind of tax differentiation accompanied by an ecological bonus, is quite possible. I regret that this type of exemption is not also a step towards sustainable development projects: many wine growers in France want to get out of chemistry, but the costs prevent them. Major groups – I know what I'm talking about in Médoc – have more facilities, since their own funds allow them to move towards a faster exit from chemistry and they benefit from massive support under the CAP. On the other hand, small-scale wine production does not have these facilities and faces financial difficulties in making this ecological transition. Applying this tax exemption would reduce the production costs of small-scale wine-growing enterprises, TPE-SME, and thus create margins for investing in reasoned agriculture. I do not deliberately talk about bio, because I prefer a good reasoned product to an organic product – bio can involve the presence of more copper and does not necessarily rhyme with responsible ecology. The municipalities would then gain in air quality and water quality. The debate is passionate in our territories, especially in urban areas where there are farmers, which would thus be less exposed to toxic applications. I would therefore like to know the position of the Government regarding the introduction of an exemption from territorial economic contribution for wine growers engaged in a process of exiting chemistry. We still have one last finance bill before the end of the legislature to plan for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u11	First of all, I would like to associate myself with what you said about the events that took place this weekend, but also with the fall in temperatures that took place last night. This new climate event, experienced by many of our wine growers, arborists and cereal growers, reminds us of the extent to which climate changes have a significant impact on our agriculture. The arrival of such cold winds after the first shoots of flowers is obviously very bad for the crops, whatever the plants concerned. From a political point of view, you are wondering how tax support can be provided to those involved in this agro-ecological transition. I thank you for addressing this political issue, which highlights several elements. First, the agroecological transition is not sufficiently value-creating in relation to the prices paid by the consumer. This leads you to propose, as a parliamentarian, to support the sector by creating tax exemption schemes to create the necessary value at the cost of transitions. We are at the heart of the matter. You've always heard me say, agroecological transitions will be all the faster as they will create value for the benefit of our farmers, our wine growers, our farmers, our tree growers. It is essential: we must never lose sight of it. Since measures are being taken to create value on the market but these have not yet produced effects at the time when the farmer's profit and loss account is being drawn up, we must, in the meantime, use tax mechanisms. You are proposing an exemption from the TEC. I did the same reasoning as you did in the last PLF: I did not propose the exemption from the CET, but the creation of a high-value environmental tax credit – HVE – which this House voted for and which responds to a request made for many years, especially by wine growers. This tax credit came into effect on January 1, 2021. We will be paying attention to its implementation and will take stock at the end of this year, when preparing the new PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u12	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor to put her question, No. 1374, on the regional plan for waste prevention and management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u13	My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition, relates to the distribution of the landfill of waste in Île-de-France. Since November 2019, the new regional waste prevention and management plan provides that the distribution of inert waste landfills must be balanced in the region. However, the Seine-et-Marne has nine of the nineteen sites in the region and this number will increase with the new facilities projects. While 65% of the inert waste from the region's building is buried in the Seine-et-Marne, 80% of those expected under the Grand Paris Express will also be buried in the Seine-et-Marne. To this alarming situation is added the increase of the deposits of wild waste in Seine-et-Marne, since more than 600 points were recorded in 2019. These two phenomena cause many negative consequences for the environment, health and safety. What are the means planned to better support communities in their waste management and to ensure the proper implementation of the new regional plan, with a fairer distribution of the management of inert waste in the territory of francilian?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u14	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u15	As I cannot be present, the Minister of Ecological Transition has instructed me to answer you. The regional waste prevention and management plan, approved in November 2019, provides for a better balance in the distribution of waste storage facilities between the different departments. Above all, it is important to improve the recovery of waste, particularly from construction sites. A number of important actions are being launched, which join some of the lines proposed in the Ile-de-France regional plan. The decree to ensure better traceability of waste and excavated land was issued on 27 March. It will provide more guarantees to contractors who agree to develop these excavated lands on their construction sites. In addition, in accordance with the law of 10 February 2020 on the fight against waste and the circular economy, or anti-spousal law, work is under way to prepare the extended liability sector of the producer – or the REP sector – of building construction products and materials, in connection with the ADEME – Environmental Transition Agency – and all professionals in the sector. In particular, they aim to deploy new waste collection sites from the construction sector in order to encourage their recycling or re-use. These new waste recovery schemes will also help to combat the scourge of wild landfills. In this regard, the Anti-Gaspage Act has considerably improved the legal tools available to mayors. These include the possibility of designating the president of the grouping of communities or the public institution of communal cooperation as the only competent authority – instead of the mayor – for the application of the administrative waste police for the whole of the territory concerned. The Act has also strengthened the control capacity of communities by expanding the ability to detect waste offences to other public officials. Finally, the mayor now has the possibility of imposing an administrative fine of 15000 euros and a flat-rate fine of 1500 euros, which gives him a certain deterrent and coercive power. It is by mobilising all the actors, be they construction professionals, industrialists or local authorities, that we will be able to reduce the extensions of inert waste storage facilities and eradicate wild waste dumps. You can count on the Government's support in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u16	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to put his question, No. 1387, on the strategy to combat soil artificialisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u17	My question is for the Minister of Ecological Transition. I would like to return to the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, and in particular to its section 48, which provides for limiting the artificialisation of soils. While it is true that our country has taken time to realize that the consumption of space requires collective and responsible reflection in order to limit its excesses, the probable adoption of this article does not fail to cause concern to local authorities. They are already faced with severe restrictions on urban sprawl when drawing up their LRP – local urban planning plan – or their LPUI – local urban planning plan. They are sometimes deprived of any possibility of adding new constructions, even a modest garage on a plot already built. In this context, the objective of achieving an absence of any net artificialisation of the soil sounds for these communes as the end of any expansion, thus condemning them to agony. More new inhabitants, more youth, more children, more schools: this is what threatens rural communities and the rural world. A decree in the Council of State must lay down the conditions for the application of this article and establish a nomenclature of artificialized soils. However, local authorities whose LRPs are under review or are considering amending them are very legitimately concerned. While an increase in the number of inhabitants is expected in rural areas following the pandemic and the use of telework is becoming the daily life of many of our compatriots, are we going to stop this dynamic? What instructions will be given to the State services during the first phase of the implementation of the end-of-soil goal and regarding the ongoing or future changes of the PLU and PLUI so that they do not become a supreme sanction for mayors? What hope do you intend to give back to them, as well as to the rural world as a whole? And what assurances can the Government give to local authorities, at the time of their future, in order to involve them in the harmonious development of their territory and to prevent them from being a variable for adjusting the ambition to combat the artificialisation of the soil?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u18	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u19	You are questioning the minister of ecological transition who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. The climate and resilience bill sets an ambitious quantified goal: to achieve an absence of any net artificialization of soils in 2050. To this end, the text provides for an intermediate objective of dividing by two the rate of consumption of natural, agricultural and forestry areas over the ten years following the enactment of the law in relation to the previous ten years. With this bill, we are rethinking our patterns of urbanization. We want to recreate denser urban forms, giving our fellow citizens access to local services and shops and bringing more urbanity and social ties, while maintaining a quality of life and green spaces. As you mentioned, we must also encourage the development and conversion of areas for agriculture in the context of territorial food projects. The draft law thus provides for the gradual integration of this objective into the SRADDET – regional schemes for planning, sustainable development and equality of territories – and then into the territorial coherence schemes and the PLU and PLUI. The text also provides for account to be taken of the efforts already made in urban planning documents since the law ALUR – law of 24 March 2014 on access to housing and renovated urban planning – thanks to transitional measures. You have also rightly stressed the importance of rural communities in reviving the economy, particularly the construction sector. The recovery plan encourages and supports communities in the rehabilitation of land for housing and activities and in the renovation of vacant buildings, in particular by mobilising the EUR 300 million waste fund. Finally, you mentioned infrastructure, which has an impact on the consumption of space. With regard to projects of national or regional scope, it will of course have to be taken into account on a wide scale, that of a region, the perimeter of a SCOT – a territorial coherence scheme – or a PLUI, and therefore of each municipality. The manner in which the bill applies, which is based on the territorialization of the objective in the planning tools, is fully in line with this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u20	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u21	I hear your answer and we understand the need to control the artificialisation of the soil. However, as I said, this legitimate concern is a cause for concern. Everyone is obviously convinced of the need to control urban sprawl, which we are doing today better than in the past. As a provincial elected minister, however, you measure the difference between Limoges and Bellac or other villages in your electoral district. Rural politicians are wondering if new homes can be built on their territory. Every day, I talk to an elected official to whom a resident said he couldn't build. The rules resulting from the ALUR law are already strictly applied and are therefore likely to be strengthened, which poses a fundamental problem in our campaigns. That concern had emerged from the great debate and I would not like it to continue to be expressed. In the end, life in our villages is a game. When schools close, there are no children. And without new constructions, there will be no more young inhabitants to have. It is an infernal spiral that we are facing: we are still going to oppose rural and urban worlds, even though they need each other intimately to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u22	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to raise her question, No. 1388, on air quality in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u23	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Ecological Transition. As part of the pandemic, the High Council for Public Health recommends regular renewal of the air in school premises, with a new air supply that may need to be increased, and continuous measurement of carbon dioxide concentration using sensors to assess air quality. Beyond the epidemic context, children may be exposed in schools and reception areas to concentrations of pollutants measured in the air, sometimes higher than in other places of life, due to the density of space and often insufficient air renewal. This can have effects on health and well-being, ranging from mere discomfort to the onset or worsening of pathologies. The Act of 12 July 2010 on national commitment to the environment – Grenelle Act 2 – made it mandatory to monitor indoor air quality in establishments receiving sensitive audiences. By the decree of 17 August 2015, deadlines were set for the implementation of this monitoring: 1 January 2018 for kindergartens and elementary schools, 1 January 2020 for colleges and high schools and 1 January 2023 for other schools. The regulatory framework shall include an assessment of the means of aeration by carrying out, at the option of an accredited body, a campaign for the measurement of pollutants or a self-assessment of air quality by means of a practical guide, supplemented by an action plan. However, the latest data published on the INERIS website – the National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks – show that a minority of establishments have so far carried out this assessment. Communities do not always have the financial means to comply with this requirement. The buildings are often old and have windows whose openings have sometimes been restricted by security rules. However, the issue of indoor air quality is very relevant in the context of the pandemic we are going through. Indeed, in the face of the risk of transmission of the virus by aerosol in enclosed places where several people are gathered, the monitoring and control of the CO rate allow to calibrate the aeration of the interior spaces around the triptych "air, ventilate, breathe". Can you therefore tell us how the State follows up on the implementation of this obligation and how it could accompany local and regional authorities, particularly with regard to the installation of CO-rate sensors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u25	You are questioning the minister of ecological transition who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. As you said, many volatile pollutants are likely to be present in our environments. The average time spent in closed spaces, whether in the home, the workplace, the place of education or the means of transport, is 85% of the day, making this a public health concern. In order to improve air quality in enclosed spaces, it is recommended to open large windows in all rooms at least ten minutes a day, summer and winter, and during activities requiring solvent handling. With regard to housing, it is also important to have a ventilation system, in order to renew the air continuously, and to maintain it regularly. If followed, these recommendations are generally sufficient to ensure good indoor air quality. In the case of schools covered by the provisions of the Grenelle 2 Act, you indicate that a minority of schools have submitted their assessments to INERIS, but this does not mean that there are few schools that comply with the air quality monitoring regulations. Most of them chose to carry out an action plan on the basis of a self-assessment of indoor air quality on premises, whose current regulations do not require that the results be traced. After three years of application of this provision, 63483 measurement data have already been transmitted by 3609 establishments. Monitoring of indoor air quality in establishments receiving from the public is one of the actions that should be consolidated in the framework of the fourth national health-environment plan. Thus, the current monitoring system will evolve in favour of regular self-diagnosing and the implementation of indoor air quality measures at the key stages of a building's life, such as its construction, major renovations or the repair of the ventilation system. Assessment of ventilation and ventilation will remain mandatory. The new scheme will enter into force in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u26	The next speaker is Mr Luc Geismar, to put his question, No. 1363, concerning non-conforming speed retardants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u27	Mr Minister-in-Office, I would like to ask you about a scourge that pollutes French roads. These are non-compliant slowers that have been increasing disproportionately on our roads for several years, misleading our vehicles and vertebrae. I agree that the speed of motor vehicles must slow down in the city and in the vicinity of dangerous points. The installation of slow-down devices is often legitimate in that it responds to important issues such as improving safety or reducing pollution and noise. However, in order to achieve these laudable objectives, the rules relating to slowers are sometimes – or often – ignored, whether in terms of height, length or shape. This failure to comply with the standards creates risks for some road users, especially two-wheelers, who can easily get hurt with this type of non-compliant equipment. More generally, it is all vehicles that are affected by greater wear and tear or even deterioration. Failure to comply with standards can also cause pain, especially for bus drivers, who complain about it. And it creates an increased risk for vehicles carrying injured people in response. These retarders and other non-regulatory shaking devices are thus a source of danger for drivers, but also of noise to the residents. The situation should therefore be taken up in order to regularize for the safety of all. All road users must be able to claim safety, motorists and bikers in the same way as others. Minister Delegate, what actions are you going to take to combat this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u28	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u29	Mr President, you are asking me about the supervision of the various types of road retarders. First of all, with regard to donkey-backed or trapezoidal retarders, their geometric and technical characteristics, in particular their dimensions, are described in a French standard of May 1994 to which all such retarders must respond, since the 1994 decree required compliance every five years, that is, in 1999. The road manager, who would not have taken the necessary steps, is now fully responsible. In the case of cushion-type or platform-type retardants, these are carriageway elevation devices designed to moderate the speed of vehicles in agglomeration, in order to protect vulnerable users of motorized vehicles. They shall not be aggressive for the vehicle and its occupants when the driver complies with the permitted speed and shall not cause excessive noise. However, they are not subject to the above-mentioned 1994 standard or decree, but are the subject of a recommendation of the Centre for Studies on Networks, Transport, Urban Planning and Public Constructions – CERTU – updated in 2010, which is not of regulatory value. However, a lack of maintenance of these slow-downs, which leads to a risk to users, also entails the responsibility of the manager. However, in the face of the appeals of citizens and elected associations that you are echoing today, I have asked my services to consider the advisability of specific regulation and regulation of these devices. I want this to lead quickly to concrete measures, and I will keep you informed personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u30	Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u31	Thank you for your action and I hope that we will have the opportunity to see the effects of your measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u32	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No 1362, on the aeronautics and air transport sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u33	My question is to the Minister delegated to the Minister of Environmental Transition responsible for transportation and is about the critical situation in the aeronautics and air transportation sectors. For more than a year now, the coronavirus has hindered the free movement of aircraft in France, of course, but also throughout the entire planet. According to the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation and the International Air Transport Association, the recovery will be extremely slow, with air transport only expected to return to its 2019 level between 2023 and 2029. This air hole is the most important that the sector has ever experienced, far greater than the crisis caused by the attacks of 11 September 2001. It is a shock that puts the entire French aviation industry at risk, from contractors to subcontractors, endangering the know-how of this industry of excellence and its ability to bounce back and innovate, even though the continuity of technological progress has always been the heart of its success. Beyond this economic and social crisis, which will lead to failures and redundancies in our territories, the aviation sector and the aviation industry face the inevitable challenge of the ecological transition. If the support plan for the aviation sector announced last June, for more than EUR 15 billion in investment, loans and guarantees, is up to this economic and ecological challenge, why should we also tackle these sectors in front of us through the climate and resilience bill discussed this week in the House? The support plan aims to respond to the emergency by supporting firms in difficulty and protecting their employees; It plans to invest heavily in SMEs and midcaps to support the transformation of the sector and to design and produce tomorrow's devices in France. The climate and resilience bill provides for the prohibition of certain air routes, the restriction of airport expansion and the imposition of additional costs and constraints on airlines. Minister, aren't these objectives contradictory? Yes, we must act vigorously to green air traffic, which accounts for 3.9% of CO emissions in the transport sector, and therefore 1.6% of total emissions in France – although these rates are currently zero... Yes, the French and European aviation industry must pursue its objectives of decarbonizing global air traffic; But let us not forget that if the French aviation industry is the only one, along with that of the United States, to have all the capabilities to develop, produce and market civilian and military aircraft and helicopters, it raises the question of its own survival. My question will therefore be direct: what is your strategy to truly save the aviation and aviation sectors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u34	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u35	Mr. MP, you are asking me about the Government's strategy to support the aviation sector both in the face of the crisis and in the context of its necessary environmental transition. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Government and the majority consider the aviation and air sectors to be strategic sectors for France and that they do not wish to see this industry and its mode of transport declining or disappear. On the contrary, we plead – and, in particular, me, the first – for its decarbonation. I am convinced that it is through the transition of our industry and technological innovations that the sector will be able to make its necessary ecological transition. With the climate and resilience bill, we are not going to fight the air and aviation sectors; we organise the complementarity of modes and strengthen intermodality with the rail mode when it is relevant – this is the purpose of the measure to replace flights with good quality rail solutions, where they exist, for periods of less than two and thirty hours; We are launching a sustainable aviation fuel chain, a promise of high-value industrial jobs, everywhere in Hexagon, and even overseas; we are improving existing compensation programmes; Finally, we are defending an extraordinarily ambitious budget over the next two years, which will obviously require an extension to invent tomorrow's decarbonized aircraft. All of this involves not only working on aircraft as such – their aerodynamics, their components and their energy system – but also on air operations, in short, on the entire air ecosystem, which must, in its entirety, address the turn of the ecological transition. The state has always been a partner in what you have rightly described as an aeronautical flagship, and it will remain so. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the state has been at the rendezvous; it has accompanied each company and each airline, with measures under ordinary law and measures specific to the sector. A €15 billion plan was announced last June to combat the effects of the crisis, while embarking on the profound transformation that I mentioned. The sector can rely on the resources devoted to the research and development sectors and to the projects of the major groups, as well as on the €1.6 billion that will be mobilised over the next two years, as part of the France Relance plan, to develop carbon-free management as quickly as possible. The acts are there, Mr. Congressman. I know you are particularly involved with companies in your territory, and more generally in the Great West; I also know that it is together that we will succeed in achieving these desirable objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u36	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u37	Attention: the Citizens' Convention for the Climate was installed in October 2019, as it were in another century...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u38	Mr Alain Bruneel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1368, concerning the Somain Yard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u39	My question is about the triage of Somain, located in the Douaisis, about which you are not the prime minister to be questioned. While we have been asking for a minister's visit to the site for more than ten years, we have had letters, promises, beautiful statements, but never concrete acts. Promised for a national future, this yard had approximately 600 employees in 2006; They're just a handful now. Petitions, demonstrations, meetings in the various ministries: I have shared all the struggles of the unions, elected representatives of all sides and citizens to save and develop the site. I was received by your firm a few months ago, to present to him the plans to revitalize and the promises of assets of this triage. I have also met several times the 4F alliance, "Fret Ferriaire Français du Futur", which tells me that Somain is not a priority in the immediate future, despite interesting prospects. Located on a highly industrialized territory, with three car manufacturers, Somain is the latest yard in the North connected to the network. The Seine-Nord Canal offers great potential, as well as the proximity of the last freight car manufacturing company. I also add the possibility of making this yard a hydrogen refuelling point, since the territory is working on the subject. What we believe is missing is the political will of the Government to prioritize Somain. The goal today is not to repeat the story. Nor is it to agree on the national freight strategy, which was to be presented to Parliament soon. Today I expect concrete and local: at a time when our Assembly is debating the environmental issue without a word on freight, will Somain and its triage finally be considered a priority by the Government, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u40	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u41	Mr President, thank you for your question, which still obliges me to go back to the national rail freight strategy, with the aim of doubling its modal share. Not only is it low in France compared to the European average, but this European average is itself too low in relation to what it should be. Freight is therefore a priority for both the French Government and the European Union. Since last year, we have undertaken very structuring actions. In particular, the 2021 Finance Act provided EUR 170 million in support for rail freight, plus the freight-specific component of the recovery plan, with an investment programme of more than EUR 1 billion, which should be co-financed by Europe and local and regional authorities. This will allow for the creation of three new railway motorways, between Calais and Sète, Perpignan and Rungis, and on the western façade, between the northwest and Bayonne. In the longer term, the Government is committed to a strategy aimed at developing rail freight: it is the national strategy that will be presented to Parliament by the summer, in the form of a comprehensive programme of action based on all possible development levers. More specifically concerning the Somain station, about which I know you particularly mobilized, this site provides two essential functions: on the one hand, the sorting of wagons and the formation of trains for transport by single wagon; on the other hand, machine and driver relay operations, in the context of traffic management. Isolated car services have been identified as a critical and strategic issue for the attractiveness of rail freight. The EUR 170 million I mentioned will help to secure the operating subsidy, a message that I relayed to the European Council last week, since the other European operators are facing the same problem. As far as infrastructure is concerned, an action plan for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the service tracks of the Somain site necessary for train operations has already been drawn up for the period 2018-2022. As a result, investments of €1.7 million have already been made by SNCF Réseau between 2018 and 2020, and will continue in the coming years, with the contribution of the State, as part of the recovery plan. The national strategy for rail freight will fully integrate these challenges and the development potential of this station identified by the profession, in particular by the 4F alliance, which federates rail freight operators. So be assured, honourable Member, that the Government will be at the rendezvous of the history of rail freight and at your side for the future of the Somain railway station.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u42	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u43	Mr Minister, I have heard you well and I may have exaggerated my remarks, but this speech, I have heard for more than ten years, without ever seeing the concrete materialization of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u44	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u45	Far from the idea of questioning your word, but this yard suffers. His last client is the Roquette company and, if the company decides to leave the yard, the station will die. The isolated wagon was the strength of the Somain railway station, and I invite you officially, Minister, to come to Somain, to discuss it with the elected officials and railway unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u46	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to raise her question, No. 1375, concerning the living conditions of migrants on the north coast.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u47	Madam Minister Delegate to the Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you about the living conditions of migrants on the north coast. I would like to associate my colleagues Bénédicte Pételle and Jacqueline Maquet with my question. Last February, I went to Calais and Grande-Synthe to better understand the issue. People settled along the coast in the hope of passing across the English Channel in a week, in a month, in a year. I had already gone to Calais and I knew the difficult living conditions: quasi-daily evacuations, the policy put in place to avoid what is called the fixation points. But the discovery of living conditions in Grande-Synthe surprised me, not to say shocked. Far from my idea of thinking that people in Calais live in decent conditions; I have noted, however, that there is access to a minimum of services deployed by the State. In Grande-Synthe, on the other hand, no access to sanitary facilities or showers is possible. The Puythouck camp has only one access point to drinking water, which was frozen during my visit. Similarly, no association was at that time mandated by the State to distribute meals, with humanitarian associations in front of them alone, and with the means of the board, responding to the request. Finally, if the problems of accommodation are similar in both territories, namely the refusal of those present to reach a reception centre far from the coast, I was able to note the existence of emergency accommodation within the framework of the great cold plan in Calais. This system, designed to provide emergency protection to those who wish to do so during particularly harsh weather periods, ensures that beneficiaries are located close to the English Channel. Beyond the urgency, it would seem to me interesting to deploy accommodation along the coast through small structures with scattered localization: only this solution would allow a dignified reception to be combined with the control of the situation. In view of these elements, I call on the State to deploy adequate hygiene and food services on the north coast, and in Grande-Synthe in particular. More generally, the deployment of dispersed accommodation adapted to the needs of people on the coast is necessary to break the current logics leading to the development of networks of smugglers. Madam Deputy Minister, can you tell me what actions will be taken to respond as quickly as possible to the vital needs of the population in these camps?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u48	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u49	Mrs Dupont, I welcome your long-standing commitment on this difficult subject. In the Pas-de-Calais region, the State has in recent years set up a humanitarian scheme aimed at the migrant population in order to give them access to water, sanitation and essential care. This includes a capacity of 315 places for asylum seekers, plus 340 places created during the health crisis and emergency accommodation facilities that benefited 1158 vulnerable people in 2020. On the occasion of his visit to Calais in January 2018, the President of the Republic wanted to strengthen the scheme by setting up a food aid provision, i.e. nearly 1800 meals distributed daily. In 2021, the State will allocate €14.7 million to humanitarian support, or €60 million since 2017. In the North, the care system has been improved since last year: between January 2020 and February 2021, the total number of shelter spaces in the department was increased from 555 to 976. The result of this offensive action is that accommodation capacity has never been saturated and, since 1 January 2021, 2736 people present at Grande-Synthe have been offered shelter. As far as health care is concerned, a permanent medical device is provided through civil protection, which complements social actors such as the Red Cross or Médecins du monde, whose action I welcome, to ensure the permanent access to Dunkirk's care by managing transport from Grande-Synthe. Food aid has so far been based on local associations, with the support of the communal centre for social action, while the State has taken over all the arrangements, but the local consensus that has prevailed so far is no longer in place. That is why I have asked the Prefect of the North to put in place an offer of food aid for migrants present in Grande-Synthe, which will be financed by the State under the same conditions as in Calais. I confirm, however, that the orientation chosen is not to create a new place of accommodation on the coast, and more specifically in Grande-Synthe. Asylum-seekers are intended to be accompanied and referred to reception and examination centres. The new national scheme for the reception of asylum-seekers and refugees, which had been applied since the beginning of the year, provided that they could be subject to guidance throughout the national territory, in the best conditions of accompaniment and humanity which were the honour of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u50	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u51	Thank you for the answers. I would like to insist, because the lack of nearby accommodation, and therefore the existence of camps, reinforces the traffic. On the contrary, I think it is necessary to strengthen the marauds and the presence on the ground. The misinformation of migrants is very important and the OFII – the French Office for Integration and Immigration – has a role to play. There is scope to strengthen State intervention in the territory in order to strengthen the dignity of the reception of these people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u52	Mrs Cécile Delpirou spoke of her question, No. 1377, concerning social service assistants in national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u53	I recently had the opportunity to meet with social workers from my constituency in the National Education Service. They took the opportunity of the release of Camille Kouchner's book and the debate that society took on the issue of incest to tell me about their mission in the service of child protection. On a daily basis, they are very regularly confronted with domestic violence of all kinds, in a preventive role, but also for reports that allow children to be safe. However, in my department of the Somme, there are only twenty-four social workers, who divide their presence and their interventions among eighty schools. Between September 2020 and February 2021, they reported 209 reports of concern and 182 reports to the prosecutor, as in the previous school year as a whole. In addition, this function does not exist in primary education, where teachers in my department have to settle for three technical advisers who can be reached by telephone in case of difficulty. While it is of course important for teachers to be sensitized and trained to detect signs and to know the relevant interlocutors, it is equally essential that professionals whose core role is to be able to intervene directly in primary schools. Is the Secretary of State for Priority Education considering increasing the number of social workers in secondary education, who are at the forefront of the fight against domestic violence? Does the Government intend to extend this function to primary schools to prevent and identify situations of danger to children from an early age? Finally, can you provide guarantees to the profession that it will remain in national education, particularly with regard to future decentralization projects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u54	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u55	Thank you for this question, which gives me the opportunity to welcome the commitment of social workers, who were particularly mobilized during the health crisis on the painful subject of domestic violence. They have increased their energy to help prevent early school leaving and protect children, but also to improve the school climate, combat school harassment and, more generally, build an increasingly inclusive school. The Government intends to recognize the commitment of these social workers. The interdepartmental body of social service assistants has been classified, since 1 February 2019, in category A of the public service. He had a re-evaluation of the index point of about 30 to 40 points depending on the steps. Since the same date, the interdepartmental body of technical advisers has also benefited from additional index points and career development over two grades. In addition, within the framework of the Grenelle de l'Éducation and the ministerial social agenda, a specific working group was devoted to the social sector. For example, the compensation scheme related to the duties, hardships, expertise and professional commitment of these personnel was upgraded in 2020. For example, the minimum annual allowance has been increased for social workers classified in the second group of functions from EUR 3000 to EUR 5300. Instructions have been given to the deconcentrated services of national education to ensure an indemnitarian convergence between the academies of the same region and to allocate an annual compensation supplement in order to recognise the commitment of these professionals during the health crisis, which is abounded by the State to the tune of €5.1 million. Finally, the working group on the social sector meets again to discuss the concerns of the profession and academies, such as the evolution of missions and methods of intervention at the service of the student, but also of the teachers. We are aware of this commitment, we are accompanying and guiding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u56	Mrs Cécile Delpirou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u57	Thank you for that answer. I would like to stress two points: on the one hand, the desire of these personnel to continue working within the Ministry of National Education; on the other hand, the very important interest in extending the network of secondary education to primary education to prevent domestic violence and to intervene from an early age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u58	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor to put his question, No. 1380, concerning attacks on teachers in the Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u59	Indignation, revolt, shock: the words are not strong enough as a result of the aggression of an unheard-of violence by a teacher, who was also director of the Carnot school in Nogent-sur-Oise, and of ATSEM – the specialized territorial agent of kindergartens – who accompanied her on 18 March last by a mother and her 19-year-old daughter following a discussion that would have gone wrong. These unacceptable facts, which do not have their place in the sanctuary of knowledge and learning that is the school of the Republic, are unfortunately not an isolated case: intimidation, assault and injury have become daily in some schools labeled REP – priority education networks – and REP + – reinforced priority education networks –, but not only. The deterioration of the conditions for the exercise of the teaching activity is a reality. We always remember the tragedy that marked the entire country on October 16, the odious assassination of Samuel Paty. The Institutional Facts app launched in 2015 wants to encourage the end of a certain mutism. In addition, the administration is supposed to protect its agents from attacks on them in the performance of their duties, as it is obliged to do. Measures to empower families have also been taken. But will that be enough? School is a reflection of our society, and the problem is certainly deeper. It therefore calls for a comprehensive response. On the one hand, a paradigm shift: a criminal response that is commensurate with the gravity of the facts is needed, which means that the policy of apology that leads to a guilty complacency towards the perpetrators is no longer practiced. On the other hand, despite the arrangements and despite the work done by the constituency teams, the hierarchy of national education is often absent, preferring, it seems, to hide the dust under the carpet invoking the well-known formula: "Most importantly, no waves! " Today, languages are untied. This movement must be encouraged. So, Madam Secretary of State, are you going to give instructions in this direction and to change the government's position towards more firmness to finally have a real school of trust?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u60	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u61	Obviously, like you, I share, we share, and the institution in its entirety shares your indignation. I will answer you precisely and chronologically on what has been done since this unqualified act. I would like to point out, as you yourself have said, that these events are not only taking place in the priority education networks, REP or REP+, because I would not like these networks to be stigmatized. Unfortunately, it is a general phenomenon that takes place all over the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u63	The institution reacted. But, beyond the response of the institution, we must work more with families to empower them: this is what we do with educational cities, from 0 to 25 years old, to work at the root. You recalled the facts, so I'm not going to go back to it; I will simply describe, and precisely, how the institution has mobilized itself. As Jean-Michel Blanquer quite often says, we do not want to put the dust under the carpet, and I believe that we have shown this in recent years. The Amiens Academy was very responsive to the attack. As early as 18 March afternoon, the national education inspector was at the bedside of the victims to accompany their hospital care. The facts were immediately reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of article 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. At the same time, the institution, through the voice of the Rector, strongly condemned the aggression. On 19 March, the National Education Inspector visited the school again, this time accompanied by a mobile security team, in order to create a psychological cell. The Director was immediately replaced and the National Education Inspector accompanied her during her complaint and examination by the medical and judicial unit of Creil. The Rectorate of Amiens also filed a complaint. Finally, on March 22, the Rector granted functional protection to the Director. As you said, this case illustrates the violence that staff are facing more and more frequently and that affects younger and younger students. As shown in the case of Nogent-sur-Oise, the administration is no longer limited to providing functional protection to agents. Very concrete psychological follow-up measures are taken and victims are accompanied in their judicial proceedings; the institution publicly displays its support for teachers. Finally, a protocol to accompany teachers affected by abusive complaints has been in place since 2019. In particular, it provides advice and good practices to deal with these situations – some have been applied in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u64	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u65	I would like to reiterate my respect to the inspector of the national education concerned, who has done an exceptional job of accompanying the director. I thank her and greet her publicly. Madam Secretary of State, I went to the staff who demonstrated as a result of these events. I was able to measure their exasperation and, above all, the fears that some people have of going to their institutions and continuing to pursue a profession that they have chosen primarily out of passion. I ask you to pay special attention to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u66	Mr Frédéric Reiss, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1384, concerning the objective of bilingualism and Franco-German partnerships in the field of education and vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u67	The achievement of the objectives of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle is often hampered by inappropriate national regulations. Here are two examples. The decree of 3 April 2020 which makes English language certification compulsory for students in higher education runs counter to the efforts made in Alsace to promote the mastery of German, which is a real asset for finding work in the upper Rhine employment pool. Funded so far by the Regional Council, the complementary German modules provided in the CFAs – training centres for apprentices – are at risk, to the detriment of the employability of our young people in Germany and in German companies located in France. Second, the law on freedom to choose one's professional future transfers the steering of learning from the regions to the professional branches. It thus calls into question the cross-border learning that we have managed to develop with the French and German territorial authorities and consular partners. 220 contracts are under way and only about 10 new contracts have been signed for the academic CFA during the current year. It's a spectacular regression. The channels offered by the consular CFAs have also collapsed. In order to unblock the situation, the issues of funding and legal responsibility must be addressed. At the time of the rise of the CEA, the European Community of Alsace, the powers of the communities need to be clarified in order to ensure once again the promotion of this mechanism. Madam Secretary of State, by continuing these two essential training opportunities for the employability of young people, you would respond to a real demand from families and businesses and allow young people to open up to Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u68	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u69	The Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports of course supports local and regional authorities in achieving the objectives set out in Article 15 of the Treaty of Aachen. Jean-Michel Blanquer therefore announced on 25 January, at the eighth meeting between the education ministers of the Länder and the rectors of the academy, the creation of a second Franco-German high school in Strasbourg from the beginning of the beginning of 2021. This project will be conducted in close partnership with local and regional authorities – the Greater East region, the European Community of Alsace, the Eurométropole of Strasbourg and the City Hall of Strasbourg. The Ministry is also following with particular attention the project to develop a resource centre from the INSPÉ – Institut national supérieur du professat et de l'éducation – in Colmar. Even though its creation was delayed by the health crisis, it is not postponed. COPIL – the steering committee – is in the process of being set up. A platform for pooling the many resources planned to promote the development of bilingualism in Alsace within the framework of the plurilingual policy carried out throughout the academic region of the Great East is also being developed. The Ministry also supports partnerships between the INSPÉ of Strasbourg, Reims, the Nancy-Metz Academy and their German counterparts in favour of the internationalization of the training of our future teachers. The meeting on 25 January was an opportunity to recall the increase of more than 80% in Erasmus+'s credits. The Minister also stressed his support for the development of the partnerships, which you mentioned, between French trades and qualifications campuses and German vocational schools, in order to "go towards sharing technology, towards ambitious projects that are linked with the means of the European Union, to make young people want. It was agreed to create more than 20 partnerships, particularly around climate issues and new digital professions, with the aim of developing an ambitious offer that would attract young people and increase their employability. Finally, on this occasion, as agreed, the Minister gave mandate to the Franco-German committees of competent experts to develop strategies to increase the number of learners of the partner's language and the level reached by pupils, as well as to create Franco-German tools of excellence for education and vocational training, in accordance with Article 10 of the Treaty of Aachen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u70	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these points of answer. Of course, we welcome the opening of a second Franco-German high school, which is in line with the wishes of the families. However, do not forget the question of complementary German modules and their financing. The requirement for certification in English prejudices the practice of German, which is absolutely necessary, particularly in the CFA and CFAI – the training centre for industrial apprentices – local, important for the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u72	Mr Bruno Duvergé, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1364, concerning the extension of the system of educational centres to areas of rural revitalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u73	On May 2, 2019, Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer and Julien Denormandie, then Minister for City and Housing, launched the Education Cities project. Rather than adding an additional mechanism to existing ones, it is a matter of better organizing and strengthening them by bringing together all the educational actors in the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – state services, communities, associations and inhabitants. By bringing together all actors in the academic and non-formal fields in the territories most in need and by concentrating public resources, the Government intends to promote educational continuity and strengthen the role of the school. Some 80 urban territories benefited from the €34 million allocated to this programme. However, this system of educational success only concerns the priority areas of the city's policy. However, some colleagues and I would like it to be adapted to the rural revitalization zones – ZRR – created at the same time as urban regeneration zones in territories that have also been forgotten by the Republic. In their beautiful book LesInvisiblesdelaRepublic, Salomé Berlioux and Erkki Maillard note that the 60 per cent of young people who do not live in large cities are more affected by inequality, especially education. I quote Mrs Berlioux: "This is the example of this very bright high school girl, pushed by her teachers towards medical studies and who opts for a school of nurses on the pretext that medicine is not for her. How can an ambitious professional choice be allowed when it involves moving away? When there's no pattern of identification around you? ... Some trades seem to be inaccessible to those who are geographically distant from them. Being young is complicated everywhere. Choosing a good orientation is a puzzle. But this is even more true when the horizon of choices is narrowed by the geographical and cultural environment. » Like these authors, I hope that the State's measures in favour of priority neighbourhoods can be adapted to rural areas and, like them, I hope that an ecosystem will be created in our territories with local elected representatives, associations, national education, foundations and businesses. Madam Secretary of State, how do you intend to decline the system of educational cities at the ZRRs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u74	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u75	Thank you for your question, which allows me to complete your comments on the educational cities and to abound in your sense with regard to rural areas. There are now 126 educational cities, with 46 new ones added to the 80 existing ones since the interdepartmental city committee of 29 January. Our goal is to go even further, with 200 educational cities by 2022. As you said, these cities aim to accompany the students permanently and throughout their journey – to school, on the way to school, out of school. The spectrum ranges from 0 to 25 years, from early childhood care to vocational integration. The aim is to create educational alliances in the territories, to bring together all the actors around the table – the principal of the college, the state, the elected representatives, associations of sport, culture, health and social, as well as the actors of the economic world – to accompany the students well. The educational cities played a key role last year during the first confinement, as they identified the fragility of some families and, thanks to a significant wealth of government, helped to quickly address the digital divide in these territories. Building on these experiences, Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer and I decided, after a very careful reading of Salomé Berlioux's report on the orientation and equal opportunities in France in rural areas and small towns, to duplicate this model for rural areas. Of course, the situation is not the same. The educational cities are, as you said, located in a very urban environment, that of the QPV – priority districts of the city's politics. The rural world faces particular challenges related to sociology, geography, demography and mobility. Indeed, we find that the school ambition of the students is lower. The rate of transition to the upper level after the third and second classes and in higher education is low in the light of the situation of rural school – which is very good – and the success rate of rural pupils in the baccalaureate – which is very good. So we duplicate the model of educational cities: "rural educational territories" are kind of copy and paste them for the rural world. We have launched an experiment in three academies, Nancy-Metz, Normandy and Amiens, where we have identified twenty-five rural educational territories, based on very concrete elements – the arrangements already present locally, the student success rate, mobility, the educational, cultural and sports resources available – so that the school ambition of the students is strengthened throughout the territory. It is the compass of the ministry's action, and in particular of my secretariat of state: to combat all inequalities, whether social or territorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u76	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u77	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, that is excellent news. It would be great if one of these devices were created in Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u78	Well, that's it! I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u79	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor to put his question, No. 1392, on the injustice suffered by high school students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u80	The health crisis that our country has been experiencing for the past year has upset all fields of human activity. We have supported your choice to work towards opening schools, colleges and high schools because we have a duty to offer quality education to all young people. The foreseeable deterioration of the health situation in recent weeks has prompted you to make new decisions: courses are given at a distance this week and they will be suspended from next week and for three weeks. In the current health situation, you have chosen the continuous control for the baccalaureate for children attending a public high school or a private high school under contract. However, some young people are left on the roadside, i.e. high school students enrolled in the CNED – National Centre for Distance Learning – in a fully regulated class. The reasons for this particular status range from a disease that prevents so-called classical schooling to various incompatibilities. Education through the regulated CNED is the result of a dialogue between national education, its representatives and parents. These students are considered to be in school. This year, many children in this situation were surprised to receive an invitation to attend a face-to-face examination. The national union of second degree teachers sent you a letter on this subject to inform you of its incomprehension. In addition, many students studying by the regulated CNED received their course access codes only in November 2020. They have suffered a double penalty: they have had two months less than their comrades in public or private high schools under contract to prepare their bachelor's degree and they will have to pass the exam, receiving continuous control only for their specialty tests. This situation is not possible. There can be no difference between high school students for the same exam; The law is very clear about this. These young people struggle to learn and prepare for their entry into society despite often difficult living situations, they do not have to suffer from such unequal treatment. Are you considering going back to the information note of March 1st which confirms the choice to consider CNED students in regulated class as free candidates and do you intend to apply to these high school students the same modalities of examination of the baccalaureate as their classmates in public high schools?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u81	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u82	Thank you for your question, which first gives me the opportunity to greet all teachers and students at the edge of this somewhat special four-week period. The baccalaureate is a source of anxiety and stress for high school students, especially in this period of crisis. We wanted to strike a balance between the maintenance of the tests and the exceptional learning conditions associated with the current health context. We have therefore adapted the modalities of this year's baccalaureate: in the same health situation, the philosophy test will normally take place, as the great oral one. For students enrolled in a high school, the specialty tests will be replaced by continuous monitoring. For students enrolled in the CNED in a regulated class, i.e. prevented from attending school, the one-time evaluations of the common teachings provided for under continuous monitoring will be maintained in accordance with the regulations in force, but candidates will, in each discipline, have the choice between two subjects which will, exceptionally, for this session, only cover the terminal program. The grades in the school booklet will replace the final specialty exams, as for all school applicants. Students enrolled in the CNED regulated class will have only one joint assessment test per discipline over the entire program, instead of three for students enrolled in schools. The philosophy test will be well held this year. Students will have the choice between three essay topics instead of two, in addition to the subject of text explanation. All candidates will run for the full oral examination during the month of June. Candidates with a disability or a health condition, including those registered with the CNED, may benefit from accommodation, provided by the Education Code, to pass the tests. The application procedure was simplified from this session. Finally, you said that some students only had their online course access codes in November: we checked and, the minute the legal representatives send a complete registration file to CNED's administrative services, registration and access to the courses are immediate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u83	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u84	The families have told us of difficulties, relayed by the unions, for access codes: so there is probably something to control, even if I trust your administration. The health crisis certainly generates different functionings, but I ask you to take into account the situation of these pupils who are already in great difficulty because of their particular situation: they must have the same rights as others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u85	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to put his question, No. 1389, concerning the closure of classes in the Gard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u86	On 16 March, many Gardoises and Gardois discovered in pain the new school card for the new school year 2021. On the programme, the closure of forty-three classes in the department! Only in my commune of 11,500 souls, yet growing in population, Vauvert, three classes will be closed. Like all parents of students, I am divided between incomprehension, astonishment and anger. I wonder how you are going to explain to our fellow citizens rural territories this evaporation of classes, which inevitably leads to the saturation of those remaining. You will tell me that fifty-two classes are open elsewhere in the department and that twenty posts are created. All right. But your policy is to undress Paul to dress James and, more precisely, to strip, as always, rurality to favour the priority areas of city politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u87	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u88	However, I remember Emmanuel Macron's commitment to "guarantee everyone's success and excellence at school." This may be possible in neighbourhoods with split classes, but it is impossible in the overcrowded classes of educational deserts that you create. Madam Secretary of State, it is not by abolishing classes that we will fight against the general decline in school level, the drop-out of students – which has increased as a result of the health crisis – and the resurgence of violence in schools. I obviously share the concern of the inhabitants of Vauvert, the local elected representatives of the Gard department, the school staff, the students and their parents, and I oppose the unjustified closure of classes, both in my own country and in all rural areas. There is no reason to see people in my department feel like second-class citizens, who are tired of seeing two Frances, that of the metropolises and suburbs that you cherish so much and that benefit from globalization and all your policies, such as the analysis perfectly by the geographer Christophe Guilluy, and that, peripheral, of the forgotten and the great losers to whom we remove everything, from post offices to police stations and from administrative centres to schools. Madam Secretary of State, my question is simple: will you, yes or no, delete all these classes? How do you justify it? How do you explain that local elected officials, mayors, parliamentarians and departmental councillors, of whom I am, have not been consulted? More generally, when will you stop discriminating peripheral France in favour of the priority areas of city politics?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u89	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u90	I cannot let you say that there are two Frances that we would treat differently. You were there earlier and you therefore heard me reply to Mr Duvergé on the deployment of the programme of rural educational territories; You have heard me salute the quality of rural schools. You have quoted the President of the Republic, so you have heard his commitment not to close any schools in the communes of less than 5000 inhabitants. During the last school year, no classes were closed in these communes. It is therefore scandalous that you accuse us of working for the development of two distinct Frances and of not making mention of ruralness. You also said that there were more and more drop-outs, but I register falsely against this statement: last year, in the first confinement, the teachers did an extraordinary job. I once again greet them, who went to contact with the students in the neighbourhoods and rural areas to be as close to them as possible. The truth may be counter-intuitive, but there are fewer dropouts this year. When we say something in the Chamber, it is good to have made sure that it is accurate. You say that we want to close classes in the first degree and that we refuse to fight evil. On the contrary, we have put all the means on the first level and we fully assume it. We have created an additional 11900 posts since 2017, while the demographic decline is constant: there have been about 150,000 fewer students since that date. However, we have not stopped putting resources everywhere. As you said, we split the classes: the CPs, the CE1s and, at the moment, the major kindergarten sections. In addition to duplication, we limit the size of the large section, CP and EC1 classes to twenty-four students. This policy allows, contrary to what you say, to consolidate the basic learnings of students – reading, writing, counting and respecting others. The five departments of the Montpellier Academy will experience, for the first time in twenty years, a decline in the number of first-degree students. Despite this, we have provided the Montpellier Academy with 140 additional jobs, 20 of them in the Gard department. Thus, at the next school year, the number of students per class in the department will improve significantly to an average of 22 pupils. In addition, major section classes in priority education areas will be split in 74 per cent of your department's schools next year, compared with 5 per cent at the last school year. As you can see, the Government is fully committed to creating learning conditions in your department, as in all others, that are conducive to the success of all students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u91	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No. 1366, on student distress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u92	In the face of the health crisis, millions of students denounce the existence of a generation, theirs, sacrificed. Assigned to residence, often cloistered away from home, their precariousness continues to grow and reaches a critical threshold. According to the Observatoire national de la vie étudiant, one third of people between the ages of 18 and 25 suffer from depressive disorders and confide in suicidal thoughts, which unfortunately translate into acts by waves of suicides that cannot be ignored. France has one psychologist for 30,000 students, 25 times less than international recommendations. And the online support platform will not change anything: it even shows a certain lag with reality. Above all, university services do not have monitoring structures to respond to the problem. This psychological support does not do everything and does not feed, in particular. Within a year, emergency aid to students doubled compared to 2019, but the health crisis only magnified an organized disaster: well before the crisis, one in five students was already below the poverty line. On October 13, 2017, I met with the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation to alert her to student insecurity: she had told me that budgets were on the rise and that that would be enough. In view of this fact, which I hope we all share, why do we insist on refusing to extend the RSA – active solidarity income – to young people between the ages of 18 and 25? We have repeatedly called, like many parliamentary groups, for this emergency measure, which is supported by two out of three French. Why was no requisition of premises envisaged to relieve the amphitheatres and reopen the faculties? Why not recruit school doctors and improve their skills when one knows that one third of the posts are vacant in national education? In September 2020, the Government announced €6.5 billion for higher education: why not release credits to increase grants and LPAs – personalized housing grants? This is a request from students and their organizations: what do you answer them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u93	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u94	First of all, I would like to apologize to Mrs Frédérique Vidal, who cannot be present this morning; I'll answer for him. You're asking us about student insecurity and psychological support for young people. No, MP, it cannot be said that the Government has waited for this phenomenon to become the front page of the media to deal with it: as early as March 2020, registration fees and rents in university cities have been frozen and they will be frozen again for the beginning of September 2021; the amount of the grants has been revalued; the scholarships continued to be paid at the start of the year for those who had to shift their internships by a few months; exceptional aid from EUR 150 to EUR 200 was paid, in particular in the event of loss of employment; we have also introduced the one-euro university restaurant ticket, now accessible to all students, fellows, non-students and internationals; nearly 10,000 doctoral contracts have been extended and funded in 2020 or will be in 2021; More than 5 million meals were served at 500 outlets; CROUS emergency aid funds – regional centres for academic and academic works – have been doubled to provide specific aid of up to EUR 500; We have created nearly 22,000 student jobs to meet the loss of small jobs. The Government is also fighting menstrual precariousness, with the installation of 1500 distributors of free periodic protections. The resumption of face-to-face courses one day a week since February is also a decisive step in the fight against isolation; Thanks to this gradual restart, we have been able to stabilize a robust health protocol, which, despite the epidemic recovery, keeps universities open and provides opportunities for young people. Thanks to these protocols, the students were able to pass their first semester exams without a massive drop-out or a drop in the general level; I would like to congratulate them. The Government has also been strengthening the psychological support capacity since 10 March, with the Santepsy.etudent.gouv.fr platform, which lists nearly 1300 volunteer psychologists; 80 positions have been created in the SSUs – university health services – to build capacity for care and 60 social services assistants are planned in the CROUS. Finally, with regard to the climate, last week the Minister renewed the working group chaired by Jean Jouzel, which has already made major progress in introducing the ecological transition and sustainable development into the education code. All these provisions were reinforced here last week when the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects was reviewed. Work continues with students and all actors; We see it as an enthusiasm, a mobilization and a commitment. You see, MP, we listen to the students and we act tirelessly to accompany their present and prepare their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u95	I thank Messrs. Corbière and Lecoq, as well as the Members who will speak after them, for changing their schedule, since we have had to face defections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u96	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 1367, on the transfer of customs powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u97	Historical field missions by customs officers are about to be transferred to the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – through dematerialised procedures. This would include the recovery of the domestic tax on consumption – ICT –, the domestic tax on energy products – ICTPE – and the annual duty on francisation and navigation – DAFN – which would no longer be carried out by customs officers. It should be noted that the ICTPE alone provides the State budget annually with a revenue of around €40 billion, after an increase of 63% in three years. At present, unless otherwise indicated, the collection of these taxes is to the satisfaction of the general public. Customs officers carry out a healthy physical control of the products taxed from the various import gates of the country and provide an appreciated advisory role to the companies concerned. In addition, there is a guarantee of security and fairness, as customs officers' sagacity and know-how in this complex area is well known. I am therefore astonished at the Government's willingness to take them out of power for the benefit of public finance officers. The latter will have to acquire these specialized skills, while carrying out evaluation and control operations from their office and computer, located kilometres, if not hundreds of kilometres, from the ports of entry of the taxed goods. It is therefore to be feared that the physical control carried out on the ground will be replaced by self-control of the undertakings, hence an increased risk of error and fraud, but also an accentuation of the health risk: no dematerialised voucher can demonstrate the quality of a product and its correct conformity with the standards required before consumption. Clearly, this reform poses a risk to the State; But it also makes one run to the consumer. At the moment, I have no knowledge of the mechanisms and means that will be deployed to ensure the same level of guarantee and protection as that provided by customs officials. Even so, why take a risk, while obviously everything works properly in this sensitive sector? I fear that this reform will only compensate for the creation of posts in customs because of Brexit, while at the same time compensating for the effects of the reform in the Directorate-General for Public Finance; But at what cost? If you share these concerns, expressed in particular by all the trade union organizations of customs officers, I thank you, Minister Delegate, for announcing the withdrawal of this reform. If not, I would like to thank you for reassuring us and reassure the French, simply by explaining how, and with what means, tax officers will be able to carry out the assessment, monitoring and advisory tasks currently assigned to their customs colleagues, in the field and nearby.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u98	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u99	The Government has decided to establish a joint revenue collection portal for tax, customs and social administrations. This major reform pursues an objective of general interest, shared by all public administrations: simplification and improvement of the user's journey. In particular, it is reflected in the transfer to the Directorate-General for Public Finance of several parts of the tax system, now managed by other administrations, including customs. Mr President, you are expressing your concern about the impact of this reform on the future of the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties – DGDDI – pointing out that the Directorate-General is carrying out its tax duties in a fully satisfactory manner. This reform is not based on the assumption that a particular administration would be more competent to recover the tax; It aims to unify the user's journey, to offer him a single interlocutor and in so doing to create synergies for the benefit of companies, the administration and the affectors, in particular the local authorities. From the point of view of customs, our wish is to make this reform an opportunity to strengthen the core of customs missions, i.e. the control and supervision of goods. The health crisis and Brexit have recently demonstrated that protecting our borders, whether physical, digital or maritime, is a top priority. Furthermore, please be assured, Mr President, that customs will retain tax missions in its own right or in partnership with DGFIP, in particular with regard to combating VAT fraud or indirect contributions. In particular, the full involvement of customs officers in controlling the tax base at borders will be a key element in the success of the project. I remind you that some transfers have already been completed. With regard to taxes on non-alcoholic beverages, as of 1 January 2019, the comparison of returns does not lead to a decrease in tax revenues. You also highlight the social risks associated with these transfers. These various reforms have already been the subject of regular meetings with representatives of the staff of the two Directorates-General on trades. The organization of transfers, and in particular of human resources aspects, is the subject of the greatest attention and is discussed in the context of the social dialogue. As such, it should be stressed that the retention of officers in their geographical area, if they so wish, is a priority. DGFIP is thus fully mobilised to allow the reception of restructured DGDDI staff; concrete guarantees have been provided on these points.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u100	Mr Emmanuel Maquet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1379, on the tax on heat pumps and heat pumps.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u101	Coming from an industrial territory, the Somme, I asked Minister Agnès Pannier-Runacher in the Chamber about the use of the "made in France" in an area very important for my constituency: glass. I would like to draw your attention again, this time to other innovative companies also very numerous, but particularly penalized. The decree of 1 July 2018 has indeed had important fiscal consequences for the local economy by creating a tax on heat pumps and thermodynamic water heaters for the benefit of the technical centre of the aeral and thermal industries – CETIAT. This tax is particularly heavy and unfair for French manufacturers: only companies producing in France are subject to it, including on exported products, while foreign imports, mostly Asian, and distributors who market them are not subject to it. The CETIAT, which benefits from a contribution from French manufacturers through this tax, carries out technical studies for the benefit of actors from all over the world for heat pumps and thermodynamic water heaters. In short, French producers finance the development of their foreign competitors. What an aberration! Minister Delegate, in the face of this unfair and anticompetitive situation, when do you envisage the abolition of this parafiscal tax in order to restore fairness, therefore the competitiveness of French companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u102	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u103	Industrial technical centres – ITC – are institutions of general interest, founded on the initiative of professional organisations wishing to pool projects related to their sector of activity. The aim is to promote technological progress and its dissemination, especially to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises, which alone could not benefit from it, thereby improving their competitiveness. In order to carry out their mission of general interest, industrial technical centres benefit from assigned tax rates proportional to the turnover achieved in France. For CETIAT, the order of 1 July 2018 specifies the products covered by the base of these taxes. These taxes are essential to the financing of the missions of the industrial technical centres, missions that remain relevant, as demonstrated by the report of the General Inspection of Finance submitted in May 2019. In return for being subject to these taxes, French manufacturers benefit from the collective actions carried out by the centre, in particular in the field of research and development, as well as technological transfer, standardization and training. These collective actions do not benefit companies not subject to these taxes. The technical centre of the aeral and thermal industries also carries out collective actions for the benefit of French manufacturers, in order to respond to the energy and ecological transition challenges facing the profession. The removal of the tax that you are referring to, Mr President, is not envisaged at this stage, because it seems essential to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u104	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u105	Mr Minister-in-Office of the Council, I can hear your comments, which I agree with, except that this scheme also benefits foreign companies, which import massive quantities of equipment, in particular Asian ones. It is this problem that I wish to raise with my question, and that is why I would like to ask you: we must abolish this tax, or reserve the benefit only to French industrialists, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u106	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to put his question, No. 1369, on the trans-manche sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u107	The transmanche sector, thanks to its various connections with the ports that glaze the coast, makes work nearly 20,000 employees, from Hauts-de-France to Brittany and Normandy. Thanks to the tourist flows of 80% of British origin, it generates more than one billion euros of expenditure in our country. It was hit hard by the crisis of the coronavirus and the health measures it justified, as well as by Brexit. No recovery plan or Brexit compensation funds have been mobilised to support this sector, as it faces strong competition on freight from our northern neighbours, and in less than a year it will have to apply the biometric border measures of the new entry and exit system, the EES – Entry/Exit System – decided by Europe for its external borders. Port configurations make this application complex. To date, neither the companies nor the ports of the trans-ship traffic have been supported to prepare this important deadline. In addition to the Government's announcements on the reimbursement of social and wage contributions for aircrew on long-distance crossings – which is not yet effective and whose Dieppe-Newhaven line, carried out in the framework of a public service delegation (DSP), will not benefit – what major plan does the Government intend to deploy to enable the long-distance sector to recover, prepare the EES and preserve employment in all its ports? After the entry into force of Brexit, the first weeks of trans-manche traffic showed the shortcomings of the customs system, particularly in Dieppe, with negative consequences on the smoothness of customs clearance operations. They confirm the urgent need for a full customs office. Beyond the general questions that I have just asked, what commitment does the Government take to resolve the customs difficulties on the Transmanche port of Dieppe?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u108	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u109	The Government is fully aware of the difficult economic situation in the trans-manche chain. As announced by the Prime Minister last September, 30 million euros are being released to support ferry companies, equivalent to the wage contributions due for the year 2021. The State has ensured the establishment of the necessary infrastructure for the re-establishment of border controls. Such adjustments have led to a major first financial effort of almost €20 million to date. France has requested that the Brexit Special Adjustment Reserve contribute to their financing, with four-fifths of this fund to be disbursed by 2021. Beyond that, in partnership with the professional logistics organisations, we have embarked on a process of reconquest in the field of logistic performance, since, as you stress, France faces, in the field of freight, a strong competition from the neighbouring countries of the North. Several measures were announced in December 2020 as part of the first interdepartmental logistics committee. Finally, you are asking me about the customs difficulties in the port of Dieppe and about the installation of a customs office. Since the deployment of the so-called intelligent border system on 1 January 2021, at all nine entry and exit points of the trans-manche façade, including the port of Dieppe, no major difficulties have been identified. For example, of the 688 trucks that crossed the smart border at Dieppe in the last month, only 21% had to stop, with a reasonable stopping time. As with other sites, such as Ouistreham, the management of customs formalities through flows through the port of Dieppe is carried out by a deported office located in Rouen, an organization allowed by the advanced dematerialization of the almost complete customs clearance procedures and by the strengthening of the teams of the office of Rouen, in the perspective of Brexit. Certain formalities, which still require the visa of paper documents, are taken over by the customs surveillance services, which are present on the Dieppe site: they mainly concern the completion of migration formalities and measures to combat fraud. Therefore, in view of the situation, which we have been following closely since the beginning of the year, the interest in setting up a customs office in Dieppe is not proven. Finally, most goods disembarking in Dieppe are not intended to be released on the spot and are covered by a transit ticket. However, we will remain extremely vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u110	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u111	With the frankness that characterizes me, Minister Delegate, I cannot help but consider that this answer is theoretical, I would even say, from a certain technocratic, point of view. You do not answer the question of the mobilisation of the recovery plan and the Brexit compensation fund, in particular with a view to the implementation of the new EES system, which will be necessary in 2022 to control in a biometric way the entries and exits of physical nationals. I am not satisfied with your explanation of the customs office either. Working on the issue of transmanche over the last 20 years, I know that this sector has been carried out by the local authorities. You're not saying anything about taking over social security contributions for Dieppe's Transmanche DSP. Finally, the Customs offices in Rouen are not in a position to absorb cargo during the weekend: a port is not a simple administration and requires reactivity, operationality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u112	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, to put his question, No. 1378, concerning the Ségur de la santé and the medico-social personnel of the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u113	I would like to ask you, Madam Minister Delegate to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, about the situation of medical and social professionals in the private sector, who cannot receive the monthly premium of 183 euros set up by the Ségur de la Santé. Thus, in Occitanie, 55,000 professionals in private structures, nurses, specialized educators, psychologists or life assistants, would not see their salaries improved, even though their work is as essential for the French as that of employees in public structures. Such a difference poses, first of all, a problem of recognition of the work of these professionals, who are very involved in the health crisis. Private structures, which are already struggling to recruit, are also more handicapped by the wage differential created by such a measure. I can only commend the methods of the Ségur de la santé and the new advances that result, as it was important to support our health care staff, who are exemplary in their professionalism at all times. In both the public and private sectors, medical and social professionals are above all passionate, voluntary and indispensable women and men, all of whom are integral parts of our health care system. I can testify to this thanks to my various field visits, such as the recent visit to the Magnoac home nursing service, which is doing a remarkable job in my constituency, despite difficult working conditions. I cannot resolve that the workers of this not-for-profit organization are less supported than those of other structures. What measures could be put in place for these professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u114	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u115	I am fully aware of the problem that you raise, concerning the professionals in the home, with whom I speak every week, so that they take into account the health situation and to answer their questions. The Ségur is a massive investment plan, for hospital structures, for the medico-social, for the building, but also for the human resources, in order to recognise their activity and to restore the attractiveness of these professions of care, in the hospital as well as in the medical-social establishments. Last July's agreement introduced an index salary supplement of 183 euros net per month for staff in health facilities and EHPADs, whom they say they are satisfied: 1.5 million people have benefited from this increase, representing up to 10% increase for some professionals, including health workers. The agreement provided for a re-visitation clause for the medical and social institutions that you refer to and, to this end, a mission was entrusted to Michel Laforcade. The majority of trade union organizations, the Fédération hospitalière de France (FHF) and the Government have reached an agreement to upgrade all non-medical professionals in public health institutions and autonomous EHPADs in the civil service, i.e. 18,000 more beneficiaries. Thus, as of June 1st, these professionals will also benefit from this increase. The mission entrusted to Michel Laforcade concerns the professions of autonomy and aims to formulate, in the first half of 2021, global operational proposals for the upgrading of these professions. The national representation will soon be informed of the follow-up to be given to it. In the meantime, I thank you for your question and for your tribute to these staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u116	Mr Alain Ramadier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1385, concerning the merger of FIVA with ONIAM.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u117	My question concerns the victims of asbestos, who are at risk of their compensation scheme, FIVA, the Fund for the Compensation of Asbestos Victims, being merged with ONIAM, the National Office for the Compensation of Medical Accidents, Iatrogenic Conditions and Nosocomial Infections. Many associations supporting asbestos victims and their relatives have strongly expressed their rejection of such a merger. This is particularly the case of an important association of my department, the departmental association for the defense of asbestos victims of Seine-Saint-Denis – ADDEVA 93 – whose concern we can only share. FIVA was established on 23 December 2000 to provide prompt compensation to victims of asbestos, as well as their families. Recognized for its effectiveness, this scheme has made it possible to compensate more than 100,000 people. The ONIAM was created in 2002 by the so-called Kouchner Act, but its effectiveness seems quite relative, as denounced by the Court of Auditors in 2017. The merger of FIVA and ONIAM is very badly received, as it may lead to a deterioration in the conditions for the payment of compensation to victims of asbestos. I am sure, Madam Deputy Minister, that you are aware of the seriousness of this issue, which concerns people who have died for going to work. In Aulnay-sous-Bois, as in many other communes in France, asbestos has claimed victims and unfortunately will continue to do so. The CMMP asbestos grinding plant exposed thousands of people to asbestos dust. Many families are concerned about this. The minimum that the French nation owes to these victims is a dignified and functioning compensation system. I am not unaware of the need to simplify all French administrative procedures and to reduce their costs. However, this should not be done at the expense of victims of asbestos. My question will therefore be simple: will FIVA be merged with ONIAM? What are the conclusions of the Directorate-General for Public Finance on this subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u118	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u119	Thank you for your question – when you're from Pas-de-Calais, you cannot be insensitive to the question you're talking about. The Minister of Health and the Minister of Public Accounts entrusted a mission to IGAS, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, and IGF, the General Inspectorate of Finance, to examine the appropriateness and modalities of a potential rapprochement between FIVA and ONIAM. This mission should make it possible to assess the possibilities of pooling support functions, or even the relevance of closer rapprochement between the two institutions; the maintenance of special attention to the reparation of victims of asbestos; the framework of the flash mission; ensure, or even further improve, the quality of the treatment of compensation for victims of asbestos as well as medical accidents; define the most appropriate organization to ensure full implementation. From October 2020 to February 2021, the mission consulted widely with stakeholders; the conclusions are now under consideration. Similarities have already been found: the institutions share the same mission of full reparation for personal injury; the status of their contractual agents is the same; they share common premises and are governed by close legal and budgetary rules; they have similar funding structures, with funding provided mainly by social security and at the margin by State allocations, under the Health Mission; Both are relatively small in size, with 116 agents for ONIAM and 76 agents for FIVA. Their rapprochement is presented as being capable of enhancing their effectiveness. The mission identified several scenarios: the status quo, the sharing of support functions, or a closer rapprochement between institutions. The report presents the last option as the most efficient in terms of dematerialization, reduction in time for investigation and use of rights. The arbitration has not yet been rendered. The advantages and disadvantages of the various options still need to be assessed. The only imperative that should guide us is the best care for the needs of the victims. The decision will therefore be taken only after a close consultation of all the members of the bodies of the two institutions, which will be carried out shortly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u120	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u121	Thank you for your answer, Madam Deputy Minister. I have noted "guaranteeing or even improving", which is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u122	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to put her question, No. 1391, on early age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u123	The allocation of the large age premium excluded a number of hospital and EHPAD staff from the scheme. This situation raises the legitimate concerns of forgotten personnel. Obviously, the system of bonuses as a whole, because of its opaque and reserved nature, nourishes a feeling of injustice towards staff whose commitment and immense necessity we have praised. While the health crisis has been mobilising all the healthcare workers for a year, which the Ségur de la santé has already created many inequalities of treatment within the healthcare teams, the early age increases not only the differences in treatment between the staff, but also between the structures – EHPAD, hospitals, short geriatric stays, follow-up care and geriatric rehabilitation – which are not all recognised. This bonus, which marks the recognition of the commitment of professionals to the elderly, leaves behind several essential links in our care system: hospital service agents – ASH – and state-qualified nurses – IDE – of geriatric poles. We believe that it is imperative, in order to retain these personnel in the exercise of their mission, that all the trades of the geriatric poles benefit from an overall revalorisation of their wages and careers. The fair recognition of these trades and a relationship of trust must be consolidated. We then ask you that they be – I say "they" since it is still and still almost exclusively women who occupy these positions – all eligible for the high-age premium, regardless of their status and the type of structure in which they operate. In my constituency, in Annonay, within the hospital centre of Ardèche-Nord, 77 caregivers receive the high-age premium, while 42 IDEs and 41 ASH do not receive it. In total, 43 agents from the geriatric pole find themselves on the side of the road, while this premium, in a context of such a terrible health crisis, would only be a fair return, given their involvement. Staff deplore this system and have told me of their profound misunderstanding of this inequitable situation. My question will be simple, Madam Minister: as soon as they are mobilized to the same degree by the crisis, why do not all the staff of our care system working in the geriatric centres – to which I wish to pay tribute once again – receive this bonus? When will it be paid to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u124	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u125	Agnès Buzyn's "Invest for the Hospital" component of the "My Health 2022" plan sets out to recognize the commitment of caregivers to our seniors and to make the practice of this profession more attractive, particularly in hospital careers. The support they provide to the elderly requires specific skills and technical skills, the recognition of which should involve financial support. We're working on it in my area. The Decree of 30 June 2020 reflected this objective for the hospital public service. For the territorial civil service, the Government clarified the matter by the decree of 29 September 2020. It follows that the amount of the premium is fully covered by the sickness insurance for all professionals working in the establishments and services it finances, whether they are in the hospital or the territorial civil service. Agents can therefore immediately perceive the early age to the extent that the deliberative assembly of the referent community or public institution has adopted a deliberative act giving effect to the payment of the latter. I made sure that the Directorate-General for Local Authorities (DGCL) had communicated this prerequisite to the payment of the premium for these professionals. I can make available to you this note of 18 November last setting out the modalities chosen. Health insurance fully finances this upgrading under an exceptional scheme, including for EHPAD staff who fall under the departmentally funded dependency tariff section. If a problem were to remain, it would be due to a lack of coordination, which I would regret, believe it. I thank you for your question, which allows me to dispel the last fears that could remain and to recall the upgrading of 183 euros from the Ségur de la santé, such as the work of recognizing the professions of the support for autonomy that we carry out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u126	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u127	Thank you for your answer, Minister. If this is a malfunction, which I very much hope, staff will be happy to learn. By the end of the week, I'll be communicating with them. If this has happened, they should know, because there is no reason why there are differences. However, this brings us back to the issue of career improvement, because the question of the premium would not have taken on such importance if the employees themselves felt sufficiently recognised in their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u128	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor to put his question, No. 1365, on alternatives to confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u129	In January, the President of the Republic took the decision not to reconfinish the country, without asking for national representation, without planning a real alternative to confinement, like the one we propose with Jean-Luc Mélenchon to drastically limit the circulation of the virus, without also taking into account the warnings of scientists that the months of March and April would be a very difficult moment for our health system. On 1 March, the president called on the French to "hold another four to six weeks," which they accepted, who were patient, disciplined and lenient for more than a year. On 25 March, late in the evening, he took the floor at the end of a European Council to affirm: "I have no mea culpa to do, no remorse, no record of failure". Yet, six days later, he made a new statement to announce a kind of general reconfinition of four weeks, including the closure of schools, while the Government said the previous day, by the voice of Minister Blanquer, that it was not particularly contaminated. What, then, is this, if not a record of failure? And what a contempt for our Parliament, reduced to having to vote the next morning to say in a way its appreciation of the televised speech! At a time when the gesticulations and shootings on the theme of the virus that kills everyone and you would do for the best, are no longer enough to mask the Government's inability to deal with this crisis. In four weeks, or at least on the date you decide to loosen the vise and relax the new measures that have just entered into force, you will be obliged to put in place alternatives to containment. So what are you waiting for to have all the rooms equipped with air purifiers produced in France? What are you waiting for to distribute free FFP2 masks? What are you waiting for to organize bearings and strengthen the sanitary protocols necessary to reopen the enclosed areas? What are you waiting for to raise the patents on vaccines, which will put an end to the market logic and will allow to produce doses wherever possible? Finally, what are you waiting for to open up the promised beds in the hospital and engage in an ambitious plan that includes an increase in salaries, so as to bring back the professionals who left?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u130	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u131	Mr President, you know enough about the health situation on the ground so that I do not need to dwell on it. She's tense, she's difficult, she's trying for all our fellow citizens, and in the first place for our caregivers. You are right to underline the efforts made by all over the past year and the respect by the vast majority of the French for the instructions, the actions of the barriers, their responsible resilience, the solidarity that our fellow citizens have shown. This unprecedented crisis has obviously called into question many of our certainties. From the beginning, the public authorities have been working to correct rigidities, for many inherited ones, in order to provide adequate answers to the difficulties of our citizens. Our action is placed under the sign of pragmatism, humility. It is guided by simple principles: the security of the French, the balance between the different rationals – scientific, psychological, social – and trust in the sense of the responsibilities of each citizen. We have sought to be as agile as possible – Dunkirk's example is quite eloquent in this regard. The State's strategy has adapted to contain as much as possible the progression of the virus and its variants, as the other countries have done. This agility, coupled with the search for dialogue with the territories and listening to the proposals of the elected representatives, is always in line with the same philosophy "protect without enclosing", which you claim, and which allowed us not to put under bells, unlike most of our neighbours. It was the same state of mind that guided our last steps. The strategy of "test, alert, protect" allows to identify, to break the chains of contamination. The vaccination strategy brings us closer from week to week to the end of the crisis, thanks in particular to the success of the vaccination campaign in EHPAD, of which we talk little, and to the massive arrival of doses in April. The President of the Republic's announcements last Wednesday offer a course, that of a better balance between curbing the epidemic and maintaining a social and economic life. You point out how little the Government would have done about your proposals and the parliamentary debate. The figures are, however, there: more than 150 hours have been devoted to debates on parliamentary texts and at least as much to hearings and other checks. The French are waiting for an end to the crisis, constructive proposals, not polemics. For our part, we continue our efforts, and when I say "we", it is not only the Government, but also all the public officials, the prefects, the regional health agencies, the associations with which we work. We consult the intermediate bodies through the citizens' collective on vaccination, which we regularly interview with parliamentarians, in particular at numerous informal meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u132	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u133	Madam Minister, humility, I would like to grant it to you, but less to the President of the Republic when he comes before the French to say that he has no mea culpata to do, no remorse and no record of failure. We could have welcomed the choice he made in January not to reconvene if he had decided to implement alternatives to containment in order to limit the circulation of the virus. This has not been done and we can only note that the measures just announced are the result of a deterioration in the health situation. When you loosen the mast in a few weeks, we repeat, it will be necessary to organize these alternatives, under penalty of having to, a few weeks later, proceed to a new tightening of screws. As far as the parliamentary debate is concerned, I do not deny that we have spent hours discussing it, but you are aware that decisions are never taken here and that opposition proposals are not really debated. Moreover, the decisions are no longer even taken by the Government, but by the defence council, and it is through the press that the ministers become aware of them! Finally, on vaccines, the urgency is to lift patents to produce them everywhere. Whatever the political regime, whether we agree with it politically or not, if the vaccine is safe, if the vaccine is effective, it must be proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u134	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to put her question, No. 1361, on health safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u135	The health crisis underlined the extreme need to improve the work of all those working in the field of health and care. The aim of the Ségur de la santé was precisely to raise the profile of a sector which, if we still doubted, has proved indispensable, in particular by increasing the salaries of our caregivers. On 11 February, the Minister of Health announced that all employees of the social and medico-social structures attached to a public hospital will receive an additional 183 euros per month from 1 June next. As you know, reality is multiple and the hospital is far from the only one concerned. So there is something incomprehensible in this announcement: why would some people benefit from this bonus when others, who work in the same profession, are deprived of it? Minister, what about those who work in the health or home care professions outside the hospital – I am thinking of the employees of the Home Nursing Services (SADS) or the EHPADs, attached to the Community Centres for Social Action (CCAS) or associations in our territories? The advance of Ségur seems almost spoiled by these technocratic distinctions based on differences in the type of public service and administrative connection. Can you confirm that all the employees of the SIADs will be able to benefit from the provisions of the Ségur de la santé? If this is the case, what broad principles will determine the calculation of the compensations of these measures for the SIADs and EHPADs and what their consequences will be on the daily prices, which should not become binding on residents?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u136	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u137	Madam Member, since your question is quite close to what one of your colleagues has already asked, my answer will be similar to the one I have brought to her – it is happy, moreover. You are right to recall that this sector faces significant recruitment difficulties, particularly for home care, as I was able to see when I took up my duties. The challenge is to get the numbers up, especially by retaining these professionals. On the occasion of the Ségur agreements in July, the Government introduced an indexary supplement of 183 euros for staff in health facilities and EHPADs, and 1.5 million people benefited from this increase, some equivalent to 10 per cent increase. At the same time, the Government has undertaken to continue further work on professionals in the social and medico-social sector. Michel Laforcade, former Managing Director of the ARS Nouvelle-Aquitaine, was given a mission in December. An agreement was reached in mid-February for another category, with all non-medical professionals in public health institutions and independent EHPADs in the hospital public service. As of 1 June, these professionals will also receive additional remuneration. As a follow-up to this important first step, which represents an effort of more than €80 million per year, the Laforcade mission is conducting negotiations with trade union organisations on autonomous public structures within the hospital civil service and on the other hand, non-profit private sector professionals working in institutions and services for persons with disabilities. I would like to point out that, within the framework of this mission on the professions of autonomy, work is under way to implement operational and global proposals for the upgrading of these professions. Their results are expected shortly and national representation will of course be informed. There will be no forgetfulness of Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u138	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to speak on her question No. 1393 on the operation of municipal vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u139	"Vaccinating morning, noon and evening: no weekends and public holidays for vaccination", it is a pretty mantra of the President of the Republic which, in fact, mobilizes morning, noon and evening many communes. However, doses still do not arrive or are dispensed with the dropper. In Béziers, the municipal vaccination centre set up could accommodate 10,000 people a week, but we don't vaccinate more than 3,000. Anyway, the communes didn't meditate, they put their hands in the pocket. Béziers does not escape the rule since, every week, its vaccination center costs the city more than 46000 euros. In addition, medical expenses of more than 30000 euros in February alone, of which only part would appear to be covered by the SRA. For a city our size, such an expense is not annoyed. In addition, since 18 January, eighteen replacement nurses, i.e. not installed in their own right in a liberal practice, have been involved in vaccination at our centre. However, they have still not been paid since that date. Indeed, the health insurance does not recognise them, as they are not identified as a health centre and do not have a FINESS number – National health and social establishment file. As a result, the vouchers summarising their interventions are not treated when they are sent to the health insurance and they are not paid. In order to receive remuneration, they must be recruited by a medical office affiliated with the health insurance; the latter collects the amount of the vacations and pays them a retrocession of fees. It is therefore necessary to find a support health centre that accepts this manipulation, which is not simple both from the recruitment point of view and from the large sums to be managed. My question is twofold: can you confirm to me that the cost of vaccination centres run by the municipalities will be fully borne by the State and, if so, within what time frame? What solution could be found to facilitate and expand the work of health workers in immunization centres and speed up their remuneration?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u140	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u141	Acceleration of vaccination requires constant adaptation; This is what we are doing and we will adjust the resources allocated to communities and municipalities to accelerate the campaign. Health insurance already covers most of the expenses, be it direct payment of professionals – if there are delays, let us know, we will examine the situation – and institutions previously referred to as practising in liberal or hospital, or retired professionals who lend help and are supported by their connecting structure. On 18 February, we delegated EUR 60 million from the Regional Intervention Fund (RIF) to the ARS to finance the most urgent expenditure of the 1700 centres opened in France. The estimated needs of these centres, set at EUR 50000 for six months of operation, do not constitute a ceiling and we will remain faithful to our commitment to compensate for the additional costs, taking into account, in particular, the costs associated with opening the centres on weekends. In order to avoid any strain on the cash flow of the partners to whom the vaccination centres are attached, the RHAs must give visibility to the timing of the first grant payments and the signature of agreements, and reduce them as much as possible. All types of centres, whether labeled or not, can apply for the RIF. The costs of hospital centres are covered within the framework of the national objective of health insurance expenditure (ONDAM).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u142	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u143	We will turn to the SRA, which, for the time being, does not provide any details of the costs covered or the payment deadlines. As far as your partial response to the medical staff is concerned, I have mentioned a very particular point, namely that of replacement nurses who are neither in a liberal office nor in a health centre and who are refused recognition by the primary health insurance fund. We are therefore faced with a concrete problem: these eighteen replacement nurses – more than half of the 30 or so nurses working in the communal vaccination centre – have not been paid since January 18, when we are already in April. They cannot continue this way and, if we do not find a solution very quickly to pay them, they will stop working; It is then half the staff of the vaccination centre, which will become a vaccineadromous, which will fail. It is understandable, of course, that they do not work indefinitely without being paid, but we will be faced with a lack of medical personnel to ensure vaccination. This is a real problem and a real urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u144	Mrs Pires Beaune, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1390, concerning the Ségur de la santé and the home-help sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u145	My question also concerns home helpers, which proves that this is a real subject. For more than a year, health care providers and all staff in health facilities and medical and social facilities have been on the front line. The measures resulting from the Ségur have been a first recognition of their efforts and their unwavering commitment and, since September 2020, you have recalled, they have received an additional €183 per month, which is then extended to those working in the territorial EHPADs, and I welcome that. However, some professionals have not benefited from this upgrading, while the essential functions they perform are identical: I am thinking in particular of home living assistants attached to communal or intercommunal centres for social action, home care workers and all staff involved in private structures. Why such a breakdown of equality? The commitment, dedication, efforts, but also the risks they take in carrying out their missions, have been and remain the same. This is a profound injustice to these professionals, sometimes a source of legitimate demotivation that risks endangering the attractiveness of these professions in the coming months, which are already known to be difficult to recruit. Last week I met a living aid worker who works for an inter-municipal centre for social action (CIAS). This person, whose missions are challenging and who has demonstrated boundless dedication every day, has been in office since 2004; her schedules are split, she sometimes works on weekends, and yet, after sixteen years of work, she receives only a little higher salary per month than the SMIC. It has never ceased its activity since the beginning of the pandemic, but has not benefited from any salary adjustment. Last week, you undertook, Madam Minister Delegate, that the committee of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health would be valid by the end of May, with amendment No. 43 concerning jobs and remuneration to the national collective agreement of the branch of assistance, accompaniment, care and services at home, for an application of the new salary scale on 1 October next. I welcome this and sincerely want to believe in the effectiveness of this announcement. But the question of funding remains as the departments have so far not validated your proposal for allocation. Can you provide us with any further information on this matter? In addition, employees of personal services enterprises are excluded. Do you intend to reconsider this position? It is urgent to give all the professionals concerned the recognition they deserve. Finally, in addition to remuneration, a genuine fundamental reflection must be carried out on the professions of old age and autonomy, in order to remedy in particular the loss of meaning which professionals claim to experience. Unfortunately, there is no announcement on this point. What about the bill of great age and autonomy, repeatedly announced by the President of the Republic – and others before him – and just as often rejected? Will it be submitted to Parliament in the near future?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u146	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u147	I share your concerns about the situation of home care staff; This subject has already been widely discussed this morning. As regards the salary increase for professionals in home care and support services (SAAD) and home care nursing services (SSIAD) in the home care, accompaniment, care and services branch, a strong measure was decided under Article 47 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, creating an allocation of EUR 200 million per year from 2022 – 150 million this year – paid to the departments by the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy (CNSA), in order to help them take charge of raising the salaries of these professionals; and I have no doubt that they will go along with this process that they were calling for themselves. In the face of the health crisis, the latter have expressed their difficulties in revaluing professionals dependent on the communities. The upgrading of these occupations is a priority for me and for the Government, in order to give substance to the residential shift that we hope and need to make. This measure also allows for the financing of a structural salary adjustment for the home help industry. It is based on the work carried out by the social partners in the context of the negotiation of amendment 43 on jobs and wages in the sector, carried out with the social partners, which will soon be approved by Ministers. For the rest, I refer you to the information provided on the Laforcade mission, the forthcoming conclusion of which will allow the Government to clarify the road map for extending the measures of the Ségur de la santé to the other structures that you mentioned and which are, for some, already concerned: I am thinking in particular of the SSIADs of the hospital public service (FPH). Work is under way for professionals in non-commercial structures, and other rounds of negotiations will follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u148	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u149	I would like to stress the timing of the age and autonomy law. I also take the time I have left to draw your attention to another unjustified situation: that of hospital service agents under a single integration contract (CUI), who do not receive the covid-19 premium. They are not very numerous, but they do exactly the same work as other staff since the beginning of the crisis, within the same services. However, they are not eligible. I do not explain this difference in treatment when they are involved in the same way as their colleagues. Is there any plans to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u150	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u151	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u152	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to put his question, No. 1381, on alternance traineeships for students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u153	It's not easy to start your professional life in a pandemic context! One is not sure whether to validate one's academic or training year, when, in this context, there is no internship or alternance contract. Fifteen days ago, a student I was receiving in my permanence was concerned about the validation of his professional degree at the University of Picardie Jules Verne in Saint-Quentin. His internship was to be the justice of the peace for a year of investment, and he had accepted the rules from the beginning of the year: "You find your internship, you validate your year; You don't find an internship, you lose a year," he explained to me, seeing it as a way to push and motivate him. How can we not feel a form of injustice when the rules are truncated, because they do not integrate a health crisis in which economic uncertainties make recruiters more tiring than ever? No less than 700000 young people complete their year of study; They prepare the next or are about to enter the labour market, and need an internship or an alternance contract to validate their diploma. It was already difficult for them to find a buyer before 2020, but with the health and economic crisis, companies, deprived of prospects, are even more reluctant to welcome long trainees or alternates. The situation is painful for thousands of students, some of whom experience precariousness and isolation, to whom are now in doubt about their professional future. You will answer, Madam Minister Delegate, that you have launched the platform "1 young, 1 solution", scholarship to online internships offering 30,000 offers throughout France. However, given that 700000 students complete their final year of study, an overwhelming majority of them will not find it possible to take part and will find it difficult to enter the labour market in September, or to continue their university studies. At the same time, local authorities are making every effort to integrate these young people, by providing them with internships or alternations in order to support them towards employment. However, they will not be able to respond on their own to all requests. Some sectors, such as hotels, catering, trade or events, may not take interns or alternates, due to administrative closures due to the health situation and the lack of recovery schedules. It is now clear and clear that thousands of young people, apprentices in catering, will be amputated with much of their training this year. If the "whatever it costs" has often been praised, it does not apply to young people who, in the absence of an internship or alternation, will lose one year before entering the labour market – without knowing, moreover, whether the latter will be favourable to them. While economic compensation is essential to maintain our economy, it is equally essential to compensate for the lack of professionalisation of young people. Our duty is to fight to prevent an entire generation from being sacrificed. Madam Deputy Minister, what long-term strategy do you intend to deploy with regard to student professionalization curricula? Can you invite university presidents to exceptionally relax the rules for the validation of diplomas, due to the absence of internships this year?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u155	I am well aware that it is currently more difficult for young people to find an internship. However, the difficulties vary by sector: some remain very active, such as the BTP, food trade or personal services. In the face of the crisis, we adapt the rules as best we can so that young people can continue to train. As during the first confinement, operators such as local missions and the AFPA – National Agency for Adult Vocational Training – remain open. As for the apprentice training centres, they will reopen as early as 12 April for practical trainings – the theoretical trainings remaining at a distance. In addition, travel between home and place of work or education and training is permitted where distance education is not possible. In addition – and you have indicated – the "1 young, 1 solution" platform lists nearly 30,000 internship offers, to facilitate the linkage between proposals and applications. Since the beginning of the summer, the priority of the Government has been to maintain, as far as possible, the holding of internships, especially those whose completion is absolutely necessary to obtain a diploma. We have also taken steps to adjust the terms and conditions of the internships: for example, the circular of 15 February, signed by the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, allows for remote internships and eases their conditions. Finally, Ms. Élisabeth Borne brought together leaders of large companies to encourage them to give students maximum visibility on the internship opportunities they can offer them in the immediate future and by the summer. The Government is aware of the difficulties faced by young people at a crucial time in their lives, when they are building their future. We are – and will remain – fully mobilized by them to help and accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u156	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u157	Students are all confronted with an unknown: 66% of them feel they are abandoned – I don't say they are, but that's the feeling they express – and more than half have considered dropping out of school. The situation is therefore very bleak. It is true that some sectors still work – and fortunately – but many are at a standstill. On the other hand, many students used to do internships in very small or medium-sized enterprises. In the absence of economic prospects, however, they are slow to respond to requests for internships. It will therefore be necessary for university presidents to show openness by examining situations on a case-by-case basis and by easing the conditions for the validation of diplomas when the health crisis prevented students from obtaining an internship.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u158	I call Mr Buon Tan to speak on his question No. 1372 on insecurity in the 13th arrondissement of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u159	I would like to ask Mr. Keeper of the Seals about the criminal response to the crime in the 13th arrondissement of Paris, particularly on the Esplanade des Olympiades, in the city of Glacier and around the rue du Chevaleret. The crime fires, the mortar fire – several nights in a row last summer – and the threats and clashes with the police remind the inhabitants of the presence of this crime on a daily basis. In addition, there is an increase in acts of anti-Asian racism, which undermine the lives of the inhabitants and seriously undermine our "living together". So far, the criminal response has proved to be insufficient: the perpetrators of these acts continue to act with impunity, without ever being arrested – or, when they are, they are almost immediately released without conviction, due in particular to the congestion of the courts. As for the reminders to the law and other works of general interest, many offenders regard them as a joke, when they do not collect them as medals... This lack of criminal sanctions only reinforces the sense of impunity of these individuals, sometimes minors, who very often reoffend and threaten the victims who lodge complaints against them. On the side of the victims, it is often total incomprehension. Many do not want to waste their time going to complain because, in many cases, the complaints will be closed and the perpetrators will not be found – without any return being made to the victims. Disillusioned, some residents and traders are contemplating the use of private security. This situation is alarming and has already lasted too long. The State must act and provide firm and concrete responses to these exasperated inhabitants. Security is one of the pillars of our freedom; It's a right for everyone. What concrete measures are planned to enable the justice system to respond to such crimes, particularly those committed by minors? An increase in the budget of the Ministry of Justice for the year 2021 was announced, in particular to develop community justice. How can the 13th arrondissement of Paris best combat this crime on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u160	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u161	I would be grateful if you would excuse Mr. Keeper of the Seals, who was held in an interview with the Registrars of the Commercial Courts. The fight against daily crimes that create insecurity for our citizens is one of the Government's priorities. The general criminal policy circular of 1 October 2020 and the circular of 15 December 2020 on community justice strongly draw the attention of prosecutors to this issue and ask them to ensure that responses to all forms of violence are provided. Such violence and incivilities are all the more unbearable when they intervene in a discriminatory and racist context. Public prosecutors are fully mobilized to apprehend these offences, to refer the perpetrators of the most serious offences and to provide a pedagogic response to others. The Paris Public Prosecutor's Office has taken full account of these recommendations by retaining, as soon as possible, the aggravating circumstance linked to the alleged ethnicity of the victim, particularly in the case of anti-Asian violence. These attacks or hate speech against the Asian community attract the full attention of the Ministry of Justice. It strongly condemns and remains very vigilant about any act of violence committed on the grounds of origin. Finally, the 8 per cent increase in the budget of the Ministry of Justice for 2021 will provide an appropriate criminal response to daily offences in the context of community justice. For example, the judicial court in Paris was strengthened by 33 legal assistants and registry reinforcements, an increase of almost 9 per cent for headquarters. We empower justice to deal with crime in your constituency, and more generally in the capital, in synergy with the internal security forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u162	Mr Buon Tan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u163	Thank you for that clarification. I would also like to draw your attention to what is happening on the Internet. There are many facts between the two worlds that are not separated by an impassable wall, many calls to hatred that result in attacks that sometimes lead to fifteen or twenty days of total temporary incapacity or even murder. It is important that we be vigilant. If I tell you this, it is because recently, the victims of people who had called for online hatred and who had been prosecuted, returned to me to tell me that they had experienced very badly that the prosecution only required work of general interest. That is not enough, and I do not think that it is necessary to wait until there have been deaths in order to react firmly. Furthermore, I was aware of the work carried out by the keeper of the seals in order to remove automatic remissions of sentences, and to condition remissions of sentences to a true will to work and to integrate into society. This goes in the right direction, but we must also look at the issue of minors because, between prison and almost nothing, there is little. We must send them a strong sign that what they are doing is reprehensible, but we must also train, educate and alert them without imprisoning them. I count on this work and I believe that the arrival of municipal police could also help to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u164	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor to put her question, No. 1376, concerning the prison in Limoges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u165	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice to the situation of the prison in Limoges, which has been welcoming detainees since its establishment in 1853. The obsolescence of the places is obvious. Despite some renovations undertaken since 2018, the unsanitary nature of the site remains a central concern. It is an issue of dignity for prisoners, it is a necessity for the safety and working conditions of prison staff and it is finally a need for residents who suffer from the repercussions of the presence of this institution in the city centre. In France, the average occupancy rate of remand houses and 119%. On average, the Limoges detention facility has an occupancy rate of 150 per cent and is currently 167 per cent for men and 161 per cent for women. Limoges has the highest prison overcrowding rate in New Aquitaine on a regular basis. At the beginning of 2020, there were 17 inmates for 11 places in the women's section and 119 prisoners for 57 places in the men's section. Unfortunately, what was exceptional becomes the daily life: three prisoners in cells of 8 square meters with a mattress on the ground. The health context reinforces the urgency of responding to this situation. However, the Limoges prison has not been included in the national plan, which provides for the construction of 15,000 new prison places on the national territory by 2027. For several years, the elected representatives have been mobilizing to propose a project to build a new prison on the outskirts of Limoges. This is fully in line with the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law of 23 April 2019: improving the care of prisoners, securing the facilities and working conditions of prison staff. Land proposals have been made in recent months to the Ministry of Justice to initiate this project that I have had the opportunity to relay to your services. So, to what extent will the Limoges prison be able to integrate the prison real estate plan in order to address both the problems of overcrowding and the outdated state of the present premises?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u166	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u167	The Guard of Seals and the Government are deeply committed to improving conditions of detention. As of 1 January 2021, the prison density was 103 per cent, 15 points less than on 1 January 2020, thanks in particular to the exceptional early release measures taken during the health crisis. The Limoges prison has a capacity of eighty-three places. In one year, its occupancy rate increased from 190% to 143%. Nevertheless, the number of staff is still high, particularly in the neighbourhoods of the majors. Only one cell to date includes a mattress placed on the floor in men. Unfortunately, this is sometimes necessary temporarily upon the arrival of a new inmate. In addition, the Bordeaux Interregional Directorate is fully mobilized to regulate the prison population with transfers to institutions for punishment: 117 in 2020, 47 in 2021. You recall the commitment made by the President of the Republic to create 15,000 prison places by 2027. The locations selected focus on the territories with the greatest needs in view of the current number of places of detention and the 10-year projection of the criminal population. The Ministry of Justice has not identified any priority in Upper Vienna in the medium term. On the other hand, work has been carried out in the Limoges prison in recent years. The kitchen was renovated in 2015, the showers in 2016, 2018 and 2020, and the windows of the disciplinary district in 2020. Since 2018, nearly 130000 euros of work have been carried out. Finally, the demolition-reconstruction of the Bordeaux-Gradignan prison, where places will be delivered in 2023, will reduce overcrowding in the establishments of neighbouring departments, including the Limoges prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u168	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u169	I want to thank the services of the Ministry of Justice with whom I have the opportunity to exchange regularly and who have responded to my alerts. Indeed, the rate of overpopulation has significantly decreased since our last meeting and necessary work has been undertaken, but they remain insufficient, knowing that the site is 170 years old. It seems to me that we need to go further, and the health period obliges us to redouble our vigilance. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to establish prospects for this site and for prison staff. I had the pleasure, Madam Minister, to welcome you to Limoges to talk about professional integration. I hope that the Minister will make the trip to see for himself the oldness of the prison site and to meet with the prison staff who, in these circumstances, demonstrate an exemplary commitment in the course of their missions. Thank you for conveying this invitation to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u170	Mr Hervé Pellois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1371, concerning the placement of disabled people in Belgium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u171	Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, I would like to thank you for the World Autism Awareness Day that you highlighted with the President of the Republic last Friday, which has given rise to a great many mobilizations throughout our country and on television channels. For my part, I had the pleasure of meeting the association "Damamy and I build with autism" in my constituency of Vannes, where the National Centre for Care Abroad (CNSE) operates, which deals in particular with the payments of unconventional establishments which receive in large number our compatriots adults with disabilities, i.e. almost half of the 8500 expatriates in Belgium – 7,000 adults and 1500 children. In 2016, I had already asked the Government about the increasing number of placements, including adult placements. Since then, the situation has only worsened: 2300 adults in 2015 at a cost of 103 million euros, 3900 adults in 2020 for 193 million euros. This number has increased by only 2% in 2020, which seems to indicate a tangible shift in our policy, which you should be commended for. At present, 146 establishments are still not covered by the agreement. Can you tell us whether the four-year government-agreed agreement plan, which was to be implemented in 2020, is operational? Who controls the facilities, including the quality of care and staff? Abuses of invoicing are always mentioned by the CNSE, but a posteriori. I would also like to know the progress of the Government's announcements in February 2020 concerning the creation of more than 1000 places in French establishments between 2021 and 2022, and the additional measures that could be developed to help the departments of Nord and Seine-Saint-Denis, particularly dependent on these unconventional Belgian structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u172	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u173	The World Autism Awareness Day, on April 2, was hosted by the President of the Republic, and I recently went with him to Saint-Egrève, Isère, where we visited an early childhood care unit – early identification of neurodevelopment disorders is indeed one of the areas where we need to change the situation – which allowed us to see the progress made in this area. You're asking me about adults. Today, among people with neurodevelopment disorders, more than 700000 have a diagnosis of autism, whether it is not already done, including nearly 600,000 adults for whom we are working precisely to improve their diagnosis. Currently, 8000 French are welcomed in Belgium and the departures of adults continue. I would point out that it is not only people with autism who go to Belgium, but also those with a polydisability or intellectual disability. While some have chosen to leave, others, too many, have accepted this choice for lack of solution in France. We can no longer tolerate this situation. We are the first government to put an end to this scandal of financing places abroad, to tolerate commercial marketing in our health hospitals. We have decided to launch, together with my Walloon counterpart Christie Morreale, whose commitment I welcome, a moratorium on the creation of adult places in Wallonia. I would like to reassure the families: the orientation projects approved before 28 February, the date of this moratorium, will be honoured because we do not want any break-ups that are under way. The three regions most affected by departures will receive 90 million euros: more than 26 million for Hauts-de-France, 51 million for Île-de-France and 13 million for the Grand Est. 650 new places are already planned in these three regions, and by 2023 we will have proposed at least 1000 new solutions. I have set up a national committee to follow up on this creation plan, involving all the actors in the associations and of course the departments, with which we share this responsibility. It is a strong commitment of the State, a collective commitment of which we can be proud. We are working on the creation of life units of six people for adults with severe autistic spectrum disorders, so complex to accompany. We must give priority to these dignified and respectful reception solutions for those adults who have been wandering for too long, for lack of accompanying care. You can count on my determination to enforce this plan. Mobilizing the management associations of departments and SRAs is a priority, a commitment of the major national strategy for autism in neurodevelopment disorders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u174	Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u175	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment and these words of hope, so necessary for all of us, for our country, for the families and for those people who are in great difficulty. As elected officials, we are regularly alerted to these difficulties and the lack of reception solutions. The efforts made by the Government are commendable, but we must at the same time reduce the number of people welcomed in Belgium – that is still 8000 jobs lost for France for the benefit of our Belgian friends – and the waiting time for families. I know this important project will take time, but the commitment of the state to the communities, particularly the department, is more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u176	We have finished with the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-06-O1230.u177	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The meeting is adjourned.
