ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u2	Mr Philippe Latomb, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1562, concerning the circumvention of the non-patentability of software.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u3	Since 2005, when the European Parliament confirmed the current European law by refusing that the software falls within the scope of patentability, the large US software companies have been trying to circumvent this ban. With Germany as the home of the European Patent Office, the European Commission has attempted to establish a trade agreement outside the EU treaties, which removes the European Parliament's right of scrutiny and opinion on the text. The French delegation would have already given its consent to the organization of a ceremony to sign this declaration on the sidelines of a meeting of the Permanent Representatives Committee (COREPER) in Brussels. How could we promote our digital sovereignty, as the President of the Republic told the French in his last speech, and tolerate such practices? Why were our assemblies never informed, when there should have been a debate within them before giving any negotiating mandate for the signing of this declaration in the Council? Can the exact content of this statement be specified? Is the Convention compatible with the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties and who has carried out a legal verification of it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u4	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u5	The proposed unified patent jurisdiction in Europe aims to create a European court with jurisdiction over the validity and infringement of European patents and the future European patent with unitary effect, granted by the European Patent Office. The European Commission does not play a role in this intergovernmental project. The objective of the agreement is to create a single European patent judge in accordance with European Union law and the rules of the European Patent Convention. The aim of the project is to remedy the shortcomings of the current situation which leads companies to bring multiple disputes before the courts of the different Member States where patents are protected and infringement proceedings are found. This project is therefore a real step forward and it has the support of all European companies, for which it is an essential part of the effective legal framework of the patent system in Europe and a factor of competitiveness of the European economy. The non-patentability of software is dealt with in the context of the grant of patents in Europe, which does not fall within the competence of the unified patent court but of the European Patent Office under the European Patent Convention. Similarly, the agreement on the unified jurisdiction of patents does not concern the digital sovereignty of Europe or France: this agreement is only intended to provide Europe with a single patent jurisdiction, which Europe does not currently have, which is competent for the validity and infringement of patents in all technological fields. The activity of the unified patent court will be integrated into the legal order of the Union, as the court may refer questions for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union and will in any event be bound by the case law of the Union and the law of the Union. The purpose of the draft declaration is to adopt an interpretation of Article 3 of the Provisional Protocol to the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court, which draws the consequences of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. The sole purpose of the declaration is to replace Italy with the United Kingdom with the list of States whose ratification is necessary for the entry into force of the provisional implementing protocol. This draft technical declaration does not alter in any way the content of the Provisional Protocol of Application or the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court. It does not constitute a trade agreement and does not address issues of software non-patentability or digital sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u6	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u7	Thank you for that answer. There is no question of calling into question the unified jurisdiction of patents, which companies actually need. I would simply like to draw your attention to the fact that this jurisdiction will be an extension of the European Patent Office, which twists the legal model and accepts software patentability on the grounds that they can offer technical advantages. With such a jurisdiction, we risk having patents validated at first and second instance which will be difficult to enforce in the different countries of the Union, or to which it will be difficult to apply Union law. Software patentability should not become a deleterious consequence of the creation of this jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u8	Mrs Jeanine Dubie, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, raised her question No 1586 concerning capital gains placed in tax deferral.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u9	A tax problem has arisen with increasing severity since the crisis of the covid: that of capital gains placed in tax deferral. In the 1980s-90s, particularly in Lourdes, many hotels and businesses previously operated as sole proprietorships were brought into companies so that hoteliers and traders could transmit them more easily to their children. These changes in legal status allowed hoteliers and traders to generate tax gains in tax deferrals, sometimes very important because of the high profitability of these companies at the time. It is important to point out that these contributions did not in any way generate collection of money or tax deductions for these taxpayers, since they were focused on intangible assets – commercial funds – and constituted the value of social capital by simple accounting. However, the value of these commercial funds has fallen sharply as a result of the covid crisis and the owners of these companies wishing to divest their shares are now faced with a situation which they denounce the tax inequity. Indeed, the loss of value found from the sale, which will be released at the time of the transfer of the shares, falls within the tax system of the personal gains and losses. On the other hand, the surplus-value placed in tax carry-over on the contribution of the sole proprietorship to the company falls under the tax system of occupational capital gains. As a result, personal losses and professional gains cannot be offset, the taxpayer is paid a tax that is not backed by a perceived wealth. In spite of a question written in December 2020 and then a letter of revival in September 2021, I have still not received an answer on this subject. I would therefore like to reiterate my question: in order to put an end to this situation and to make the tax system more equitable, does the Government intend to amend the relevant regulations, for example by allowing compensation between personal and professional gains?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u10	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u11	This issue was raised by your colleague Jean-Paul Mattei during the consideration of the 2022 Finance Bill. As I have told him, the Government is carefully considering possible solutions. However, the amendments proposed in the course of these discussions have not been able to find a satisfactory solution to date. The surplus-value realized by a natural person on the occasion of the contribution of an individual enterprise to a company subject to a real taxation regime may, on option, be subject to a tax deferral. Where the contribution of the sole proprietorship has been made to a company subject to corporate tax, the capital gain deferred for taxation falls within the scope of the occupational capital gains scheme. On the other hand, the plus or minus value of the subsequent transfer of the social rights received in return for this contribution falls under the system of personal capital gains. This difference does not allow for the imputation of the possible loss on the sale of the company's securities subject to a real tax scheme on the gain on professional contributions, the tax deferral of which ends at the time of the transfer. That is what you are proposing to question. This imputation ban is due to the fact that each category of income is determined on its own basis of assessment and no compensation is possible in such a situation. Personal and professional gains are not subject to the same taxation, to the same base rules, or to the same social treatment, which, as the regulations currently stand, hinders compensation between them. Revising that rule would pave the way for various fraudulent behaviour, which the Government wished to avoid. Work is under way within the administration to consider a mechanism to mitigate the effects of the situation you mention while limiting the risk of fraud. That was the only reason for the delay in responding: there were many risks of fraud and it was also the duty of the Government to protect itself against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u12	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u13	Thank you for the answer that you leave the door open. I hope that you will find a legal solution so that these operations can be carried out with respect not only for the interests of public finances but also for the people concerned. I hope that the solution can be found before the end of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u14	Mrs Nicole Trisse, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1574, concerning the payment of the inflation allowance to cross-border workers in Moselle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u15	Madam Deputy Minister, I would like to draw attention to the situation of the Moselle frontier workers by two very specific and concrete questions. I would like to associate my colleague, Hélène Zannier, a constituency neighbour, who is present in the Chamber and who shares my concerns. The inflation premium is granted to 38 million French citizens receiving less than 2000 euros net per month. The way in which this bonus is awarded is now well understood for our students, employees and pensioners residing in France. It is less so for the 16500 French workers employed in German companies, who are nevertheless the first to be affected by the increase in the price of fuel because the car is often the only means of transport to go to work in Germany. In addition, many people make long journeys to work on a daily basis. Could you specify how this inflation premium will be paid to our frontier workers who would be eligible for it? On the other hand, I would like to alert you to the problem of the double taxation of French unemployed people who have been dismissed from a company based in Germany. Some of the unemployment benefits to which they are entitled are unduly paid by the German tax authorities, thereby reducing the amount of the benefit which is subsequently taxed in France. It's not a double, it's a triple penalty. In addition to the loss of his job, our frontier worker is subject to double taxation contrary to the tax treaties between France and Germany. What means do you intend to use to bring this absurd situation to an early end?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u16	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u17	According to the Government's plan, inflation compensation is an exceptional and individual aid of 100 euros paid by the State, which will be paid to persons residing in France in order to preserve their purchasing power, provided that they receive an annual net income below a certain threshold. The payment will be made by employers for employees working in France. For operational reasons, however, it is not possible for inflation compensation to be paid by foreign employers for frontier workers. Consequently, for persons domiciled in France within the meaning of 1. a. of Article 4 B of the General Tax Code and receiving only income from foreign sources taxable in France, including frontier nationals, the payment of the compensation shall be effected by the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP). It should take place in February 2022 and be addressed to eligible users without intervention, directly by transfer to their bank account or by sending a cheque letter for those who have not communicated their bank details to the tax administration. All persons who would qualify for this allowance but would not have been selected by FIPB will naturally have the opportunity to approach their personal tax department to report their situation in order to obtain the transfer of the allowance. As far as partial unemployment benefits are concerned, you are absolutely right. These allowances paid to French residents working in Germany are subject to a flat-rate levy in Germany which is contrary both to the tax convention between our two countries and to European law. German practice also seems to ignore the principle of free movement of workers enshrined in the European Treaties, and a number of individual disputes have been brought by the workers concerned before the competent courts in Germany. The Government was fully aware of the difficulties that the situation created for the workers concerned and had brought this matter before the German Government in the summer of 2020. France insists on the damage caused to frontier workers and on the need not to call into question the balances found in the tax convention with Germany, because the solution cannot be through a waiver of our rights to impose. At this stage, the French authorities are still waiting for a return of the German social ministries, in a particular context as the German government is in the process of being set up. Be assured of our very great involvement in this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u18	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u19	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for both of your answers. The first one is very clear, and I'll pass it on. As far as double taxation is concerned, I thank the Government for relaunching the discussion with the Germans: we can only expect a realization of what the Treaty of Aachen, signed by Chancellor Merkel and President Macron, suggests on the harmonization of tax rules between our two countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u20	Mrs Zannier has the floor to raise her question, No. 1576, concerning frontier workers at the Ford plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u21	Faced with the transformation of the automotive sector, Ford decided to drastically reduce its production in Saarland and thus to carry out a significant reduction of its staff. The Sarrelouis plant employs nearly 1,000 French frontier workers out of a total of nearly 7,000 jobs. She would consider closing the entire site. For the coal basin, a territory already hard hit by the end of coal mining in 2004, this eventual closure would be an economic and social disaster. The Ford Group has begun a restructuring of the site and nearly 2,500 jobs have been eliminated in recent years on both sides of the border. To date, departures have mostly been voluntary or related to unreplaced retirements. Nevertheless, we still have some hope: the Ford Group would consider keeping the future 100% electric model in Europe. The choice would be made between Sarrelouis and Valencia. One of the main criteria of this choice, which could take place at the beginning of 2022, would be the number of staff still employed on the site. The company offers very incentive severance benefits, especially for older employees. However, for these benefits to remain advantageous, the severance premium must be exempt from tax. It was in the case of the first departures, but the answer was very late for the next, which created a lot of uncertainty. We have recently received a confirmation of exemption from the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP), which I welcome for the employees. Could you confirm, Madam Deputy Minister, that the tax exemption for severance pay is valid? In general, how does the Government intend to act to simplify procedures, clarify or enforce tax agreements between European countries? Like my colleague Nicole Trisse, I really want to alert you to the difficulties faced by these workers. I would like to think about the development of a real statute for some 170,000 frontier workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u22	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u23	You rightly call the Government's attention to the restructuring of the Ford site in Sarrelouis, Germany, which is the subject of a particularly close follow-up by the State services and ministers, given the number of French border workers involved. A few months ago, DGFIP did indeed receive a request to define the tax system for severance benefits paid in respect of the year 2021 to frontier workers working in Sarrelouis. As you rightly point out, it was legitimate for the tax administration to secure this restructuring plan by confirming to the taxpayers concerned the tax treatment relating to the various allowances provided. I would also like to take this opportunity to recall the transformation undertaken at DGFIP in the context of the relationship of trust, which results in an increased mobilisation of the tool of the tax rescript. In 2020, despite the health crisis, more than 20,000 requests for tax rescripts were processed by DGFIP within an average of eighty-seven days. We can always do better, but it is important to share these statistics. We need to deepen this movement and further generalize this instrument of legal security for businesses and individuals. In the case of the severance benefits at the Ford plant, the final parts required for the examination of the file were obtained in early October. This is also why the processing time has been long. Following receipt of these documents, a response was provided by the local service of DGFIP on 29 October 2021. Essentially, this response is in favour of employees. The subject is therefore closed, unless the interpretation of the administration is challenged before the judge. The administration thus confirmed that the compensation paid under three of the four departure programmes, coordinated with the works council on the basis of strict voluntary work, constituted breaches of a contract of employment of a conventional type and therefore fell within the exemption provided for in Article 80 duodecies of the General Tax Code. On the other hand, the administration considered that the so-called bridging allowance constitutes an allowance equivalent to a progressive retirement scheme which does not fall within the requirements of that exemption and therefore remains taxable. I believe, Madam Member, that the content of this reply has been communicated to you and I hope that it will fully address the concerns you have raised. I confirm it so that there is no ambiguity in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u24	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u25	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for these answers. It is always better to obtain confirmation. For having been in a lot of contact with the unions, however, I would like to reiterate that this is a very complicated situation for the workers. The delay in the supply of the necessary parts to DGFIP can only be explained by the differences in regulation between Germany and France. As a result, the uncertainty that prevailed for more than a year was a source of great anxiety for employees. That is why I insist: we should think collectively about the development of a real statute for the borderers of Moselle and elsewhere – France has many borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u26	The floor is open to Mr François Jolivet, to put his question, No. 1575, concerning the end of Orange's Femtocell offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u27	In asking this question, I speak for many rural mayors and homes in my department of Indre, particularly Hervé Jeunesse, mayor of the commune of Nuret-le-Ferron. These territories benefited from an application called Femtocell, developed for Orange, which allowed, with the help of a mini transmitter, to optimize mobile coverage. The Orange telephone operator decided to put an end to this offer, which the inhabitants were informed by a simple note, even before new antennas were deployed. Currently, residents can no longer use their mobile phones. In France, some 200,000 households – or 600,000 people – would be affected. The operator advises them to use the "Wi-Fi calls" function, which allows them to make and receive calls on their mobile phone via the Wi-Fi box. Even if they have compatible devices to do so, they still need to have access to a box and an Internet throughput sufficient to carry voice, which is not the case in all territories. I am aware of the Government's involvement in this area: thanks to the New Deal mobile, the antennas are deployed throughout the territory, allowing unprecedented coverage. However, it is surprising that an application is closed before the new antennas are installed. How can one return to common sense and prevent operators from closing an application in advance? In case of early closure, people no longer have a telephone until the new antenna is installed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u28	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u29	By February 2021, the Orange operator had announced its intention to terminate its Femtocell offer, which allowed 160,000 subscribers to connect a device to their fixed internet box, in order to improve the quality of their mobile network. As a result of this announcement, the operator communicated on alternatives such as the use of the voice device on wifi and offered its customers internet support and a green number. This decision is subject to the commercial freedom of operators. Nevertheless, I am aware that it causes inconvenience for some users, because of the need to adapt to the abandonment of this technology by Orange but also by some of its competitors. I cannot force operators to maintain a particular service or technology, but the evolving digital coverage of the territories, for which the Government is responsible, allows users to benefit from more efficient electronic communications services. First, as you indicate, very high-speed fixed coverage has been significantly improved in Indre. It allows mobile phones to be used through voice technology on wifi or by applications with a voice communication function. Secondly, with regard to mobile coverage of the territory, the implementation of the New Mobile Deal has the effect of generalizing 4G throughout France, including within buildings. The aim of this programme is to remove both white areas – no operator – and grey areas – a limited number of operators – in terms of 4G. The choice is thus left to the territories to prioritise white or grey areas, which favours a certain flexibility and thus a better adaptation to local characteristics. When a white area is prioritized locally, the four operators are obliged to pool their infrastructures within the framework of RAN-sharing – radio access network sharing or radio access sharing. Where a grey area is prioritised, the scheme can complement the coverage by involving operators not present at this stage and thus contribute to the coverage of the territory concerned by all operators. The Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques, des postes et de la distribution de la presse (ARCEP) regularly monitors compliance with these deployment obligations and publishes the results on its website on a quarterly basis. It states that in the first quarter of 2021 the Indre Department was covered in 4G at 99% by at least one operator, which represents a significant increase over the previous year. I understand that the impatience of our fellow citizens is great, but I want to assure you, honourable Member, that the government's mobilization to ensure that the territory is covered is complete. In five years, we have moved from a situation of fragility to a situation of very high coverage. Already very competitive in terms of prices, our telecommunications services thus improve their position on the European level with regard to quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u30	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u31	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for this information. I do not dispute the unprecedented commitment of the Government, whose consequences my department perceives. Nevertheless, the Government should remind Orange – which it cannot compel – that the operator's front-office services are quite defective when its customers request specific information. Orange warned its customers in January 2021 that this service was going to disappear, but it would also have been necessary to create a back-up mechanism at the time of this abolition. I would therefore like to draw your attention to this point, while acknowledging the Government's commitment to digital aerial or wired coverage – it is exceptional, especially in my department. Still, people are waiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u32	Mr Frédéric Petit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1563, on the modernization of consular services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u33	My question is for several ministers, in particular for Europe and foreign affairs. It starts from the observation that it is still difficult for French people living abroad to access the administrative services of our State. I understand the logics of rationalisation and security, which I explain to my compatriots. However, I find inconsistencies, bureaucratic chills, contradictory and uncoordinated circulars... It's a long list. The most irritating is to be confronted with opposing interpretations of identical texts by different consulates. We had another example this weekend, regarding the colour of the envelopes used for elections. To establish the identity card of a child born abroad, a consulate will tell you that this is a legal decision, while another will simply ask for your identity card. Other things seem incomprehensible to us. Why can't a national identity card travel safely, unlike a passport? Why does it take three months to authenticate a birth certificate? At the same time, I welcome the progress made. The French consular platform represents a great step forward, although it remains to be confirmed that it will involve all ministries and state services, that it will be a service platform and not just a referral platform. We should also be reassured about the pace of its deployment. At a time when it is possible to open a bank account in five minutes and where large platforms are rapidly developing on the planet, we find it difficult to understand that the French state needs more than two years to deploy this tool. I also welcome the commitment of the people, whom we observed during the crisis of the Covid-19. In the light of this experience, it seems clever to me to want to redeploy human resources in order to free up targeted time for the citizens who need it. We worked a lot with the ministry. We have the network and the resources to do better. I would also like to highlight the particular role that cooperation between the French and German consular services could play. Article 13 of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle invites us to coordinate what we call the irritants of everyday life. It is possible to envisage an extension of the cross-jurisdiction between, for example, the Bürgerbüro and the consular services. Why should we trust the consulate of a remote country more than, for example, a large German town hall? It is important to modernize consular services, to make them more coherent and effective, which requires profound reorganization. Simplicity, speed and conviviality must be pursued. We don't live on Mars. We also need the same services as other French people because we too are really in love with our spouses and we love our children. Some of our fellow citizens are considering taking the other nationality – I remind you, it takes three days to get an identity card in Bulgaria. Mr. Secretary of State in charge of tourism, French abroad and French-speaking France, what avenues do you envisage in order to accelerate the modernization of our services to French settled abroad?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u34	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u35	We share the same ambition to improve consular administrative services for French nationals living abroad, and like you, I welcome the action of women and men who, throughout the eighteen months of the health crisis, have faced the difficulties by accompanying our fellow citizens, by deploying the exceptional measures taken by the Government, including the occasional relief of solidarity (SOS), and by repatriating the French from abroad. You mentioned the France Consulaire platform, the new information service for consular procedures by telephone or by e-mail. Its creation testifies to our ambition to offer French abroad an ever more effective service. The platform's call rate is 98.5%. The response to users was much weaker when the calls were managed by consulates, each of which had limited resources for its information service. With these good results, the Government intends to gradually deploy the France Consular platform throughout the world. We will also continue to simplify the procedures and I have called on the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, to move forward with the dematerialization of passport renewal. France would not be France if it were not able to implement such a mechanism, which avoids displacements of sometimes several hundred kilometres. I also asked the Minister of the Interior about the possibility of extending secure mail to national identity cards. Secure postal mail, now possible for passports, will be expanded to 13 additional countries beyond the thirty-eight already covered, which is a step forward. I also know that there is a very high demand for appointments. Some situations are not satisfactory. It is not normal, for example, to have to get up in the middle of the night to get an appointment. A new application is therefore being finalized and will be put into service at the beginning of next year. Please be aware, honourable Member, that many other projects are under way and that we are far from having developed all our ideas to improve consular administrative services. With you, we will continue to act at the service of our compatriots established outside France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u36	Mr Loïc Prud'homme spoke about his question, No. 1565, concerning the accompaniment of pupils with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u37	My question is simple: how many disabled children in our country are no longer accompanied by the State to meet their needs? Behind this figure is the reality: children left to themselves in the school environment, overcrowded teachers and families who feel abandoned. When I asked the director of the departmental services of national education of the Gironde on this subject, he cynically replied that the departmental houses of disabled persons (MDPH) are "machines to notify". Your administration thus denies the work of its own educational teams, which, following the reasoned requests of the parents, fill out guides to assess the need for compensation for schooling (GEVA-sco files) in order to determine the number of hours of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH) required or to provide for reception in a specialized system. Why is the personalized project of schooling thus determined by the professionals of the CDMH not implemented by the national education, which refuses to equip itself with sufficient human resources and practices the sprinkle by mutualizing here or there eight hours of accompaniment when it would take twenty, thus causing situations of suffering? Hide this problem that I cannot see: this is the answer given to parents, children and teachers who simply demand that the law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities be respected. The truth is that national education has no plans for these students, except for the lowest possible cost, in deafening silence. There are also no projects for AESHs who follow several children in different schools, without proper training and for an income below the poverty line. The truth is that this situation is the result of the brutal dismantling of the public service of education, dismantling which you organize: the end of the system "more teachers than classes", the planned disappearance of the networks of specialized aids to pupils in difficulty (RASED), become "resource poles", and teachers who run after the means... Mr. Secretary of State in charge of tourism, French from abroad and the Francophonie, since you must be contacted directly to obtain answers, I reiterate my question: how many children with disabilities recognized by the CDMH and benefiting from a personalized school enrolment project (PPS) are deprived of any support for national education – whether it is the presence of an AESH or a localized school enrolment unit for school inclusion (ULIS) or an educational and educational therapeutic institute (ITAP) – in violation of their right under the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u38	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u39	Everything that's excessive is in vain, Mr. Prud'homme. If there is one area in which children's daily lives have changed, it is that of accompaniment for students with disabilities. I remember a conference held 14 years ago in the National Assembly. At the time, Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, was president of an association and we discussed the status of school life assistants (AVS), who then accompanied disabled children. Look at everything that has been done since and even since 2017! You want figures, MP: 400,000 students with disabilities are now welcomed to school, an increase of 19% in five years – yes, the French school is now more inclusive! AESHs are now 120000 and enjoy a more protective status. We will recruit an additional 4000 AESH in 2022. Since 2017, 27,000 full-time equivalents (FTEs) have joined schools, an increase of more than 50%. The numbers are clear! It is natural to want to do politics, but the situation has progressed significantly and I want to re-establish the facts. In Gironde, the inclusive school is also a reality since 7,300 students with disabilities are in regular school and 1415 positions have been created since 2017. Everything is probably not perfect, but recognize the progress made! I am thinking in particular of the AESHs, whose routes have been secured. Thanks to the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust, the Government has transformed the aided contracts into CDS and then CDI after six years. Finally, since September 2021, these staff have benefited from a revamped index grid, with an automatic progression every three years and an increase of 9 index points at the beginning of their career. In total, the resources dedicated to inclusive school represent more than 3.5 billion euros, an increase of more than 66% since 2017. Moreover, within the scope of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, I am making sure that this ambitious policy also applies to French education abroad. In the 2022 finance bill, an allocation will be made next year to finance the support of more students with disabilities from the Agence pour l'enseignement du français à l'étranger (AEFE). Frankly, honourable Member, the facts and figures are clear! Beyond the numbers, human lives have changed. It is always possible to do better, but our determination is complete and you cannot deny it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u40	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u41	It's all right, Mr. Secretary of State! Yet the facts are there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u42	I called them back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u43	Massive appeals to the administrative court; proceedings against national education concerning the non-assignment of AESH and systematically won on the grounds of a lack of resources: you deny the reality and refuse to devote the necessary resources to the accompaniment of pupils with disabilities! The new academic director of the Gironde told me that it was very difficult to recruit new AESHs. It's not surprising when you know the salary proposed for this position! Either we deny the reality of the facts and we do not solve the problems; We either look them in the face and we unlock sufficient budgetary resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u44	That's what we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u45	The means are not enough, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u46	An increase of more than 50%!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u47	They're not...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u48	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u49	... to meet the needs of parents and students!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u50	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor to put her question, No. 1578, on the use of animals for scientific purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u51	The European Directive 2010/ 63/EU calls for the development of alternative methods for the progressive replacement of animals used for scientific purposes. These provisions were transposed into French law by Decree No. 2013-118 of 1 February 2013, as well as by four decrees adopted on the same date. However, since 2013, the number of animals used for scientific and educational purposes has not decreased. On the contrary, it is constantly increasing: it has increased by 47% between 2015 and 2018. Excluding animals killed for their tissues or organs and those used to create and maintain colonies of genetically modified animals, our country "eats" about two million animals each year. Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, French Foreigners and Francophones, the morals of a society are also judged by the way animals are treated there. You know the advances made by the majority in favour of animal welfare. This issue concerns the French and French, especially the younger generations, and it is up to my department, the Ain, since it is the students of Lamartine High School in Belley who brought this subject to my attention. To reduce the number of animals used for experimental purposes, alternative methods exist and must be applied. We can be pleased in France that the third paragraph of Article 48 of the Research Programming Act 2021-2030 provides for a scientific centre dedicated to the principle of 3R – replacement, reduction, refinement – that is to say, the improvement of the welfare of the animals used. This is a real step forward, but the text is unclear, in particular on governance and the resources allocated, as well as on the nature and ambition of the objectives. So these are my two questions. What means will they be committed to supporting the development of animal-free research methods and promoting the 3R principle? Furthermore, will non-governmental organizations (NGOs) be involved in the design of the French strategy for the development of alternative methods for the replacement of animals used for scientific purposes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u52	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u53	In spite of animal-free research methods and the promotion of the 3R principle, you mentioned the increasing number of animals used for scientific purposes. Good news, in fact, in recent years we have seen an inflection in this development. The curve reversed, to use a known expression, albeit a little connoted. In 2020, 27,000 uses of animals for education or training were registered. So we came back below the 2015 figure of 28000, after reaching 41000 uses in 2018. As you can see, the trend is encouraging. Similarly, for all areas of use of animals for scientific purposes, and not only for education and training, which represent more marginal numbers, we now see a decrease: the number of uses of animals has increased from 1.9 million in 2015 to 1.650 million in 2020. This reflects the efforts made in France to reduce the number of animals used for scientific purposes. Our efforts are beginning to bear fruit! As you pointed out, the Research Programming Act 2021-2030 provided, through an amendment adopted by the National Assembly at the initiative of Fannette Charvier, for the creation of a centre dedicated to the application of the 3R principle. The centre was established in September 2021 and already has a first commitment from the National Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM) and the National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), mandated for its creation. Work is continuing with the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation to finalize the Centre's roadmap and to clarify its tasks and resources. The NGOs concerned will be fully involved in the operation of the centre, providing it with their expertise and participating in the formulation of its main strategic directions. These are the elements that I wanted to provide in response to your legitimate concern, Madam Member, and that of the young people at Lamartine High School in Belley.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u54	The floor is open to Mr. Pierre Vatin, to put his question, No. 1584, concerning the mediated meeting points of the Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u55	My question is to Mr. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. When the Family Court has made a decision to allow access by parents-children or grandparents-grandchildren to families torn apart by life, this right is exercised in dedicated parent-child meeting spaces, run by associations approved by the State. In 2019, in the Oise, the spaces of Creil and Senlis closed due to lack of funding. Only two sites, in Compiègne and Beauvais, continued in a department with 850,000 inhabitants. It can therefore only be seen that waiting times for a publicised reception have increased. Thus, in the Oise, it takes almost a year to get a first appointment. It is very long for a child who, during this time, cannot meet his or her parent. This situation is only partly due to the confinements due to covid-19. It is mainly due to the fact that the number of court decisions has exploded. In spite of all the efforts of the associations, which I would like to thank for their total commitment, it is therefore necessary to wait ten to twelve months, as I said, to get a first publicised appointment in the Oise. The following appointments are limited to two meetings of one hour per month. Justice must therefore adapt, since the range of measures available to family judges is effectively reduced to the detriment of children, their parents and grandparents. In 2019, to contain longer waiting times for mediated meeting spaces, the Ministry of Justice had allocated less than 10000 euros per department per year. This remains insufficient to supplement the payments made to these associations by the National Fund for Family Allowances (CNAF). As a result, the associations sound the alarm bell. In view of the suffering of the children, do you intend to allocate additional funding to the associations managing the parent-child meeting spaces?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u56	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u57	The Ministry of Justice supports meeting spaces, which are somewhat separate from mediated meeting points. The latter are used in educational assistance measures, which are financed mainly by the child protection and the department's jurisdiction. Meeting spaces for the implementation of visiting rights ordered by a family judge are essential tools for maintaining family ties. We have increased the resources dedicated to associations working in this field: the appropriations allocated for this purpose by the Ministry of Justice have increased from 3.2 entered in the finance law in 2018 to 6.8 million euros for 2022. So they doubled. In addition, the amount of the service provided by CNAF covers 60 per cent of the operating costs of the services, compared with 30 per cent previously. So there is progress. Progress is very real in terms of the resources allocated to associations in your department. For example, the AEM – an investigation and mediation association – has benefited from a substantial increase in the allocation allocated by the Ministry of Justice, which has increased from about 33000 euros in 2018 to 57000 euros in 2020, an increase of more than 70%. The association France Victimes 60, which manages the meeting space of Beauvais, has also seen its grant increase, from 20,000 to 34,000 euros. Reducing waiting times in the meeting space is, and remains, a priority of the Ministry of Justice. I understand the excitement of the delays that you're talking about. The Court of Appeal of Amiens did not fail to call the attention of the Ministry of Justice, on the saturation of the meeting spaces of the department of Oise, aggravated by the decision of the AEM, despite the increase of its subsidies, to close its space meets in Creil in order to centralize its activity in Compiègne. The solution sought by the Court of Appeal is the creation of a new meeting space in Creil, entrusted to another association. You should be aware, honourable Member, that the Ministry of Justice fully supports this approach and your wishes in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u58	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u59	I will follow this closely and I trust that families will find an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u60	I welcome the arrival of the Deputy Minister for Citizenship. Mrs Myriane Houplain has the floor to put her question, No. 1596, on insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u61	My question is for the Minister of the Interior. Our compatriots are suffering. In particular, they suffer from the explosion of insecurity. This insecurity, which is not a feeling, develops everywhere. Our cities, our villages, even those that have so far been relatively spared by this galloping insecurity, are now the daily scene of settlement of accounts, thefts, burglaries, deliberate degradations, attacks on the physical integrity of people. These acts, which some may call modestly "incivilities", are in fact real acts of delinquency or even crime, which must be treated with the greatest severity and firmness. The French are certainly resilient, but they can't. Anger, often mixed with deep despair, is emerging in many places. The security forces – gendarmerie, national police, municipal police – are doing their utmost to try to curb this flood of crime at best. It must be admitted that they are not sufficiently supported in their mission, although the French have a majority of confidence in the police and gendarmerie. Given the violence they are too often victims of, it is imperative that we finally establish a presumption of self-defence for our security forces. However, in order to effectively combat the scourge of crime, sufficient staff must be present. In my constituency of Pas-de-Calais, these numbers are unfortunately declining dangerously. In the municipality of Beuvry of which I am elected, the last police station closed its doors in 2019. From now on, the inhabitants, faced with a resurgence of crime, feel destitute and abandoned. There is now an urgent need for action. What do you intend to do to bring the state and public order back into our communes by creating community security? Our compatriots must regain the security to which they legitimately have the right and without which no freedom can really exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u62	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u63	Madam Member, I am responding to your very legitimate question, as are the expectations of the French, in place of the Minister of the Interior who was unable to be present this morning. The Government and its majority have made security a priority issue: we are acting firmly, everywhere in the Republic's territories, mobilizing all the levers, from prevention to repression. Since 2017, increased and modernised capacities, strengthened legal tools and adapted modes of action enable law enforcement to be even more effective. We have also given new impetus to cooperation with local elected officials, in proximity and dialogue, and with all actors in the territories. We are acting by developing local justice and strengthening its capacity, for there cannot be an effective security policy without a criminal response that is as rapid and as systematic as possible. This policy is based on massive, concrete, measurable means, with appropriations voted here, up 1.7 billion euros since 2017 and 1.5 billion for the Ministry of the Interior alone for 2022. If our action is successful, no one would think of denying violence in society. To deal with this, the adoption of the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security will lead to further progress. At the end of the Beauvau de la sécurité, the President of the Republic also presented a comprehensive strategy to build the police and gendarmerie in future years, adapted to the new challenges, in particular on the basis of a law of programming which will be presented next year by the Minister of the Interior. The President of the Republic has in particular reaffirmed our willingness to deploy more "blue" on the ground: it is an expectation of our fellow citizens and local elected officials. The commitment to recruit an additional 10,000 police officers and gendarmes will be maintained: posts have already been created and this strengthening of the capacity will conclude with the recent exits from law enforcement schools. In addition, a genuine national police operational reserve will be established. This exceptional effort allows us to deploy more forces on the ground. In the first seven months of 2021, the presence on the highway increased by 10% and, within 10 years, the number of police officers and gendarmes on the highway will have doubled. I will end by welcoming the work done on a daily basis by our police officers and gendarmes, with courage and professionalism. In the situation you have described, honourable Member, knowing the risks they face, we are making every effort to give them the means to carry out their tasks effectively and to better guarantee the authority of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u64	Mrs Myriane Houplain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u65	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your welcome answer. I know how effective police services are, but the problem is the lack of police. I was telling you about my municipality in Beuvry. It is close to Bethune where law enforcement forces are very often obliged to intervene in Calais: there is only an extremely small number of people there, which does not allow for a proper response to calls in case of violence. It's a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u66	Mr Vincent Ledoux, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1561, concerning aid for voluntary return.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u67	The great challenge of the times is to better integrate France into globalization in order to make the most of it. Thus, we must direct migration in a way that is favourable to our country and to the countries of origin of migrants. In this context, financially effective return aid schemes – as the Court of Auditors has demonstrated on many occasions – and with a success rate of 80%, however, remain poorly known and misperceived. Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, do you consider it appropriate to value them in order to make them a true accompaniment to resettlement and reintegration? I also propose to extend them to foreigners in a regular situation, and to better integrate this competence into the scope of the prefects, but also to accompany the business projects of "repatriates" in their countries of family origin, which could be those on the list of official development assistance. This is a measure expected by the African diasporas before which I was still at the University of Lille this weekend. For many precarious workers whom I have been able to meet in Malian or Senegalese homes, such a mechanism would be an opportunity and opportunity for a new professional project, creating value and jobs in the countries of origin. This requires involving French companies active in Africa, for example by setting quotas for the recruitment of resettled workers. On this point, a more fluid dialogue is needed between the State services responsible for external trade, Business France and the Agence française de développement. There is also a need to invest heavily in the promotion and communication of the scheme, including by highlighting successful relocations. Finally, what do you think of the idea of experimenting, in project territories, with foreign homes? It would make available information on the arrangements for integration into French society, language and work, as well as aid for return to the country, highlighting atypical paths and successes. In any category, could foreigners be more easily linked to companies in the busy sectors? This better territorial management could also give a little more coherence to the interventions of the many associations which work tirelessly in support of migrants and foreigners, in the areas of social assistance, listening and care, in order to avoid the fragmentation of the arrangements, but also to better assess the results and the adequacy of public funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u68	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u69	I agree with you, Mr President, that many mechanisms exist to support migrants and help them integrate, but they are sometimes unknown, require a lot of administrative action and are so diverse that it is sometimes difficult for those concerned to take action. I also agree on the question of language. Like work, this is a fundamental element for integration. I recall that we have increased the number of hours of French courses, but this question requires further analysis. We are thinking about whether a volume of six hundred hours is sufficient. The local elected representatives and the associations working on the subject tell us that beyond theoretical courses, the most useful is the inclusion and participation in activities, which I saw during a recent trip with DIAIR – the interministerial delegate for the reception and integration of refugees – to people coming in particular from Afghanistan. In 2015, France introduced a new comprehensive scheme to support return and reintegration, which could include both return aid, in order to improve the effectiveness of the return policy, as well as diversified reintegration aid contributing to sustainable resettlement and worthy of the persons concerned in their country of return. As you can see, aid for return represents a modest cost to public finances, while ensuring guarantees of sustainability and dignity for these people, far superior to forced return. However, reintegration assistance is a separate scheme from return assistance, with a well-developed pilotage, including in the country of origin. This is sometimes difficult, but it certainly contributes to the development of areas of origin through job creation, the strengthening of the economic fabric, the development of entrepreneurship and the involvement of the accompanying civil society. In any case, that is what the experts on this subject are telling us. As from the second half of 2022, it must be brought to power and harmonised with the other Member States of the European Union, with the increased involvement of the FRONTEX agency – the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. This subject will be discussed at a European conference to be held next June in Paris. As regards the extension of the scheme to include foreigners in a regular situation, I would like to point out that aid for return and reintegration is a complementary tool to the so-called policy of expulsion. If its extension to other audiences is not excluded, it must be considered. Full attention must be paid to the fact that it respects the rights of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u70	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u71	Thank you for your answer. If these devices are good, we need to communicate even better and more, perhaps explaining that they have the virtue of allowing a rebound, a relocation. The term "deportation" does not seem appropriate to me because it suggests a constraint. However, this system gives the possibility to bounce back, create employment for oneself and for his family. According to my department's prefect, the recovery plan worked because it had been territorialized. Our country's migration policies will succeed if they are further territorialized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u72	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde to put forward his question, No. 1595, concerning appointments in the prefecture in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u73	Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties faced by the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis in obtaining an appointment in the prefecture of their department in order to assert their rights there. Indeed, in order to avoid the long queues on the prefecture court, which we have known for decades, it was decided to dematerialize the appointment procedure – for example to renew his residence permit or to request his naturalization. It is therefore no longer possible to make an appointment by telephone or directly on site. Residents wishing to apply for, renew or apply for a residence permit must have digital access to make an online appointment. However, in the absence of a sufficient number of slots available, the inhabitants are forced to increase the number of connections on the prefecture's website until a proposal for an appointment appears. In fact, it sometimes takes long weeks – not to say long months – for a resident to get an appointment and assert his or her rights. Many of my interventions in the prefecture have the sole purpose of obtaining an appointment for residents who have rights but cannot access them. I had also drawn the attention of the Defender of Rights to this issue on 4 February. Of course, this situation has many repercussions. First, online dating requests are a real barrier for people with poor French skills or disabilities, but also for those who do not have sufficient computer skills or the Internet connection required. In addition to the online procedure, it is therefore necessary to find another solution to allow them to get an appointment. Secondly, a person seeking, for example, a residence permit or a renewal of the residence permit, and failing to obtain an appointment in order to apply for regularisation, will not be able to benefit from a dwelling or even to work or access certain social benefits to which he or she is entitled. Some will risk arrest or even deportation even though their situation would normally allow them to be granted a residence permit. How many of those who see their residence permit expire do not manage to access the prefecture to have it renewed? Similarly, people wishing to become French citizens sometimes have to wait for many months, not to see their steps completed, but simply to file their files. It goes without saying that the signal sent to those who wish to embrace French nationality is not worthy of our country. Moreover, these situations arouse the interest of ill-intentioned individuals, such as sleep merchants or some employers, who, fully aware of the fragility of these people who cannot assert their rights, do not hesitate to exploit their distress in order to profit from it. Finally, rumours about the existence of shops and web pages that allow the illegality of obtaining appointments online – it consists in making an appointment and then selling it – spread among the public servants, which greatly affects the image of our country and our administration. I know that this situation is obviously not attributable to the agents of the prefecture, forced to work with the means – too small in the face of the influx of demands – that they have at their disposal. What measures does the Government intend to take to ensure that there are sufficient staff available to deal with the flow of requests, but also to find a solution to this breach of equality, between those who have an Internet connection and knowledge of our language and others?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u74	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u75	The immigration and integration services of the prefectures of Île-de-France, in particular that of the Seine-Saint-Denis, deal with a very large volume of applications for titles – as you know and have described very well. For the departments of the small crown, 1400 to 2500 users are welcomed every day. The introduction of an appointment via the Internet – designed to take account of these flows and avoid the creation of the queues that you have mentioned – has already made it possible to improve the reception conditions: from now on, the user presents himself about a quarter of an hour before his appointment and no longer every morning at the opening time – sometimes even the night before, you know better than another. In addition, several technical devices have been created to limit the risk of online dating. I answered a question from your colleague Albane Gaillot on this subject last week. These devices have shown their effectiveness: nearly 170 million illicit or malicious connections have been identified and thwarted since June 2020. On the other hand, it is true that these devices are inoperative to combat the manual fraud committed by natural persons, who are paid to preempt and then pay appointments. A total of 330000 euros have been invested to strengthen technical infrastructure, carry out maintenance, provide software support and meet demand overload. I deeply believe that improving the service provided to foreign users requires, first and foremost, shorter processing times for initial applications and renewals of residence permits. The Ministry has undertaken two actions: on the one hand, the reinforcement of the workforce of foreign services, which has increased by 1,422 full-time equivalents, an increase of 56% over the last 10 years, and a plan to recruit individual contractors, with an additional 860 contractors between 2017 and 2021, and 570 between 2022 and 2024; on the other hand, the modernisation – simplify, secure, dematerialize – of the procedures for applying for a residence permit thanks to the deployment of the ANEF project, digital administration for foreigners in France. In conclusion, I welcome the work of the officers in the prefecture, of which we know how difficult and well carried out it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u76	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u77	Of course, the means are strengthened – they must still be strengthened. However, I would like to draw your attention to two particular points which have not been answered by you. First of all, a catch-up rope is needed for people who do not have digital access. It is also intended for registration in a vaccination centre: those who are unable to connect to Doctolib can dial a telephone number. In the absence of such an alternative solution, you leave these people deprived or captured by associations whose practices have sometimes been condemned by the ministry. Secondly, with regard to naturalization, a person who wishes to acquire French nationality cannot be asked to wait several months to file a file. We have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u78	The next speaker is Mr Pierre Vatin, alternate Mr Damien Abad, to put the question, No. 1585, on subcontractors in the automobile industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u79	I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Damien Abad, who has been prevented. The crisis of the covid-19 has shown us: France has no future without factories. An economy without industry is a declining economy, a country in the process of downgrading and the French are in the process of impoverishment. Above all, it is a country that loses control of its destiny, which puts itself in the hands of foreign powers, which depends on the goodwill of others for its supplies. This is the case in the automotive sector, and particularly in its subcontractors, now facing serious difficulties. As chain shutdowns increase, supplies of raw materials and semiconductors become increasingly difficult, energy prices explode and a new wave of covid -19 places great uncertainty on our economy, car subcontracting is today the great forgotten of government aid policy, despite its status as an essential link in the industry. In the face of these challenges, the first duty of the State is to ensure a real balance in contractual relations between customers and suppliers, so that the unequal balance of power does not turn into abuse. The second is to strengthen the liquidity of subcontractors by including them, like manufacturers, among the beneficiaries of aid to combat the rise in electricity prices. In Ain, the plastic industry, the Plastics valley of Oyonnax, polymer transformers, or small family structures, are at risk of never receiving government aid and are therefore threatened with extinction. Deputy Minister, the collapse of subcontractors in the automotive sector threatens hundreds of thousands of jobs. What concrete measures do you intend to take to avoid the worst?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u80	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u81	The automotive industry is experiencing the effects of the health crisis and the shift to electric powertrains, which have considerably reduced the level of activity of the companies in the sector. But it is also facing profound technological changes that require massive investments to enable it to better adapt to the emergence of electrical, connected and autonomous mobility. Aware of these challenges, the Government has taken strong action since the beginning of the quinquennium to support the diversification of investment by automotive subcontractors. For example, between 2017 and 2019, we put in place several measures to anticipate the evolution of skills and employment needs, in connection with the decline of diesel. I am thinking of the diesel plan to support employees and the conversion of the sector, of the industrial projects of the future that allow to support diversification, or of the first support and advisory devices, in conjunction with the PFA, the automotive platform, which allow to accompany companies heavily affected by the drop in diesel. In May 2020, in order to deal with the health crisis, we announced a €8 billion car plan, including the creation of a modernisation investment support fund from CORAM, the car research and mobility steering committee, to support investments in R&amp;D, research and development, as well as the Car Future 2 fund, to strengthen the own funds of companies in the sector and contribute to consolidation projects. The plastic industry, taken in the broad sense and including suppliers of processing materials and equipment as well as recyclers, accounts for 65 billion euros in turnover and employs 230,000 employees in 5000 companies in 2021. In view of the industrial importance it represents in the French landscape, we have wanted to provide substantial aid to this sector, which needs to be mobilised very strongly to meet the challenges of supply. Thus, in order to develop an operational recycling industry and to create a resilient contribution on French soil, the Government has mobilised, through the France Recovery Plan, 220 million euros across the entire value chain – sorting, regeneration plant, plastic industry. We published a call for projects funded on the development of innovative solutions and the President of the Republic declared, on 12 October 2021, that, within the framework of the France 2030 plan, the security of supply was the first condition for the success of the objectives of this investment plan of the future. In this regard, work is under way to better define the measures relating to the supply and incorporation of plastics and to the supply of materials with low environmental impact and substitution for plastics. I hope I have answered your question and I hope that your colleague is not too ill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u82	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u83	As you know, we will remain particularly vigilant and attentive about these promises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u84	The floor is open to Ms. Sophie Mette, to raise her question, No. 1564, on the subject of Afghan cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u85	First of all, Madam Minister of Culture, we are delighted that you are back in Hexagon. This year, in a previous oral question without debate, I asked you about the future of Europe's culture, with a view to the French presidency of the European Union. As this is now imminent, I would like to ask you again this time about a subject on which France should, in my view, mobilise the forces of the European Union. This summer, as everyone knows, the Taliban regained power in Afghanistan. In November 2021, the humanitarian crisis reached a critical level. France immediately committed itself to defending those who worked for her and the artists. What about those who protect Afghanistan's rich cultural heritage? Cultural professionals have been working for more than two decades to re-establish the country's culture, from researchers to students, museum staff and archaeologists. Over the years, for example, the superb minaret of Djam, classified at UNESCO, has been preserved only thanks to their efforts. Women and men who have worked to protect, restore or even understand cultural works in Afghanistan have since been threatened with death. The Taliban, like the Islamic State in its time, sometimes wreak havoc when historical and cultural representations do not suit them. The Afghan heritage, whether material or the numerous sites of the Bronze Age, or immaterial such as the ghazal song, contains elements necessary for the cohesion of the nation. Afghan society is plural, both religiously and tribally. Yet nothing shows as well the unity and complexity of a history and a culture as the heritage. It is necessary for the construction of an open society, ready to move forward. Michelle Bachelet, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, herself recognized the humanitarian value of these activities, as well as the right to protection of cultural workers during conflicts. Westerners have revealed disagreements and suffered heavy military failures in Afghanistan. The management of the crisis linked to the arrival of the Taliban reveals new ones. France and Europe, after millennia of civilisation and wars, know, perhaps better than anyone else, the value of their heritage. Can't culture and heritage protection lead Europe to act in a united way? Will France include Afghan cultural heritage professionals in its list of priority repatriations? Have some of them already taken place and, if so, how is the follow-up of the persons concerned ensured? Finally, will France use its presidency of the Council of the European Union to encourage Europe to take more action to defend its heritage, in Afghanistan and wherever it is threatened?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u86	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u87	Your question is particularly timely. The Ministry of Culture and, beyond it, the Government as a whole pay particular attention to the situation of Afghan artists and the protection of Afghanistan's heritage. As soon as the Taliban seized Kabul, I asked my administration to set up a crisis cell and mobilize to support the welcoming of personalities from the cultural world, including those who protect Afghanistan's cultural heritage: researchers, students, museum staff and archaeologists. The teams of my Ministry have established and consolidated a list of approximately 700 cultural personalities and journalists to be secured, transmitted daily to the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. Many have been among the 2600 people evacuated by France, but their identification remains very difficult, due to the large number of families involved. The list is continuously kept up to date, as the alerts are sent to us. With regard to the accompaniment of the persons identified, the Ministry finances several structures, including the artist-in-exile workshop and the Cité internationale des arts, and has paid a specific grant to the programme for the emergency reception of scientists in exile of the Collège de France. Nearly 500,000 euros were mobilised in total. The Ministry will continue its efforts – you can be assured – to welcome Afghan heritage professionals into public structures. I am thinking, for example, of the National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research (INRAP) for archaeologists. In addition, numerous awareness-raising activities will be carried out in 2022, including the Guimet Museum and the Louvre Museum, on the occasion of the centenary of the creation of the French Archaeological Delegation in Afghanistan (DAFA). This important issue was also the subject of discussions with my European counterparts during the orientation debate on cultural heritage held at the Council of the European Union on culture on 30 November to ensure a real common mobilisation at European level. During this meeting, which was the occasion for the passing of a witness between the Slovenian President of the Council and myself, all ministers of culture referred to Afghanistan and expressed their common will to mobilize. We will of course relay this ambition during the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u88	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 1589, on the health pass in libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u89	We love public libraries and those who work there. They are France's first cultural network. These are community facilities par excellence, open to all, whose social function often goes far beyond simple access to books, especially in rural areas such as my department, the Ardèche, which has no fewer than 220 libraries elevating the territory. These libraries, however modest they may be, allow their users to be welcomed, listened to, guided, supervised and, in a way, cared for. They are the place where one does one's homework when one does not enjoy good conditions to do them at home, where one finds an internet connection, where some publics take refuge. For the past four months, however, access to libraries has been subject to the presentation of a sanitary pass. Since 30 September this obligation extends to minors, from 12 years old: librarians are asked to refuse entry to children aged 12 and a half, 13 or 14 years old, who do not have a pass and especially who sometimes have nowhere to do their homework, while their parents can walk without any restrictions in any commercial space. Since this summer, professional and volunteer disconnections have been increasing everywhere in France to denounce this situation. The list of libraries on strike is growing day by day and municipalities have even taken the initiative to circumvent the law by exempting minors from the health pass. You know better than anyone: the situation is alarming. According to a survey commissioned by the Government, one in two French citizens has not visited a cultural place since the introduction of the health pass, compared to 88 per cent before the epidemic. You have already exempted university libraries, the Bibliothèque nationale de France (BNF) and the Bibliothèque publique d'information (BPI) from the health pass, because they are study and research frameworks. But country libraries are also useful and valuable places. It seems to me that it is possible to treat access to libraries differently and to remove these restrictions which, in particular, penalize children, while preserving, of course, the necessary health security measures. Host gauges are often presented as the most relevant solution. They respect the prudence encouraged yesterday by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Above all, they allow for rotations without excluding anyone and would avoid leaving children at the doors of libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u90	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u91	Before I answer you, honourable Member, I advise you, as a precautionary measure, to wear your mask on the nose, not just on the mouth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u92	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u93	You repositioned it after your surgery, but you have to be careful when you express yourself, because it is by speaking that you are most likely to project the coronavirus. To answer your question, I would like to remind you, as you yourself have done, that libraries constitute the first public cultural equipment of locality in France, both in number – 16,000 establishments – and in terms of the size and diversity of the audiences welcomed, since they have about 12 million users. This quinquennium, I would like to point out, will have been marked by a proactive policy of support for these institutions. Of course, I am thinking of Erik Orsenna's and Noël Corbin's report and of the Library Plan that followed him, of the significant funds allocated to them as part of the recovery plan, but also of the Government's full support for Senator Sylvie Robert's bill, which will, by the end of this year, allow for the essential role of libraries in the heritage code. It is true that they have been subjected to the sanitary pass since 9 August 2021, like all cultural establishments receiving from the public – cinemas, museums, theatres. The health pass allowed to accompany the recovery – especially cultural places – and is intended to protect the French. This rule applies to all libraries and documentation centres, with the two exceptions you mentioned: academic and specialized libraries, as well as BNF and BPI, except for exhibitions or cultural events they organize; and persons accessing these institutions for professional or research purposes. These two exceptions stem from the approach taken with regard to university libraries, which are an integral part of the system applicable to higher education, since the health pass does not apply to the latter. In view of the public of the BNF, which is largely made up of students, teachers and researchers, and of the BPI, it has been decided to apply the same derogation regime as that of university libraries. The application of the sanitary pass to libraries is therefore the same as for all other places of culture, without exception. We know the health context. We are witnessing the outbreak of the fifth epidemic wave. We find that younger and younger people are affected by covid-19 and sometimes leave their lives there. In view of this situation, which is worsening every day, it is not a matter of relaxing the effort. I therefore confirm that the application of the health pass to cultural places remains a necessity. In fact, I believe that the elected officials who free themselves from the health regulations and the law pose a danger to our fellow citizens. I do, however, agree with you: of course, as soon as we can, we will be looking at the possibilities of adjusting the regime applicable to libraries – but frankly, this is not the time to relax our efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u94	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, to put his question, No. 1593, on the calculation of the retirement of self-entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u95	My question was to the minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, but I am pleased that Mr Pietraszewski is here to answer it: it concerns his area of choice, since it concerns the calculation of the retirement of self-entrepreneurs. During periods of confinement and restrictions, many self-entrepreneurs found themselves unable to work – like, unfortunately, many companies. They have benefited from the Solidarity Fund, but this support does not allow them to validate the retirement quarters. Indeed, if the exemption from contributions results in rights, because it is compensated by the State, the financial aid, mainly provided by the Council for the Social Protection of Self-Employed Workers (CPSTI) and the Solidarity Fund, has not been subject to contributions and has therefore not been eligible for retirement or the acquisition of quarters. This situation can result in losses and penalize self-employed entrepreneurs. Very often, they use this status to complete their careers and retire with a normal number of quarters and an acceptable level of retirement. What measures could be taken to compensate for the loss of quarters, thus income at the time of retirement, that they suffered?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u96	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u97	You are well aware of this area and have set out the terms of the debate. Alain Griset, whose role you rightly stress with very small enterprises (SME) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and I myself have dealt with this issue and have had the opportunity to ask you, as well as the entire national representation, during the examination of the Social Security Financing Bill (SSP). I would point out that micro-entrepreneurs, unlike self-employed persons subject to the so-called "real" scheme, are not subject to the minimum contribution which makes it possible to secure the acquisition of at least three quarters a year. It was therefore necessary to change the common law, under which micro-entrepreneurs in the sectors concerned by the health measures, having suffered a significant reduction in their income from activity, might no longer contribute enough to acquire the same number of quarters as before for their retirement and therefore should have worked longer to reach the full rate. You also pointed out that some of them were opting for this activity at the end of their career, certainly to change their career horizon, but also to supplement their income and get all their pension rights. Alain Griset and I have identified this problem and obviously wanted to protect all the independents concerned, whether they are subject to the minimum contribution or to the status of self-entrepreneur. Article 107 of the Law on the financing of social security for 2022, adopted here on 22 November, provides for an exceptional measure of protection: specifically, for self-employed persons eligible for solidarity fund aid, the number of quarters validated for the years 2020 and 2021 will be equivalent to the average of the quarters validated for the previous three years. To provide you with a complete answer, artisans and traders, including micro-entrepreneurs, as well as artists authors and liberal professionals, such as ski instructors or lecturers, will be covered. I would like to stress the high level of protection offered: in 2020 alone, more than 190,000 people should benefit from this scheme. Micro-entrepreneurs, because of the specificities that you have recalled, will be the main beneficiaries, since nearly 120,000 people will be granted up to four annual quarters. Finally, it should be noted that this protection will be financed by the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV), thus by national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u98	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u99	Thank you for your answer to this question, which concerns a relatively large number of professionals who, as we have both pointed out, often need this activity to complete their careers. Given the precision you have brought, we now have a complete system: self-entrepreneurs have been supported during the crisis, which is very positive, and will not be abandoned at the time of calculating their retirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u100	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to put her question, No. 1587, concerning the communication of data between the USSRAF and the Employment Centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u101	As you know, our fellow citizens are alerting us almost daily about the administrative difficulties they face. Sometimes the situation they are going through reveals a legal vacuum or an administrative aberration. A few weeks ago, a resident of Angerville-l'Orcher, Seine-Maritime, raised a hare of competition. Let me tell you about the journey of the one we will call Ulysse K., employed by one of our angervillia fellow landscape gardeners. Our good Ulysses, an employee of private employer, decides to cease his activity and wishes to assert his rights to unemployment. He is obviously close to Pôle Emploi, who asks him for his employer's certificate... But Ulysse does not have one, but nineteen private employers; Each of them must then go to the Pôle emploi site, create an employer account, have it certified, wait for the procedure to be validated, then it must enter computerically all the hours worked and the days not worked each month since the beginning of the activity! These data have already been entered monthly on the website of the Universal Service Employment Cheque. The concern is that the CESU site is incompatible with the Pôle emploi website! You understand the following: how will the unconnected elderly people who have employed Mr. Ulysse K. do? In response, Pôle Emploi's advisor informed Pôle Emploi that these older people had to "get by" in her words to connect and do these things, adding: "You have to live with your time." As a result, my electoral district employee moved to Pôle Emploi where she was told: "The person can also call employer service 3995 File 2, which should be able to transmit an employer certificate and assist the person in the process. The person can also go to the nearest France Services house to be helped in his or her efforts. Our fellow employer angervillais therefore presented himself to the nearest France Services welcome, where he was explained that the agents are there to turn on the computers "when they walk" on the right sites and that is all; It is up to the user to enter his data, which can be complex, starting with the date of all of Ulysses' work stoppages – how can he know them all? – his real salary, the reason for breaking up, etc. And all nineteen times for the nineteen employers of Ulysses K.! In the latest news, Ulysse K. has returned several times to Pôle emploi. The employees kindly proposed a paper model of the said employer certificate, indicating the boxes that their employers had to fill out on their computer. The trouble is that some of the paper certification options, including termination of employment contracts, no longer appear on the computer certificate, and Pôle emploi did not know that. For the time being, only five out of nineteen employers have started to complete the certificate. None has yet been fully validated by Pôle Emploi. I could continue for a long time to describe this journey, halfway between Homer and Kafka. Unfortunately, time is counted here... Unfortunately, his will be even longer before he receives the unemployment benefits to which he is entitled!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u102	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families, who will enlighten us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u103	I'll try anyway, Mr. President. The Labour Code provides that every employer shall issue to his employee, at the end of the employment contract, the documents which will enable him to exercise his rights relating to unemployment insurance. The procedure is necessary to enable the employee to assert his rights to fair access to a replacement income as a person seeking employment. This is part of the employer's obligations in return for the work that has been provided. At present, there are no automated procedures that would allow data to be shared between the CESU National Centre and Pôle Emploi for the specific case of employees of individual employers. The employer's action is therefore still necessary. However, I would like to draw your attention to two points: on the one hand, the attestation to be completed for individual employers on the website of Pôle Emploi is already a simplified version compared to the version of common law; On the other hand, most of the information requested on this form can be easily found – for nursery assistants, for example, the USSRAF has already set up a dedicated accompaniment from a specific website that guides the employer and facilitates each of the stages of the end of the contract. The system still needs to be improved overall and that is why the USSRAF will set up in 2022 a declaration of the purpose of contracts for users of the CESU and Pajemploi services which will integrate other services, such as the calculation of the allowances due for the purposes of employment contracts or the balance of any account. This new offer complements future developments as of next year. Thus, employers will benefit from the immediate advance of their tax credit from the CESU when using personal services. The Government's longer-term objective is to pre-teach employers' certificates, particularly with regard to the history of wages paid. It will then be sufficient for the individual to validate them. As you can see, simplification in many areas of public action and in the relationship our fellow citizens have with their administrations is an objective that remains at the heart of the Government's work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u104	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor to put her question, No. 1571, on the health of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u105	In October, food and hygiene distributions resumed on the campus of Orléans; Nearly four hundred students were present. In total, to date, 1200 students have received at least once a basket, according to the estimates of the association O'SEM – Orléans supports the students of the world. I would like to thank these associations, especially those mobilized in Orléans, in my constituency, who are doing a remarkable job. These distributions were launched during the health crisis to help resourceless students. The confinement is no longer there, but the precarious student is still present. If this precariousness did not suddenly arise with the health crisis, it has made a massive and intolerable phenomenon particularly visible. It is also their health that students with financial difficulties can no longer take care of themselves. The student association ÔCampus reported to me the abandonment of a significant portion of students for financial reasons, health becoming an adjustment variable in expenses. While the health of young people deteriorated significantly during the crisis, the proportion of students reporting having been affected at the psychological, emotional or physical level is even higher than among young people in the general population, with more than 83 per cent being affected. More than a third have given up care since March 2020. Such a situation cannot continue. In an attempt to remedy this, I had tabled an amendment, unfortunately declared inadmissible, to the Social Security Financing Bill, which provided for an experiment inspired by the M'T dentes scheme, which allowed students to have a voucher to go to a doctor at least once without having to advance the costs. Can we imagine the implementation of such a mechanism? Can we propose other innovative measures – I am thinking of organizational transformations in the territories or telemedicine and digital technology – to improve the health of our students?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u106	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u107	University health services, SSUs, have a central role in the student health protection strategy. They carry out preventive measures, in connection with the priority axes defined in the prevention conference, which are the bodies for consultation at university level. The Education Code was amended in 2019 to strengthen, as you know, and to further expand the missions of prevention and health promotion of SSUs. They organize at least one health examination during the course of the student's schooling, which is part of a comprehensive approach to health and well-being, and which is accessible to any student while being given priority to certain categories of students. SSUs can now prescribe contraceptives, nicotine substitution treatments, detect, diagnose and treat sexually transmitted infections in an outpatient setting, or carry out vaccinations. In addition, a derogation from the treatment route for acts and preventive medical consultations carried out in the SSUs has been created. I would add that this service can be chosen as a treating doctor by the student, which allows for better treatment of the acts by the health insurance. In addition, since 2018 young consumer consultations have been deployed which offer a reception, listening, counselling and guidance service, free and confidential, and provided by professionals in addictology, for young people affected by addiction problems and for their entourage: there are just over 500 reception points in the territory. The challenge, I agree with you, is to make these devices better known to the general public and to bring them closer to the needs, in particular to the student populations. It is with this in mind that we have systematized partnerships with colleges and high schools, and that the anti-addiction fund provides financial support for projects that specifically target young people. These positive developments are in the direction of better access for students to accompaniment in health. Because of all the actions already deployed, it does not seem necessary for the Government to initiate the new experiment that you proposed in the framework of the draft law on the financing of social security for next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u108	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry, alternate Mrs Josiane Corneloup, to put his question, No. 1579, on the shortage of general practitioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u109	In territories where the medical supply is low, patients deprived of a referent general practitioner are sentenced to a double penalty: not only do they encounter the worst difficulties in obtaining a consultation with a practitioner, but they are also punished financially since the consultation they have had so much difficulty in obtaining is reimbursed only 30% by social security! How can this very unfair situation be addressed for these men and for these women who are in disarray, a situation which can lead to a break in the continuity of care? In the immediate future, and with a view to fluidizing the management of these patients who were tempted, for lack of alternative solutions, to abandon their treatment or turn to the saturated emergency services, it seems appropriate to extend the exemption granted to the 22000 pharmacies, at the heart of the crisis of covid 19, which allowed them to renew once to twice prescriptions whose validity date had expired. In particular, this solution would help to avoid delays in the management of patients, especially elderly and chronically ill patients. Another interesting avenue would be to amplify the development of telemedicine, be it teleconsultation but also teleexpertise – let's think about teledermatology, the follow-up of wounds – in the underfunded medical areas due to their low attractiveness due to lack of services or numerous retirements of general practitioners or specialists. The return of telemedicine experiments is very favourable. Finally, in the longer term, how can we attract more students to the liberal practice of medicine? According to figures from the National Medical Council, only 35% of interns settle within five years of their first entry in the order. General medicine, for several years, has been regarded as a garage route although, exceptional this year, the majority of the national classifications have decided to choose general medicine! Many general practitioners are ready to take internship students, but medical training takes place mainly in hospital, future physicians are obviously more comfortable with an environment they know. It is therefore imperative that students have more contact with liberal medicine throughout the territories, particularly in the context of multidisciplinary health homes. It is also necessary to agree to pay the trainee's supervision properly, which is not the case today. On all these points, what are the proposals that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health could quickly formulate in order to respond to the great difficulties faced by the inhabitants and to the major problems of our health system? I thank you in advance, Secretary of State, from Mrs Corneloup.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u110	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u111	We need urgent measures, Mr President, you are right, and we also need more structural measures, because you know that the medical demographic situation facing a number of our territories, not only in rural areas but also in dense urban areas, is obviously not today. Structural responses will by definition take some time to materialize, but it is clear that the demographic challenge is great. The number of direct access physicians, both general practitioners and specialists, has been declining steadily since 2010 and is estimated to continue until 2025. This situation, prevailing in some territories, penalizes many French. That is why the Government has made this issue a priority from the beginning of the quinquennium by proposing a panel of solutions very quickly. Because there is no single and immediate response: we need both emergency responses and longer-term structural responses, answers that also take into account – you will join me on this point, I am convinced – local specificities, in a bond of trust with the actors of the territory. It is the dynamic – you see me coming, I think – that underpins the territorial health professional communities (STCPs): recently implemented, they illuminatingly illustrate the innovation capacity that we want to stimulate. Through this system, professionals in the same territory are encouraged to organize among themselves to meet the needs of the population; By enabling the development of the master's degree and by facilitating relations with the hospital and social services, the CPTS lead to improvements in the situation of the territories. The collective efforts must, of course, be continued to speed up the deployment of the CPTS, but I can say that the territories – I am moving there a lot – already have this tool. It is a framework, more than a tool, which seems to realize more and more fully its potential: the CPTS allow the coordinated exercise to develop and the link between city and hospital to strengthen. You also mentioned telemedicine. Teleconsultation has already been integrated into the good practices of the CPTS Core 1 mission. Because of their structuring nature, certain measures we have taken cannot have an immediate effect; That is why we have also made arrangements which we expect to have an impact in the near future. For example – I know that you are following some of these topics carefully and that you know the others – the creation of 4000 positions of medical assistants or the deployment of 400 general practitioners. Finally, you referred to the exemption made to allow pharmacies to renew prescriptions once or twice. It was in fact an exceptional device that had been launched in exceptional circumstances, those of containment linked to the crisis of the covid-19. Such an experiment still needs to be subject to expertise involving all stakeholders, in order to see to what extent it would be appropriate to extend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u112	The floor is open to Mr. Stéphane Viry, to put his question, No. 1582, concerning the "forgotten" employees of the Ségur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u113	Here I am relaying those who are called the "forgotten" of Ségur, a few weeks from the launch of the conference of trades of social and medico-social accompaniment, which will open on 15 January 2022. In the department of Vosges, I have been questioned on several occasions – and I have still been questioned today – by employees in the home help sector and by staff from private social and medical-social organisations. All deplore a lack of improvement in their activity, while they serve the general interest and are still on the front line today in the face of the epidemic of covid -19. As part of the review of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022, I had advocated several proposals to ensure the sustainability of the Ségur's measures in favour of medical professionals in private non-profit health and medical-social institutions, but also to ensure the transposition of Ségur's measures into the private sector. All these proposals were rejected under article 40 of the Constitution, which has been used extensively; I'm sorry. The observation is as follows: the Ségur de la santé introduces a difference in treatment among employees, sometimes within the same establishment, which gives rise to a feeling of misunderstanding, injustice or even anger. Of course, on November 8, the Prime Minister made some adjustments: some caregivers, forgotten about Ségur in July 2020, will eventually benefit from the monthly revalorisation. But the others? What about the others, Secretary of State? The personal accompaniment sector, either at home or in private EHPAD, continues to deteriorate. Staff prefer – and rightly so – to leave this sector for better paid jobs, and how can they be blamed? Wage developments are therefore necessary, but beyond that, there is the capacity of social and medical-social structures to provide assistance to the most vulnerable people, especially the older ones. It is therefore necessary and even urgent to upgrade all the professions connected with the accompaniment of persons; Although local institutional actors are regularly questioned, as is the case with the Government itself, I can only note the important collateral effects of Ségur's measures on the attractiveness of care and accompaniment professions, particularly at home and in adapted structures. What measures does the Government finally intend to take to enable the "forgotten" of the Ségur to be revalued, and a better recognition of the social and medico-social sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u114	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u115	In fact, in recent months, there has been a demonstration of the multiplicity of statutes, employers and financiers, sometimes within the same sector and institution. It is not just a feeling: it reflects the reality of the break-up that affects these different professions and contributes to the difficulties encountered by social and medico-social professionals. That is why the Government has taken strong steps to better recognize their commitment. You mentioned a few milestones. In the continuation of the mission entrusted to Michel Laforcade, a first agreement was signed on 11 February to upgrade all non-medical staff in social and medical-social institutions attached to public institutions or to EHPADs in the hospital service. At the request of the Government, Michel Laforcade then continued discussions with trade union organizations with regard to professionals in the autonomous public medical and social institutions, where, inter alia, medical assistants are employed in the territorial civil service. As you know, this work resulted in a new protocol which was signed on 28 May and which extends the benefit of the indexary treatment supplement to all the educational and social care workers, holders and contractors, of these structures financed for all or part by the health insurance. The care auxiliaries of the territorial civil service are therefore well integrated into the measure and they benefit fully from the upgrading since 1 October 2021. As regards the private sector, the second method agreement signed on the same day will extend the benefit of the basic measure to the same professionals and establishments as from 1 January 2022. You also recalled, the Prime Minister announced at the beginning of November a salary increase for 20,000 caregivers in the field of disability; It was essential and we are of course aware of the legitimate expectations that it has created in other professional categories – you mentioned some of them. In the case of other sectors, any possible upgrading must also – and of course – be the subject of an in-depth discussion with the departmental councils, on which these policies depend. The agreements signed at the end of the negotiations led by the Laforcade mission provided for the holding of a multi-stakeholder conference involving all financiers. At the beginning of your speech, you pointed out that the Prime Minister had announced the holding of a conference on the social and medico-social professions, which will indeed open on 15 January. I was in Bourg-en-Bresse last weekend for the Assemblée des départements de France (ADF); I had the opportunity to discuss this issue with many departmental presidents and the Prime Minister also mentioned it in his speech, after having discussed it with President Sauvadet. Be convinced, however, that with regard to the medical, social and social field – even more so for the latter, as far as I am concerned – the Government remains fully mobilized and continues to work to find solutions to the expectations of the various professionals concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u116	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No. 1590, on home help in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u117	According to INSEE, our country could have 4 million people over 60 years of age losing their autonomy by 2050. Home accompaniment requests continue to increase and the sector is experiencing serious difficulties, as you know. Home helpers are part of this first line which has been at the front throughout the health crisis, including during the various confinements. They did not spare their efforts and this strongly recalled the importance of home care for people who have lost their autonomy or have chronic diseases. While the crisis has worsened the working conditions of rural home help professionals (RDAs), the difficulties they face are structural. While it is a priority for families, it is becoming increasingly difficult to keep people in need at home because of a lack of staff. Some care, however essential, cannot be performed; MRAD stakeholders are not empowered to provide care, while Liberal nurses and SSIADs – home nursing services – are understaffed, which compromises home care. In addition to these difficulties, there are well-known difficulties related to the lack of statutory and financial recognition, as well as the increasing burden of administrative and management tasks. Home helpers, more than 90% of whom are women, are physically demanding. There are many occupational accidents, including lumbagos, musculoskeletal disorders and psycho-social problems. At the financial level, the account is not there either. Remuneration starts at SMIC, part-time work is very frequent and working hours are unusual, since the standard is to work in the evening or at weekends; The working time is highly fragmented and the days, which are large in magnitude, often have several hours' interruptions. The kilometric allowances are also not up to the level, particularly in rural areas where the distances to be covered are tenfold and home helpers have to use their own vehicles. The profession clearly feels that it is abandoned, that it is regulated by a "labour sub-right" and that it is faced with the indifference of the public authorities, so that it is actually the poor parent of public health policies. Recruitment is becoming more and more difficult, and even a shortage is occurring in some territories. Beyond backsliding, studies show these difficulties and also note that some SSIADs located in rural areas do not see their numbers increase, while population ageing and demographic changes increase demand. Mr Secretary of State, you must respond to the problems of autonomy, dependency and end of life in our country and to the difficulties experienced by home helpers, who are – as I said – increased in rural areas. It is about keeping people in the home who are losing their autonomy or suffering from chronic diseases. So, what can you offer them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u118	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u119	Of course, we support the desire expressed by more than 80% of French people to be able to age at home. We hear the expectations of the professionals in the sector and the lack of recognition they have suffered for many years – this does not go back to yesterday. I sincerely believe that the Government is committed to taking into account and responding to the major challenge of self-government facing our country. We are beginning to respond to home help professionals as part of a comprehensive strategy to improve their working conditions and the attractiveness of their trades. As regards remuneration, first of all, the method agreement of 28 May 2021 extends the benefit of the revalorisation of 183 euros net monthly to paramedical employees working in SSIADs who are not covered by the ONDAM – national objective of health insurance expenditure – specific and by the branch of aid, accompaniment, care and home services (BAD). For employees working in the home help sector, the amendment 43 to the national collective agreement of the AfDB allows for a revalorisation which is, I believe, historical: the increase in remuneration, which entered into force since 1 October 2021, is on average 15%; it can range up to 300 euros gross monthly. To help the departments – which are of course concerned – to ensure the financial sustainability of this amendment, a €200 million envelope in full year is mobilised by the State. In addition, under the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022, a national floor rate of 22 euros per hour has been adopted, which corresponds to a minimum level of public funding for all home help services, regardless of the category to which they belong, applicable by all departments. The cost to the departments will also be fully borne by the autonomy branch; it represents an amount of around 240 million euros in 2022. Second, for 2023, the re-design of the IADS pricing will allow for consideration of the need for care and the level of loss of autonomy of individuals. Its financing is estimated at 39 million euros in 2023, and it will reach 127 million euros in 2025. It is also planned to recompose the landscape of home support and accompaniment services (SAAD) by accompanying the merger of the different categories of existing services – they are quite fragmented, which sometimes makes them illegible – into a single category, called home autonomy service. Finally, in order to meet the growing recruitment needs, 12,000 additional places have been created in nursing and nursing training. Older trades platforms are also being launched on an experimental basis in the territories, also to facilitate recruitment and to meet the growing needs in this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u120	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1591, concerning the situation of psychiatry in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u121	Already dominant before the covid pandemic, the problems related to the mental health of the French were only reinforced by the health crisis – you mention it yourself regularly. In this context, it is little to say that the foundations of mental health and psychiatry, which took place last September after two years of waiting, were particularly hoped by the medical community of the public mental health institution of Sarthe (EPSM), located in Allonnes, in my constituency, and of which I wish to speak today. The disappointment of the Sarthois practitioners has been great, as the prospects for the evolution of the human and financial resources of the department – which are obviously necessary for the proper exercise of the missions – seem weak, if not non-existent. In a letter dated 2 November, EPSM staff alerted the Director General of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) about the situation of extreme medical and paramedical shortages in our department. Indeed, only thirty-three psychiatrists are in operation out of the fifty-one positions foreseen in the medical project of establishment 2020-2024, and retirements are expected within five years. In addition, 40 nursing positions are vacant. Now, all devices are thought of from the scarcity of medical times. In Sarthe, even when funded, projects can no longer be implemented due to a lack of nurses, doctors and paramedical professionals. On the other hand, as if the situation were not alarming enough, the Sarthe EPSM was forced to launch a white plan on 22 October to respond to a massive influx of patients whose hospitalization in psychiatry was necessary, even though the occupancy rate of beds has been 100% for several months. The deterioration of patient care is already a sad reality that we cannot resolve. It plunges the staff, forced to open beds without additional means, into a deep disarray. In addition to the national measures announced by the President of the Republic at the close of the foundations of mental health – which are denounced as very insufficient, even unwelcome for some – what are the Government's intentions to implement a resolutely committed policy for the mental health of the French and for the EPSM of the Sarthe? It is about the dignity of staff and patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u122	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u123	I will not argue, but the foundations of mental health were not much expected in two years; They've been there for 20 years! Psychiatry and child psychiatry are the poor parents of public health policies and have been completely abandoned for twenty years; That's the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u124	Yes, but you've been in power for four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u125	We are faced with this situation and – as you know very well – the structural difficulties faced by psychiatry and child psychiatry do not resolve themselves in a slamming of fingers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u126	Four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u127	We did not wait for the foundation of mental health. I remind you that in 2018, Agnes Buzyn presented the roadmap for mental health and psychiatry. In addition, a number of emergency measures are being taken to remedy the problems which, you are right, have been increased as a result of the health crisis that we are going through. However, the indicators were already poor before the crisis, particularly with regard to young people. There are also a number of more structural measures that will take longer. In particular, with regard to the supply of public psychiatry in the Sarthe, it is based on the EPSM, which serves a population of 650,000. This is the most important psychiatric hospital in the Pays de la Loire region: it comprises 6 areas of adult psychiatry with 235 full hospital beds and 158 day hospital places, as well as 2 areas of infant-child psychiatry with 24 day hospital places and 9 full hospital beds. You know the situation much better than I do: the institution has 30 to 33 psychiatrists. There have been many departures and vacancies, including 30 nursing positions. The situation got a little worse with the start of the white plan, from 22 October to 8 November, to deal with the influx of patients to the emergencies of the hospital in Le Mans and the delays in admission to hospital within the EPSM. The plan allowed the installation of twelve post-emergency beds with EPSM staff who have since been integrated into the EPSM hospital offer. It has also facilitated patient transfers between institutions in the region. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the quality of collaboration between the various hospital centres and EPSM. While the situation in the institution has deteriorated in recent months, the investment of professionals remains to provide the most appropriate psychiatric care. The new Director of EPSM has conducted a diagnosis and an audit of the strengths and weaknesses of the institution, and is conducting consultations with all staff for a new organization of care. To assist the professional community, the ARS has also mobilized the National Psychiatric Commission. A first meeting was held to define the needs and method of work. Moreover, in early November, ARS commissioned a task force to propose innovative organisational solutions; It has already set first lines of action, such as the creation of a bed scheduling cell on a hemi-regional scale. It also wants to encourage the recruitment of psychologists to assist professionals and encourages the development of telemedicine. Work is continuing. Improving outpatient management is also at the heart of the thinking. In short, all the actors in the territory – of which you, the Member of the European Parliament, I am convinced – remain mobilized to find solutions to the emergency, but also in a more structural way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u128	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to raise her question, No. 1566, concerning the medical desert in Ariège.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u129	One year's wait to get an appointment with a cardiologist, eight months for a consultation in a medical-psychological centre for a teenager, while rapid care is fundamental in these circumstances: here are examples of waiting times for consulting specialists in Ariège. At the time I prepared my question, about the three emergency services in the department, two were closed for lack of staff: that of Saint-Girons where psychiatric emergencies are located, and that of Lavelanet, for which we have no prospect of reopening. This situation endangers the inhabitants of these territories, raises an additional problem of overwork and leads to an increase in response times for firefighters, who are mostly voluntary and have to remedy the shortcomings of the State. Since then, I have received the testimony of a person who was to undergo chemotherapy at Foix Hospital and who was sent home when he arrived in the department because of a lack of doctors and beds to accommodate him. A senatorial fact-finding mission entitled "Women and Rurality: Ending White Areas of Equality" highlighted the double penalties for women living in rural areas, including access to care. Ariège is again sadly cited in the case of breast cancer screening, as it is the department of Hexagon where the lowest rate of screening is found. I also received a message from a woman who had cancer, and who is rightly insurgent because the Foix hospital no longer practices mammography. At the end of December, Tarascon's hospital will be transformed into EHPAD, and I think it's becoming difficult to find a referral doctor or dentist. Many deputies from all walks of life have constantly alerted the Government, including by submitting numerous bills. Most recently, my communist comrade Sébastien Jumel defended the bill for a health accessible to all and against medical desertification; Unfortunately, it was not adopted. Mr Secretary of State, what concrete solutions are you proposing for the hospitals in my department, in order to guarantee Ariegeois and Ariegeois access to care, which is seriously lacking?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u130	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u131	Thank you for your question; It echoes the concern of many of our compatriots about the declining medical demographics. Indeed, many questions from different territories relate to this subject. Ariège does not escape this situation, and its rural nature probably contributes to its lack of attractiveness for some young caregivers, including doctors. It should be noted, however, that, contrary to what may sometimes be thought, medical desertification does not concern rural areas, urban areas are also confronted with it. In order to improve access to health care, the Occitanie Regional Health Agency (ARS) is implementing several measures that fall within the scope of the My Health 2022 plan, defended at the time by Agnès Buzyn, as well as the resulting regional health project. For city medicine, the ARS has recognized the entire department of Ariège as a priority because of the decline in medical demography observed over the past four years. When the future zoning of doctors is published, no later than the end of March 2022, you should be aware that an installation aid of 50,000 euros will be offered to all doctors and dentists who will settle in the department. This ranking will also allow for the reception of doctors who are signatories to the public service contract, who are financially supported by the State during their studies. In addition to these aids, the ARS also offers a start-up contract to the doctor who settles in the territory, with a guarantee of income for 12 months, on condition that he practises in a coordinated exercise. When general practitioners give preference to wage earners, the ARS grants financial assistance to employers for two years, thanks to the assumption of employers' responsibilities. For liberal medicine, a decree drawn up in connection with the Order of Physicians and the prefecture will soon be signed. It will accommodate medical students as an assistant physician; they will intervene in surplus of the practising doctors, not in replacement. I would like to point out that cooperation between health professionals is also facilitated through cooperation protocols allowing delegations of tasks – new ones are being investigated – or through the 19 multi-professional health centres that the ARS is already accompanying on the territory. Finally, let me highlight the development of telemedicine, which complements the provision of care in this type of territory and thus reduces the geographical constraints that are often inherent in large rural areas. This is the panel of aids and supports that the RHAs are putting in place in the territories to facilitate the installation of doctors, and thus to improve access to the care of our fellow citizens through the provision of adapted care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u132	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u133	Thank you for the information you provide. I note, however, that with regard to the specific situation of the Ariège-Couserans hospital centre and the intercommunal hospital centre in the Ariège valleys, which was precisely the subject of my question, we have not really had an answer. I will perhaps ask you a written question to go into the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u134	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to put his question, No. 1567, concerning the paediatric emergencies in Douai.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u135	The Douai Hospital is a facility with a population of 240,000 and 64 municipalities. Unfortunately, since 15 September, paediatric emergencies have been closed. The announcement was made through the media, while not all the inhabitants were yet aware. While, in the meantime, some paediatric emergency activities have been re-established, notably through the mobilization of citizens and elected officials, we call for the reopening of the service to 100 per cent. Among other things, 15 September announced the closure of night emergencies, as well as weekends and public holidays. Paediatric emergencies were therefore open during the day, from nine to eighteen hours. Since then, thanks to the mobilization, the emergencies are opened again on weekends and public holidays, but also from nine to twenty-one hours, Monday to Sunday evening. It's a step forward, but it's not enough. Secretary of State, understand that families are concerned: they must travel between 45 minutes and an hour's drive with sick children in the car, children who are crying and who cannot be consoled, where it used to take between 15 and 30 minutes. We call for the Minister of Solidarity and Health to be able to deploy all the necessary resources to deal with this shortage, so that paediatric emergencies can be opened to 100%. Pending the recruitment necessary for the proper functioning of the service, we request the mobilisation of the health reserve, provided for in article L. 3134-1 of the Public Health Code "when it is necessary to strengthen the provision of care in the territory of a region or [...] in case of exceptional health situation".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u136	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u137	I understand that you exchange regularly with the Regional Health Agency (RHA) – at least I hope so – on this and other issues for which you are involved. I think the RSA is keeping you informed of developments. If it does, it is a dialogue that I welcome. We know the situation of paediatric emergencies at the Douai hospital. Human resources difficulties have led to their closure at night and on weekends since September. This partial closure resulted in a specific territorial coordination, with a strong involvement of the Saint-Amé clinic and several public health institutions partners in Lens, Arras, Cambrai or Valenciennes, but also of the University Hospital of Lille and the two SAMUs concerned. Since October 16, the paediatric emergency service has reopened on Saturdays and Sundays during the day. Since November 2, the hotel has expanded its evening reception times by reopening Monday to Sunday from 9 a.m. to 21 a.m. All of this has reduced the impact on partner institutions and provided better quality care for those concerned, starting with children. Outside of these opening hours, emergencies are closed at night but take care of vital emergencies, trauma emergencies and all respiratory discomfort, which are known to be numerous at this time. At the capacity level, fourteen paediatric medical beds, four paediatric continuing care beds and five paediatric surgical beds are open, and nine beds have also been opened in neonatology. Several of these services had had to close beds due to the number of paediatric patients, and to date 5.8 full-time equivalents (FTEs) of paediatric physicians are present in the facility, who believe they can maintain this organization throughout the winter. For the time being, it is still difficult to foresee the future, I agree with you, given the global uncertainties that affect the human resources of all health facilities in the region, I think I know. I invite you, of course, to continue your dialogue with the RSA, which will continue to keep you informed and associated with developments, to which we, too, give a great deal of attention and importance to the Government and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u138	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u139	Several points, Secretary of State. First of all, there is no dialogue with the SRA, it is always necessary to solicit information, including for the management of the institution. I find that it is a total disregard for families, who are waiting for concrete answers to see if their children will be able to go to the pediatric emergencies after twenty-one hours – this is not always the case. You're talking about the Saint-Amé clinic open for children over a year old: it is already saturated and at twenty-three hours no children are received. This is a dramatic situation that cannot be allowed to continue. I know that 5.8 FTEs of pediatric doctors have arrived in the institution but I strongly condemn this lack of foresight, the fact that doctors leave without taking care to try to hire others. Ministerial responsibility is at stake because there is a breakdown in equal access to care in the territories. There is a break in equality: families cannot be asked to travel for more than one hour to get their children cared for. I therefore ask that the health reserve be mobilised so that the paediatric emergencies at the Douai hospital are opened at 100%, 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u140	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to put his question, No. 1569, concerning the hospital centre of Sotteville-lès-Rouen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u141	The Bois-Petit de Sotteville-lès-Rouen public hospital includes, in addition to a follow-up and rehabilitation service, eight EHPAD services, including a strengthened accommodation unit for residents with severe behavioural disorders. Since 2016, this institution has shared a common direction with the hospital center of Rouuvray, specialized in psychiatric care and where, moreover, the situation is still so harmful. Like many EHPADs, the Bois-Petit suffers from a situation of chronic understaffing, like the geriatric service of the hospital Saint-Julien in Petit-Quevilly, not far from there, increased from fifty beds in 2020 to thirty and then twenty beds in the summer of 2021, following the departures of unreplaced doctors. Each of the eight services of EHPAD du Bois-Petit supports twenty-eight to thirty residents. While each morning team was previously equipped with four health workers to look after the residents, they have only been three since the implementation of an experimental reorganization. In fact, three-way operation is problematic. The rules on the organization of rest periods for agents, especially on weekends, are regularly sacrificed. The right to leave is conditional on the acceptance of additional Sunday working days, to allow services to function – often in degraded mode. Contract agents are, on the other hand, corveable thanks to pressure on the renewal of their contract. Regularly, services are found with two caregivers instead of three, which compromises their work, especially in the morning. Medical-psychological aids, which do the same work as health-care workers, denounce the injustice done to them by the Ségur de la santé, which does not plan to reclassify them to category B, unlike the health-care workers. It is therefore in a particularly tense social context, with illegal obstacles to the exercise of trade union freedoms, that the situation continues to deteriorate. The ill-being is increasing, particularly as a result of the lack of reorientation of the management policy of the institution. The Regional Health Agency (RHA) has been deaf and silent for three years on the situation of this major facility. While 278 staff members are included in the staffing table, they are only 251 staff members in the establishment and probably much less in the field. In short, the officers are now on strike again and again and require the recruitment of eight more colleagues to allow the return to the teams of four hospital services officers (ASH) in the morning, and the return to social dialogue, because we are in a situation of blockage. There is a need to re-establish a benevolent policy vis-à-vis agents working in direct contact with patients. I ask you to pay particular attention to this situation and I look forward to your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u142	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u143	I would like to begin by thanking all health professionals for their constant commitment and commitment, coupled with a sometimes difficult reconciliation between work and personal life with an impact on their daily lives and the attractiveness of the professions, we are well aware of this and that is why the Government has made a number of commitments within the framework of the Ségur de la santé. The big national figures, you know them: 8,2 billion euros to upgrade the jobs in the establishments, the strengthening of the attractiveness of careers, the recruitment of 15,000 caregivers in the hospital or the increase in the number of trained paramedical professionals. More locally, in your constituency, the hospital centre of Bois-Petit has, as you may know, received EUR 1 million as part of the wage adjustment measures, therefore for healthcare professionals. The institution also receives regular financial support to support the implementation of its priority projects for the benefit of patients and staff. For daily investments, the institution received an allocation of EUR 51672 in 2020 and EUR 120000 in 2021, as well as EUR 3448835 for the restoration of financial capacity. In order to support its medical, social and health activities, in 2021 the ARS also paid almost 160000 euros in aid to the establishment of Bois-Petit. In addition, the hospital has initiated a policy of tenure and improvement of working conditions, in conjunction with staff representatives. Thus, its project to acquire handling equipment has just been selected following the annual call for regional project support for EHPAD; In this context, it will receive aid of EUR 30000. More broadly, I am convinced that, in order to maintain an intense social dialogue, the management of the establishment has just proposed a new timetable for working towards a memorandum of understanding with the trade unions, based in particular on the measures resulting from the Segur. The challenge is for everyone to recognize the collective commitment of the hospital in the context of the social dialogue that you called for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u144	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor to raise the question, No. 1599, by Mr Matthieu Orphelin concerning midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u145	Mr Orphelin, who is suffering, has indeed entrusted me with his question. He wished to draw the Government's attention to issues inherent in the profession of midwives. It is important to welcome the progress made recently, but improvements must not obscure the fact that there are still many difficulties, of which the midwives we have encountered, which affect them on a daily basis. In this sense, and because it is necessary to continue the work of considering these professionals, Matthieu Orphelin wishes to ask you about the possibility of implementing various measures to combat medical desertification, of better distribution of the workforce throughout the territory, but above all of increasing these numbers. This lack of equitable distribution and the lack of staff leads to dramatic consequences, for example in Maine-et-Loire at the maternity centre in Saumur. The latter found himself in such a state of tension that he closed his maternity emergencies and his birth rooms on the nights of November 9-14, 2021, leading to the reorientation of more than ten patients in other maternity wards located one hour from Saumur, to give birth. The lack of staff particularly affects midwives, who in some cases have to manage two-room guards, whereas they should be at least four, as a result of the reorganisation of the workforce. Such conditions pose serious risks. Two midwives in the birth room cannot provide support for women and newborns following childbirth. The issue of staffing concerns a large part of the health professions and this undermines the overall functioning of a service. This was the case in Saumur, but it is the case in many other hospitals in the territories. This is a real safety issue for both mothers and newborns. The needs are real. For example, there are at least three territorial midwives missing in Maine-et-Loire. It is also a central issue in the concerns of these professionals, who are committed to doing their job well, which is difficult under such conditions. And these are similar patterns to those experienced by EHPAD caregivers. Can you, Mr Secretary of State, indicate to us the planned actions, in addition to the Ségur de la santé and the recent bill on the financing of social security for 2022, to stop the shortage of staff in many professions in the health system, and in particular to meet the demands of midwives at national level, concerning the number of professionals assigned to the areas of the birthroom, calculated on the basis of the decrees of perinatality of 1998 whose midwives have been asking for revision for more than ten years and on which the negotiations held in 2018-2019 have not finally succeeded? Long work has already been done jointly between midwives and parliamentarians. Concrete measures, which would have a tangible impact on these professionals, have been proposed, such as the granting of the possibility for students in Maieutics to sign a public service contract or the setting up of minimum staff, making them compulsory and increasing them. What is the Government's position on these issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u146	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u147	The issue of access to care was a priority of the Government, which had not waited for action, whether it was midwives or other professions. As you know, the abolition of the numerus clausus was carried out in the academic year 2020-2021, in favour of national multi-annual targets of health professionals to be trained according to the needs of the territories and training capacities, and in the continuity of an increase of 57% in the numerus clausus of midwives between 1998 and 2020. A 4% increase in midwives to be trained by 2025 was stopped at the end of the national conference on 26 March. Over the past decade, the number of midwives has steadily increased. As of 1 January 2021, 23400 midwives were practising in our country. You are asking me about the extension of the public service contract (PSC) to midwives. It should be recalled that, while the scheme was conceived as one of the responses to the finding of unequal access to care, it also aims to promote a better distribution of the flows of graduates in addition to the measures of distribution envisaged by the filiarization of the posts of interns in medicine, which is not the case for midwives, you know. The context of tension in the demographics that you refer to may lead to the weakening or even closure of certain services. We work, in particular by maintaining the attractiveness of the profession, and several strong levers have been activated in recent months: on the one hand, the securing of the legal framework of the birth homes aims to allow midwives to create alternative places of delivery. This experiment has been confirmed and extended in the latest draft law on the financing of social security, unless there is an error. Twelve new structures are expected over the next two years, which we will support with annual funding of more than EUR 2 million. Finally, at the beginning of next year, the maternity commitment project, whose decree will appear, will provide pregnant women who are more than 45 minutes away from maternity with access to accommodation in the vicinity, prior to childbirth, and a refund of the transport. Remember, it was a commitment of the Government; It will be made effective, of course, it is important. Finally, a third example is support for the deployment of perinatal community centres, whose missions will be renovated by the end of the first quarter of 2022. They will be destined to settle in the most isolated territories. That, honourable Member, is a few examples of our support for this profession. As part of the strategy for the prevention and protection of children, I could have mentioned the 100 million that we are reinvesting in the maternal and child protection structures (MIPs), in which midwives also work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u148	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière spoke of his question, No. 1598, on the right to custody of young children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u149	Last October, at the National Conference of Families, there was talk of the opportunity to create a right to custody of young children. This proposal, which emerged in particular from the Heydemann-Damon report, revives the debate on better care for young children before entering kindergarten. I would like to associate myself with this, because this concern particularly affects the inhabitants of my constituency and, more broadly, those of the entire Lyon region and many other regions. This problem stresses young parents at a time in their lives when pleasure and attention should prevail. It raises crucial questions about how we view society, quite simply. The subject is essential in several ways. For women's access to employment and for their professional careers, first of all: we have known for a long time that the mode of care has a very strong impact on professional and wage equality, as well as on retirement. The fight against social inequalities since the earliest age, then: guaranteeing an offer of accessible and quality care forms part of the actions aimed at the development and success of each child. Of course, the establishment of a enforceable right to custody should be carried out in consultation with local authorities, so as not to put them in difficulty, while they are already making so much effort year after year. They are making all the more efforts as our fellow citizens make children, which is obviously good news. What does the Government plan to do? Has the executive set a timetable, a waiting horizon that could reassure future parents in my constituency, the Lyon region and all the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u150	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u151	You rightly point out that we have been working for several years – this is not the time of today – to offer all parents who wish to do so a reception solution for young children, whatever the form or method: a place in a nursery, a place with a kindergarten assistant, a child care at home or a place in a microcrèche – these structures are developing – or in a house of kindergarten assistants. The offer is diversifying, but it does not allow each parent to have the right to have a mode of care for his or her child, at a cost adapted to his or her means and which would be identical – I will return to it. Therefore, beyond the steps that are sometimes complex even before birth – I usually say that one wonders about the way in which one takes care of one's child before even choosing one's first name, which is a reality for many Frenchmen – some parents find themselves forced to reduce or interrupt their professional activity, for lack of having found a solution. This is obviously an unsatisfactory situation in terms of employment policy, because people stop working, but also in terms of equality between women and men, because it is often women who stop working to keep the child, and also in terms of combating inequalities of destiny, because the existing systems, besides not being able to offer a mode of reception to each child, are quite unequal: it is mainly children of managers who benefit from places in collective mode. In addition, having a kindergarten assistant is a cost that only the most socially favoured people can afford. We have worked and are still working to gradually correct some of the most significant limitations of the reception system, to reach what I would call a public service for early childhood, which must be our horizon. This includes the harmonization of the system, which is particularly fragmented, complex and unreadable from the parents' point of view. We are in the process of unifying and harmonising the sector around the concept of reception quality. The National Charter for Quality of Reception, which dates from 2016, has been incorporated into the law and now applies to all modes of reception, regardless of whether they are individual or collective. Last week, I set up the Early Childhood Sector Committee, which brings together all the players, financiers, trade unions, organisations and associations in the sector to advance the sector in the same direction. We have also set up an information service for families, which allows them to know the supply of kindergarten assistants around their homes. Work still needs to be continued, particularly with regard to financial equality of access to accommodation, organisation and sharing of responsibilities in the field of early childhood. You mentioned the association of local authorities; The question of competence will have to be asked, but I do not have the answer today. I would like to make an important announcement to conclude: following one of the flagship proposals in the Heydemann-Damon report, which I commissioned and which was presented to me at the National Conference of Families, I proposed to the Prime Minister – who accepted – that the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) be seized to identify the measures necessary for the creation of a public service for early childhood, defined as the guaranteed right for every parent who wishes to take care of the young child at a similar cost, regardless of the mode of reception. The EESC is expected to submit its proposals before the end of March 2022. That is the follow-up, honourable Member, that we are giving to your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u152	The next speaker is Mrs Fabienne Colboc, to put her question, No. 1573, on desertification in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u153	I would like to draw your attention to the problem of veterinary desertification in rural areas. On my territory, I meet the breeders who are deeply concerned about the retirement of the only veterinarian in the sector who specializes in intervention with farm animals. After forty years of work, she aspires to a well-deserved retirement, but does not find a successor despite the many past announcements and the training of young veterinarians in her practice. This is not an isolated situation. At the national level, while the number of veterinarians in the Order's table has grown over the past five years, the number of rural veterinarians has fallen sharply: more than 18% decline over the same period. In my department of Indre-et-Loire, out of forty-six veterinary care facilities, only six are involved in agriculture. There is an urgent need for action so that farmers can continue their activities calmly. The increasing weakening of veterinary meshes raises real questions, on the protection of animal health, on the preservation of livestock holdings and more generally on public health. It is true that practice in rural areas involves working conditions which may hinder the installation of young veterinarians, or the recovery of customers. The distances to be travelled between farms can be significant. This change is also due to a change in goals and attitudes among young people, who do not have the same desires or aspirations as their elders. To address this issue, we adopted in the Act of 3 December 2020 on various provisions for the adaptation of economic and financial law of the European Union (DDADE) specified in two decrees of 11 November 2021. It encourages veterinarians and students to settle in areas at risk of desertification; It allows communities to provide financial assistance to the facility. Could you give us an initial assessment of its implementation and, more generally, provide us with the solutions that the Government is considering to ensure the continuity of care of farmed animals in all territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u155	First of all, I would like to stress your action for the benefit of the veterinary network. I accept your observation: we are facing a very serious veterinary desertification which could ultimately raise the question of the very sustainability of certain activities; the absence of a veterinarian considerably complicates the breeding activity. We must act forcefully, and this has been done by successive majorities. Since 2017, a roadmap has been dedicated to combating veterinary desertification; I felt it needed to be strengthened and updated, as a result of a lot of work we have done with parliamentarians – including you, the Member of Parliament – and all the professionals. I presented this updated roadmap very recently last October; It is based on different pillars. Let me introduce some of them. The first – as you mentioned – is the DDADE law, which gives local authorities the opportunity to take incentives to encourage and maintain the installation of veterinarians in the territory. This law has already been adopted. There was a need for a regulatory text to identify the territories where such action was possible, and I wanted it to be as broad as possible, to ensure that any community wishing to invest in these incentives could do so. It's done. I would also like to draw your attention to an amendment to the bill on differentiation, decentralisation, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, aimed at ensuring that the territorially extended aspect of the application of the DDADE law is fully sustainable. The second pillar is obviously training. More veterinarians, especially in so-called rural and rent farms, need to be trained in order not only to take care of the city. We have therefore increased the resources allocated to veterinary education under the new finance bill. There is also a very important device in my view: tutored internships. When students from veterinary schools take a tutored internship in farm farms, almost 80% of learners then decide to direct their professional project towards these farms. This is very important, and we must not squander on the resources allocated to tutored internships, which can be done with local authorities. The third challenge is to have territorial approaches, including territorial diagnoses desired by the profession. We are organizing them; This will take the form of a call for projects which will be launched in 2022 and which will make it possible to finance such diagnoses, in order to establish territorial public policies. Finally, the capacity, in number of places for learners, is strengthened, whether in post-bac routes or in new veterinary schools. We are working hard on this. There are a few main measures, Madam Member; Obviously, I could have gone into more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u156	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u157	The breeders have made the following proposal to me, and I'll let you know: they are ready to recruit and salaried veterinarians from several farms. Would it be possible to obtain aid for such mutualisations? They would reduce movement, as farmers were close to each other. They would be interested in financial support for pooling, at least at the start-up stage, to recruit veterinarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u158	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to put his question, No. 1588, on bluetongue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u159	Bluetongue returned to Corsica last October for the first time since 2017, the year of the last census of this so-called bluetongue disease, which mainly affects sheep. Dozens of outbreaks have been recorded to date, from the north to the south of the island. More than a year ago, in March 2020, I was already alerting you, Minister, through a written question, of the potential threat of return of the virus, given the high risk this disease poses to the Corsican herd, despite the 20 years of vaccination campaign. However, no reply has been provided to me since the publication in the Official Journal. Now the health emergency is there. In addition to the use of killer insecticides of the culicoid-type prickling flybird carrying the virus, vaccination remains the most effective preventive measure. However, the vaccine has not been reimbursed since the beginning of the year and vaccination against the disease is no longer mandatory, but is simply allowed. On the other hand, the cost of the vaccine is very high: more than 2000 euros have to be paid for 600 ewes, and many breeders pay very little income. As a result, doses are not readily available to professionals, and the current gestation period is considered to be unsuitable for vaccination. What measures have you taken or intend to take in the very short term to help farmers? As early as 2020, professionals reported a high risk of virus arrival in Corsica, notably via neighbouring Sardinia. Is it not necessary, under these conditions, to create, as soon as possible, an arc of health vigilance in the Mediterranean, which involves the territorial authorities of the various countries, the States and the European Union, in order to finally effectively protect the herds of these viral diseases and their devastating mutations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u160	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u161	First of all, I apologize for the lack of an answer to your question. I take note of this and will look at it – as you know, it is not my practice not to respond to parliamentarians. First of all, I will reply to the end of your speech, which concerns the means of action. My position is very clear. Following your inquiries, we requested a report from our inspection body, the General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas (CGAAER). He concluded that existing mechanisms to combat bluetongue should be strengthened. Then I call for vaccination. As you said very well, it is clearly the best way to combat this disease. We therefore share the same vision. Several elements need to be taken into account. Ovine bluetongue is now widespread throughout the country, including Corsica. It had not disappeared between 2017 and 2021, but many cases are asymptomatic or weakly symptomatic, which poses difficulty. In Corsica, as in Sardinia, there is an upsurge with many cases, as you have pointed out. This should encourage even more vaccination and other means of action. We work in partnership with the health defence group, GDS Corse, according to a convention. You ask if the state will make vaccination compulsory and if, in this case, it will be reimbursed, as it was before. We are faced with a twofold difficulty. First, ovine bluetongue is no longer considered to be a regulated disease, thus dependent on the state; It has become the responsibility of the breeders, because it has spread everywhere. It is therefore considered a common disease, even if it can cause serious economic damage to our farms. Then, when the new European rules forced us to take a position on the matter, we asked all professionals if they wanted vaccination to be compulsory; They clearly answered no. The State therefore encourages vaccination because, like you, it considers it to be the only barrier to the disease; To eradicate the virus, all animals should be vaccinated, or at least the proportion of animals vaccinated should be massive. Vaccination is no longer compulsory, and management of the disease is therefore the responsibility of the livestock industry and is no longer the responsibility of the State. This situation is the result of the application of European animal health legislation, after consultation with all professionals. That's the reality. In this context, we continue to work with GDS Corse, strengthening cooperation; I am absolutely convinced that we must continue to do so. However, I should like to stress the context within which we are taking part on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the consultations of professionals have led to the cessation of the vaccination obligation and hence the reimbursement of the vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u162	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u163	[[Smile]] The subject is viral – that is the least we can say, in these times of epidemic. As you said, the economic and sociological consequences – we are talking about territories that are culturally impregnated by pastoralism – are catastrophic. You mentioned the consultations with the professionals. Your point of view is global.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u164	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u165	As far as Corsica is concerned, I can guarantee that herders have wanted vaccination for years. They claimed that the virus would return to Sardinia, where it was dominant. The very high cross-border risk was identified, since the state and the institutions were warned – it was the subject of my written question and the interventions of the professionals on the spot. We are told that the latter can no longer be reimbursed while they were volunteers. Given the history of warnings issued by local professionals, I strongly call for an adjustment for reimbursement, since we are in a legitimate experimental time. If this is not the case, direct cooperation with Sardinia must be significantly strengthened, because the cost of the vaccine is said to be lower. We can't stay as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u166	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to put her question, No 1597, on the reform of crop insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u167	The reform of crop insurance to be developed in the course of next January is good news for our farmers, who have successively faced the freezing, droughts and dramatic effects of the health crisis, and who call for simplification of the insurance system and more effective recourse. Its very structure, articulated and levelled according to the agricultural specificities of the professionals concerned, will improve farmers' access to certain contracts so far too expensive. This is a step forward I welcome. Nevertheless, the farmers concerned express their concern about the delay in implementing such a reform, which will not enter into force until 2023. At present, some insurers are increasing their crop insurance rates immoderately, from 10 to 15% or even 25% for wine growers. I also wonder about the possible disappearance of state support for uninsured farmers. I agree that the Government is seeking massive membership of farmers in insurance schemes; However, if they have not been given time or if, due to a lack of information, farmers do not subscribe to it, will they be deprived of any support? Are you considering asking for an insurance price freeze until the reform comes into force, so that farmers can have access to it during the year 2022? Do you guarantee that the uninsured will always be able to claim emergency aid in the event of unexpected agricultural disasters?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u168	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u169	To answer precisely, there is no question of depriving uninsured persons of risk coverage. The reform of the insurance system does not concern only private crop insurance, proposed by insurers; It concerns the whole coverage system, which includes the reform of compensation for agricultural disasters and the reform of crop insurance, to make it one and the same system, which, very schematically, will have three stages, depending on the level of losses. Until the deductible, the damage will be borne by the farmer, as in all risk-covering schemes; between the deductible and a so-called exceptional loss threshold, the damage will be covered by the insurer, provided that he has purchased insurance, which will not be mandatory; above this amount, national solidarity and the State will intervene. The system will be the same for everyone. Those who will not be insured will benefit from the third stage of the scheme, knowing that the thresholds will be defined according to the crops, each type of production calling for its own. The current system is very complex and unattractive. Compensation can take months or years: compensation for a drought sometimes occurs a year and a half after it has occurred. We are developing a clear, accessible system that regulates insurance activity with a group of insurers. Everyone takes responsibility: farmers between zero and franchise; insurers between the deductible and the threshold; the State beyond. With regard to deadlines, Spain took twelve years to complete such a reform of crop insurance; We have undertaken to achieve this within a year. We cannot do this in three weeks, and I assure you that if that had been the case, I would have been the first to wish – you're beginning to know me. First, we need to build the general architecture of the system, with the participating insurers, on the three floors that I have just explained. Provision should be made for government subsidies, particularly to cover insurance premiums, and for management rules, for example, that an uninsured person should always, by definition, be less covered than an insured person. That is the purpose of the bill that I introduced in the Council of Ministers last week; I will have the honour to defend him here the week of January 20, 2022, and then in the Senate the week of February 10, for adoption before the end of the legislature. There will be several months to determine thresholds, actuarial rules and enforcement mechanisms. The bill will lay the foundations of the house; we will determine the size of the pieces and the color of the wallpaper in a second time. So we need 2022 to finalize the project; We have set ourselves the goal of applying it at the beginning of 2023, when the new Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) comes into force. This is an incredibly structuring, technically very complex reform. The devil nests in detail. We will act with great strength, determination and professionalism, so that our farmers finally have a system of risk coverage worthy of this name.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u170	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor to put her question, No. 1572, on wind projects in the Haute-Vienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u171	I would like to alert the Government to the massive development of wind projects in northern Upper Vienna. Over the past ten years, implementation projects have been increasing. Thus, forty-four wind turbines are in operation in the department, including thirty-seven in my constituency, north of Limoges. If all the projects under way succeed, 80 additional machines will be installed by 2028 in this territory: 124 wind turbines out of 170 in total will be concentrated on one third of the area of the department. In New Aquitaine as elsewhere in the national territory, the installation of wind turbines raises the legitimate question of equitable distribution. In my constituency, I can only note the stress that the proliferation of such projects is causing: they are fuelling tensions at the heart of our campaigns. In Balledent, Saint-Sornin-Leulac, Droux and Châteauponsac or Peyrilhac, I was questioned daily by citizens, associations and elected officials concerned about the exponential development of wind projects, which led to the transition from a mugging phenomenon to a state of saturation of the territory. Financial attractiveness convinces some elected officials, who see the development of wind projects as an opportunity for significant tax revenues and significant investment potential in territories that are often in decline. Unfortunately, wind turbines have a repulsive effect: their impact on landscapes and their dispersal are detrimental to tourism development. As you know, 80% of wind projects face difficulties of appropriation by the population and are almost always the subject of litigation. In order to ensure the acceptability of projects, it is essential that citizens' demands and concerns are better taken into account, whether they concern the protection of fauna, flora and landscapes or other factors, such as noise and property devaluation. The Government wishes to increase the share of renewable energy in France's energy mix. This will only be possible with the consent of the citizens. On October 5, 2021, the Minister of Ecological Transition presented ten measures for the controlled and responsible development of wind energy. What will be the concrete effects of this on the regulation and limitation of wind turbine installations in already overexploited, saturated territories such as the north of Haute-Vienne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u172	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u173	Like all renewable energies, wind energy is essential to fight global warming – I know that you know that and that you share that feeling. The study "Future Energy 2050" published by the Electricity Transmission Network (TEN) has recently shown that a significant development of the Earth's wind will be necessary, regardless of the scenario chosen. We share the concern you have described about the consequences for biodiversity and French landscapes, including the risk of saturation. We responded by announcing the measures that you mentioned, aimed at the harmonious development of the new wind farms. First, they are subject to strict regulation of classified facilities. Each park must produce an impact assessment, particularly on landscape and biodiversity issues; the State authorities shall examine it before any authorisation is issued. Citizens' views are also taken into account in the public inquiry conducted by an investigating commissioner: it serves as the basis for the prefect's decision whether or not to allow these parks and allows, where necessary, to impose additional impact reduction or compensation measures. Last spring, Barbara Pompili and I – as you pointed out – sent a circular to the prefects, reminding them of the importance of a high level of requirement regarding compatibility with local environmental issues. It also calls for the development of a mapping of areas suitable for the possible installation of new wind farms, linked to communities, to better plan local development. The questions of landscape saturation are of course taken into account. I have found, very recently in the Far East, that these maps are almost ready: large areas can already be studied, while there are red areas on which to abstain from any settlement project, due to its impacts, especially at the landscape level. On the contrary, other areas may still be considered, such as motorway edges. Between these two extremes are areas for which projects need to be considered on a case-by-case basis. Our goal is also to reduce noise nuisances, to which some residents are extremely sensitive. I confirm in this respect that, as of 1 January, noise checks will be carried out systematically for any new park, which will allow, in the event of exceeding the permitted thresholds, to take steps to reduce the speed of blades, or even to require the installation to be stopped. The measures taken also include the creation of a fund, financed by wind energy producers, which will finance the restoration and protection of the natural and cultural heritage, in conjunction with the municipalities and mayors concerned. The latter will be systematically consulted before a project is launched – a provision that appears in the so-called climate and resilience law and will be effective from the beginning of 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u174	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u175	Thank you for your response, which takes into account environmental and environmental issues, and for the reflections that are already underway. There is an urgent need to take action, in areas in arrears, that feel abandoned and devalued, that see their landscapes disfigured and their tourism development projects threatened. Thank you for your special attention to the Haute-Vienne department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u176	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor to put his question, No. 1583, on a moratorium on wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u177	Nearly 10,000 wind turbines exist in France. Yet you are defending the ever more anarchic development of large wind farms, which disfigure many natural and tourist sites, destroy preserved spaces and threaten animal species. Ten years ago, the rural territories welcomed the establishment of wind turbines as an element of modernity and as an asset, in terms of tax revenues for the municipalities. However, the upsurges of the territories are now very negative, particularly in the Loire department. The local elected representatives express great dismay at the pressure of the promoters to install more wind turbines. Our fellow citizens no longer accept the artificialization, nor the motivating of the territory by wind turbines. That is why senators had the wisdom to grant mayors, when considering Bill 3DS, a veto power over the installation of wind turbines in their communes. Unfortunately, the deputies of the LaREM group have removed this – although legitimate – provision in committee in the National Assembly. Our fellow citizens are calling for a moratorium on wind turbines, especially in the Loire department, where the beautiful Pilat Regional Natural Park is threatened by wind turbines. With Sylvie Bonnet, Deputy Member of Parliament, we meet regularly with the associations of local residents: they are concerned because, in addition to ecological damage to nature, nuisances also concern noise, strobe effects, visual pollution, loss of venal value from 10% to 20% of the land. What can I answer, Madam Secretary of State, to the members of the associations "Protégéons Taillard" and "Sources de Taillard", the Association de défense de la forêt sectionale de Saint-Sauveur-en-Rue, or the Association pour la protection du patrimoine et de l'environnement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u178	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u179	You call our attention to the landscape impacts of wind projects. The development of wind energy is indispensable in our energy mix. To achieve carbon neutrality, we must drastically reduce our fossil energy consumption and massively electrify transport, heating and industry. Thus, despite a decline in total energy consumption, our electricity needs will increase. However, new nuclear reactors will not be operational for 15 years. Until then, only the massive development of renewable energy (ENR) – which is complementary to each other – is necessary and desirable, in order to heat ourselves, to move around, to produce, but above all to reduce our fossil fuel imports and CO emissions. The energy mix must be diversified, particularly among NRIs. It is therefore essential to support the development of renewable energies in the most harmonious and concerted way possible. Wind farms are subject to strict regulation of classified facilities and must produce, upstream, an impact assessment including landscape and biodiversity issues, which is analysed by government departments. Citizens' views are also taken into account in the public inquiry, conducted by an investigating commissioner – all the elements on which the Prefect's decision to allow the park, whether or not to allow it to impose additional impact reduction or compensation measures, if necessary. Last October, Barbara Pompili and I announced ten measures to make wind energy development more responsible, in particular by asking the regional prefects to build, together with the regions and local authorities, a mapping of the areas suitable for wind energy development, or vice versa, as well as all the areas on which the projects must be studied on a case-by-case basis. These maps will be the subject of local consultations. The mayors of the municipalities concerned by the wind farms projects will be invited to give an opinion upstream of any project, which the project promoters will have to ask for. A fund will also be created to restore and protect the natural and cultural heritage of parks. It will be in the hands of the mayors, who, I say again, will be questioned in the foreground and will have to give an opinion on the park projects, as early as 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u180	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u181	You have not answered my question: our fellow citizens want a moratorium, you cannot continue to deploy wind turbines in an anarchic way from Paris, thus disregarding the rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u183	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1592, on cracked houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u184	My question concerns the situation of people who are victims of serious and deep cracks in their homes, who are, in many respects, forgotten of the heat wave. In the department of Sarthe, inhabitants of rural or urban communes – as far as my constituency is concerned, in Ardenay-sur-Mérize, Parigné-l'Évêque, Savigné-l'Évêque, Le Mans Métropole, as well as in neighbourhoods of the city of Le Mans – see their houses crack down. Nearly five hundred houses would be affected throughout the Sarthe department. These disorders are caused by the deformation of the soil after the swelling and retraction of clays, on which many houses are built. Reparations are often large and difficult to bear by low-income families, thus losing their assets and remaining in debt. The municipalities have, of course, been declared in a state of natural disaster, but it has not passed since. The procedure for accessing possible insurance compensation is complex and lengthy. While waiting for the houses continue to deteriorate, aggravating the damage suffered and the legitimate concern of the owners and families. Last January, I had already argued for a change in legislation, indicating that I was available to contribute, as co-chair of the insurance study group. An important criticism was then made of the lack of transparency of the meteorological and technical data used, and the impossibility of requesting technical expertise and a soil study in the event of a problem. I hope that the Government will make a concrete commitment and say what it intends to do to improve the situation, with a real timetable at the key.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u185	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u186	Following the communal applications filed under the drought-rehydration episode of 2018, a simplification of the criteria for classification as a natural disaster had been carried out as early as 2019, allowing to shorten the processing times of applications by the interministerial commission for the recognition of the state of natural disaster, known as CATNAT, from the order of two years on average in 2008, to seven months in 2020. We can welcome this substantial improvement. However, it is recognized that the criteria for recognizing the state of natural disasters remain complex and – you are right – do not take sufficient account of local realities. The Charente senator, Nicole Bonnefoy, has published a report on climate risk management and the evolution of compensation schemes, supplemented by the work of deputies Stéphane Baudu and Marguerite Deprez-Audebert, which led to the adoption by the National Assembly and then by the Senate last October of the bill to strengthen the system of compensation for natural disasters. The bill, as amended by Members of Parliament and Senators at first reading, aims to put an end to the opacity surrounding the procedure for the recognition of natural disasters, which has been pointed out for several years by local elected officials and victims. The procedural and indemnification deadlines are also reviewed and the care of the victims strengthened. The Joint Joint Committee – imminent – should endorse a text allowing a first step towards improving the CATNAT regime. In addition, an amendment by the Government, tabled in the framework of Bill 3DS, aims to empower the Government to reform CATNAT by order, with a view to improving compensation for claims related to clay phenomena. Very concretely, this authorisation must enable the insurance code to be amended, in order to improve the management of the consequences, often very serious, on the building, and on the material conditions of the insured persons, linked to the phenomena of land movements following drought or the rehydration of clay soils.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u187	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u188	Thank you for these first elements. I agree that simplification will shorten the deadlines. The only problem is that of the criteria, which were changed prior to the declaration of natural disasters, which resulted in the exclusion of a large number of owners and municipalities concerned. The National Assembly and the Senate did indeed carry out work. We will have the opportunity, during the current discussion on the 3DS text, to ask for clarification of the Government's amendment to allow for better management. I remain cautious, however, and I hope that the people concerned will indeed be able to obtain the answers they have been waiting for a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u189	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to put his question, No. 1594, on the operation of the French Biodiversity Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u190	My question concerns the operation of the French Biodiversity Office (OFB), the creation of which was decided by Parliament in 2019, thanks to the merger of the Agence française pour la biodiversité (AFB) and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage (ONCFS). The FBA dealt with biodiversity issues, while the ONCFS dealt with species, mainly animal species. After two years of operation of the OFB, there have emerged incomprehensions, if not tensions, between the agents of OFB who intervene on the ground, especially in the bay of Mont-Saint-Michel, but also in the bay of Somme – I exchanged in this respect the MP Jean-Claude Leclabart – and the local actors – the breeders of salted meadow lambs, for example in the bay of Mont-Saint-Michel, the mussel farmers, the farmers, the fishermen on foot, the hunters. All these operators turn either to local elected representatives, including mayors, or to parliamentarians, especially MPs, sometimes to the prefect and to state services: they do not understand who is responsible for what. The first president of OFB, Breton Thierry Burlot, was heard by the National Assembly: he said he was a non-executive president. He therefore does not have the power, held by the Directorate-General. After two years of operation of the OFB – which has a role of prevention, advice, preservation of the environment, but also makes a police service, which is understandable – we need a clear strategy, and above all, we need to exercise discernment on the ground. If the bays of Mont-Saint-Michel and Somme have remained jewels of the national territory, it is because for centuries, the operators on the ground have worked to preserve these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u191	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u192	The OFB is administered by a board of directors whose members represent the actors in water management and biodiversity. It deliberates on the strategic directions and general policy of the establishment, which is recent and whose culture remains to be built. It brings together different public institutions which did not necessarily have the same tasks or actions. The Board of Directors is essential to define the corporate culture, its priority tasks, its organisation and its operation. Its chairman plays a crucial role in defending the vision defined, as in any public institution or even any association, by the board of directors, responsible for the Director General to implement it, by implementing the decisions of the board of directors. Under the conditions laid down in the Environmental Code, the Council may delegate to the Director General some of its powers. It is also responsible for "the operation and organization of all services as well as the management of personnel", including the services exercising the administrative or judicial police powers of water and nature. In accordance with the prerogatives of each, so far this organisation has enabled the proper execution of police missions. The essential balance between prevention and repression is preserved by the administrative police, which plays a preventive role and by the prefects who issue individual titles or territorial regulations. Prior to the controls, the awareness of users of the rules applicable to nature protection is also essential for them to comply with them. Downstream controls ensure proper application between users. In the event of non-compliance, penalties may be imposed by the administrative or judicial authority, whose thresholds and ceilings are regulated by the Environmental Code. The OFB's interventions are part of this framework. Control planning is devolved locally in the inter-service missions of water and nature, under the dual authority of the prefect and the prosecutor. These missions, in turn, set out the national monitoring strategy and ensure awareness-raising among users. The objective and performance contract of the institution, which is being finalized, aims to understand the police mission as a whole, ensuring the balance between prevention and repression.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u193	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u194	We must ensure that, on the ground, everyone understands the role of each actor. The prosecutor enforces the law, the sworn agents act on behalf of the prosecutors and the judiciary and the prefect is the interlocutor of elected officials and operators on the ground. However, relations are tense between these different actors, who can oppose each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u195	The floor is open to Mr. Thomas Rudigoz, to put his question, No. 1570, concerning the cable car project between Lyon and Francheville.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u196	I wish to alert the Government to the policy pursued by the environmental executive bodies of the city and the metropolis of Lyon, which takes place too regularly by projects that divide, such as the cable car between Lyon and Francheville. This EUR 200 million project was not the subject of any demand from the population and will certainly not be able to decongest road traffic in the West of Lyon, even though this is its object. On an ideological front, the remarkable landscape of the hill of Sainte-Foy-lès-Lyon and Fourvière is being disfigured: cabins would fly over houses and residences, and towers would be installed in public parks. I recall that the cable car project was not included in the programme of environmentalists, candidates for municipal elections in the city of Lyon and the metropolis. Just a year ago, it appeared as if by magic in the SYTRAL road map, the joint transport union for the Rhône and the Lyon agglomeration, without, of course, prior consultation; Unfortunately, this method of work is now emblematic of environmental governance in Lyon. The least we can say is that the cable car does not arouse the enthusiasm of the inhabitants of Greater Lyon. To realize this, local elected officials surveyed their population; the result is no call. Here are some figures: in the second arrondissement of Lyon, which is part of my constituency, almost 80% of the population rejects the cable car project. The results of the consultative referendum held ten days ago by the communes of Sainte-Foy-lès-Lyon and La Mulatière are clear: more than 95 per cent of the votes cast are against the project and the turnout was equal to that of the last municipal elections; That is to say, the mobilization against the project. However, it was with astonishment that at the beginning of October, we learned that the project had been retained by the state as part of calls for clean-site public transport projects – TCSP. Of course, Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that the Government is allocating €80 million to improve transport in the metropolis of Lyon. However, I regret that the cable car project is one of the selected files; We have made this clear to the minister responsible for transport, with my colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, Member of Parliament for the twelfth constituency of the Rhône. More than €7 million could be allocated to the project. I do not hide from you that we would rather like these credits to be allocated to another project, that of the metro that will serve the West of Lyon, whose issues of service and attendance are otherwise important. Still, this project must be retained by the president of Lyon's metropolis. As a member of the majority and elected metropolitan to listen to the inhabitants of my territory, I would ask you to confirm that this announcement does not prejudge in any way the final realization of the cable car, which must depend on the outcome of the public debate that will soon be launched and the expectations of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u197	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u198	You alert us to the State's support for the cable car project between Lyon and Francheville, defended by the SYTRAL; Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you, on behalf of the Minister responsible for transport, that urban transport policy is decentralised and that SYTRAL is the competent organising authority in the Lyon agglomeration. It is not for the State to substitute itself for the latter in the choice of its projects. The State supports clean-site public transport projects, including calls for projects. The cable transport project referred to was presented by SYTRAL during the last call for such projects. From a technical point of view, the board considered that it met the criteria of its specifications. The project was therefore able to benefit from the financial support promised to the winners. SYTRAL launched a public consultation on the project on 15 November last; It will be up to the Commission to finally assess the opportunity to complete this project. The call for expressions of interest in clean transport does not prejudge in any way the outcome of this public debate, which will be completed, which is a sine qua non for launching the work. The State shall ensure that all procedures for consultation and authorization are scrupulously followed by the contracting authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u199	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u200	Thank you for your answer. Of course, it goes without saying that the State does not have to replace local and regional authorities. Nevertheless, it can choose the projects to which it allocates funding. I understand that the project was selected by a jury; It is a pity that the juries do not consult the deputies, elected as close to their territory as the representatives of the territorial authorities. It's a general reflection. We could have explained to the jury how bad this project is for this territory and how it will disfigure the remarkable hill of Fourvière and Sainte-Foy-lès-Lyon. I insist: the Government must be very vigilant. The outcome of the public debate will be the same as the referendum held on the communes of Sainte-Foy-lès-Lyon and La Mulatière. As I recall, there is no appeal: more than 95 per cent of the votes cast rejected the project and the turnout reached 44 per cent, as much as in the municipal elections. Following the results of the public debate which I do not wish to prejudge, although I already have an idea in the light of those of the referendum, I hope that the Government will be very attentive and will not follow up on this financial commitment; appropriations may be allocated to other projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u201	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor to put his question, No. 1577, on mobility in the Loire department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u202	I would like to alert the Government about the situation of decarbonized mobility in the Loire department, particularly in the Loire Forez community of agglomeration and in the Stéphanois metropolis. Traffic on roads and railway lines reached saturation, particularly on the A47 motorway and on the railway line between Lyon and Saint-Étienne, one of the oldest in France and one of the most used after those of Île-de-France. In recent years, my constituency, located in the centre of the Loire, including the communes of Andrézieux-Bouthéon, Saint-Galmier, Veauche and La Fouillouse, has undergone major demographic and economic changes. The mobility of cars and railways has reached saturation levels in these areas. The question of transfers of economic activity and of car flows arises to the east as well as to the west. Indeed, a section of 40 kilometres of railway between the communes of Böen-sur-Lignon and Thiers, in the department of Puy-de-Dôme, has been closed for some years and no longer allows to go by train from Lyon and Saint-Étienne to Clermont-Ferrand. In this context, the A45 motorway project, aimed at connecting the communes of Andrézieux-Bouthéon and La Fouillouse, located near Saint-Étienne, Lyon, has been abandoned. In view of the problems of connection in the West of Lyon, this could be agreed. However, the Government had committed itself – and I believe it is still committed – to allocating national funds, initially intended for the A45 motorway, to improve mobility in the territory of the Niger, particularly in the centre and south of the Loire department. So, Madam Secretary of State, I wanted to ask you about the mobility star that is currently moving from Saint-Étienne to the limits of the Stéphanois agglomeration, in the commune of Andrézieux-Bouthéon, which is located at the crossing of major motorways and railway lines and could indeed constitute a multimodal pole. Would there be an interest in creating it? How can we envisage the future of the 40 kilometres of railway between Böen-sur-Lignon and Thiers, linking Lyon-Saint-Étienne to Clermont-Ferrand, important cities in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region? Is the creation of a regional express network (RER) between Saint-Étienne and Lyon possible? Some even talk about creating a RER between Lyon and Andrézieux-Bouthéon, on the way to the A45 motorway, which would be a nice decarbonized nose foot to the ambition to build new motorways. At this stage, we have never heard the mobility organising authorities, particularly the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, make proposals on these issues; We don't have solutions. I would like to know the Government's commitments, as it is an important place for the concentration of economic activity and for the flow of cars and railways.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u203	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u204	You draw my attention to the mobility difficulties encountered in the Loire department. The Deputy Minister responsible for Transport is in charge of my response and I myself have an emotional memory of the discussions we had on this subject during the review of the Mobility Orientation Act (LOM). I confirm that the 400 million euro state funding, initially allocated to the A45 motorway project, is well reserved for investment in alternative solutions to improve mobility between the two metropolises of Saint-Étienne and Lyon. Concertation with local authorities is ongoing under the auspices of the Prefect of the Region, in order to determine the programming of the actions to be carried out in the corridor and to develop a multiannual financial framework. This programming will include both a road component, focused on intermodality, and a rail component. As regards the road and intermodal aspects, the main actions could be to improve the car parks serving the stations, to create a carpooling lane on the A7 motorway south of Lyon, to process the Givors-Ternay road node and to improve the node between the A450 and A7 motorways. As far as the rail side is concerned, the alternative solutions to the A45 reached a major breakthrough in 2021, as you know, thanks to the signing on 16 January of regional recovery agreements by the Prime Minister. These agreements provide for the commitment by 2022 of 200 million euros, including 100 million from the State, to improve the alternative transport offer to the road between Lyon and Saint-Étienne. The recovery agreement favours the rapid improvement of the existing railway line, its robustness and the transport offer, as well as comfort and passenger services. As early as 2021, nearly 75 million euros were delegated by the State for railway operations, in particular for the financing of the new regional express transport trainsets (TERs) as well as the maintenance workshop and the insertion routes of the Saint-Étienne Châteaucreux station. As a result, the region will have the means to strengthen the existing rail transport service by increasing the port capacity of trains by 50 per cent. With regard to the future of the Boën-Thiers section, it is the responsibility of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region to launch a study to assess needs and consider rehabilitation. If a viable project emerges, the State is fully prepared to support the territorial actors in this process, as part of the Government's plan to win back the small railway lines with the voluntary regions. Unfortunately, I confirm that the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region has still not wanted to take this step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u205	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to put his question, No. 1581, on line 15 of the Grand Paris Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u206	The work of the Bondy station, on line 15 of the Grand Paris Express operated by the Société du Grand Paris (SGP), raises many questions and misunderstandings. Indeed, the land planned for the excavation and installation of the construction site would not be large enough to store the waste generated by the work. The GSP would therefore consider installing a treadmill over the SNCF tracks to reach land on the other side of the station. The garbage would be stored there temporarily and then evacuated daily by trucks. This solution envisaged by the GSP poses many problems. First, it would lead to the unfortunate and forced expropriation of residents, for a land on which there will eventually be no infrastructure of the Grand Paris Express, because the only project envisaged is that of a real estate promotion. Is the GSP's will here to make real estate speculation? In addition, this land is located in front of a crèche, which would cause a lot of nuisances for children. Secondly, it would condemn the only pedestrian bridge accessible to persons with reduced mobility (PMR) allowing for crossing the railway tracks. Finally, a large flow of trucks would pass on an absolutely inadequate road on a daily basis. As you will understand, Madam Secretary of State, this solution proposed by the GSP is massively rejected by the residents. They do not understand that the GSP rejects absolutely all the alternative proposals drawn up by a former SNCF engineer, a member of the collective, who has done a colossal work, in which he demonstrates that more respectful solutions for the inhabitants and the environment are possible. Last Saturday, 300 inhabitants protested against this project. The GSP must hear them. Madam Secretary of State, you must hear them. Together with the members of the collective, we are ready to welcome you to Bondy to show you the many aberrations of the choice chosen by the GSP. I ask you to bring together the GSP and the SNCF and to instruct them to carry out a serious study on the feasibility of the alternative solution which would have the advantage of preserving the living environment of the residents and their environment. Indeed, there are many possibilities. There are many wasteland under the highway that await only that. The GSP already has 8000 square meters for its construction site; Therefore, it does not need an additional deported area. Many construction sites are implemented on a smaller area, on Magenta Boulevard or Haussmann Boulevard. Should Bondynois be treated differently? Evacuation by conveyor belts along the rail of the tramway leading to the depot is possible and saves the environment. The Bondynois have proposed alternative solutions but the Société du Grand Paris refuses to listen to us. We need your help, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u207	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u208	The construction of the future station of Line 15 of the Grand Paris Express in Bondy is the subject of special attention by the Société du Grand Paris, which is the owner of the station. On the basis of the observation that the construction site cannot be carried out on the only right-of-way located on the site of the station, which is too small, as you know, the Société du Grand Paris has studied, since 2017, all possible complementary rights-of-way, with the aim of finding a right-of-way to the nearest one, to allow the transport of materials without going through the city centre of Bondy. This led to the choice of the right-of-way chosen by the steering committee, in association with the local elected representatives. The whole process has been the subject of extensive consultation with all stakeholders. Following the 2017 public survey, the specific dialogue with the residents concerned began in autumn 2020. A new public survey in 2021 provided an opportunity to interact with residents. Finally, the SGP organized several public meetings dedicated to this project in July and September, which were an opportunity to discuss this project with citizens again. Specific support for local residents is provided. The crèche you mention is the subject of every attention, in consultation with the department and the elected representatives. For example, demolition schedules have been adapted to avoid the nuisances generated for children during the nap. Finally, the right-of-way you are proposing has been studied but could not be considered as a complete alternative because it does not allow the construction of a safe conveyor belt along rail traffic. However, it is being studied in the design-realization market as a complementary right-of-way to the first two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u209	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to put his question, No. 1568, concerning the national road 7 in the Allier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u210	Continuing the two-lane road transformation of the RN7 in the Allier, notably for the so-called Trévol Bar Section and the bypass of Bessay-sur-Allier, is a necessity. I repeat myself, you'll tell me. You're right, because this is not the first time I've asked you about this. Actually, I do it every year. But it must be noted that things have not changed, or so little. In memory, the Allier elected representatives accepted the principle of the concession of the Central-Atlantic Europe (RCEA) road by laying down three conditions, including the State's commitment to devote the funds thus saved to the setting up of twice two tracks of the RN7 crossing the department. However, much remains to be done to continue this double-tracking in the Allier and to achieve the objectives that the elected representatives had set themselves. The Trévol bar to join the RN7-RCEA interchange taken into account in the concession as well as the bypass of Bessay-sur-Allier are still at the stage of the studies. Same for the extension of the deviation from Varennes-sur-Allier to Saint-Loup. Anyway, it's not moving! We all know that improving infrastructure is essential to the economic development and attractiveness of the Allier, not to mention safety. Since the state has been financially disengaged from the double-tracking of the RN79, also known as the RCEA, it must now significantly postpone its efforts on the RN7, as agreed. vague promises are made but we still have no visibility on future actions. That's enough! Let's stop the promises! What about today's double-tracking of the RN7 in the Allier?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u211	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u212	Thank you for giving us the opportunity to make with you a point of step on setting twice two lanes of the RN7 in the Allier. The RN7 represents a major challenge, both for transit traffic as an alternative route to the A6 motorway between Paris and Lyon, but also for serving the territories it crosses, in particular the Allier. As such, the State, in collaboration with the local authorities, is carrying out an extensive two-way programme for this route. In the Allier department, under the current state-region plan contract, an investment of more than 50 million euros, entirely provided by the State, was realized, allowing the completion of the deviation of Varennes-sur-Allier, put into service in 2016, and the realization of the deviation of Villeneuve-sur-Allier, in service since July 2021. Among the last sections remaining to be developed in two ways in the department of Allier, the deviation of Bessay-sur-Allier, the bar of Trévol and the extension of the deviation from Varennes to Saint-Loup, are intended to be part of the future mobility contract which will be committed from 2023. To prepare for this deadline, the State is already fully committed: the funds required for the studies of the three operations mentioned above have been in place since 2020 and will continue to be in place in 2022. These studies make it possible to prepare, both technically and procedurally, the conduct of these operations with the aim of their inclusion in the future contract, provided that the local authorities confirm the priority they attach to them and commit themselves to the side of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u213	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u214	Be reassured, Madam Secretary of State, the local authorities have already confirmed for too long that these investments are a priority. We pulled a thorn out of the foot of the state by accepting the motorway concession. We simply ask for promises to be kept and we do not want double penalty: pay to borrow the RCEA and not see the RN7 taken into consideration. For us, this situation is becoming totally unacceptable! Through this question, I am the spokesperson for all the elected representatives of the department, all political tendencies combined, who have been able to come together to take on their responsibilities. We expect the state to do the same and act fast. I invite the minister delegated to the minister of the ecological transition, responsible for transport, Jean-Baptiste Djebari, to come and see what the situation is on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u215	Mr Alain Ramadier, speaking on question No 1580, by Mr Éric Pauget, on the artificialisation of the soil and the SRU law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u216	Madam Secretary of State, I apologize for the absence of Mr Eric Pauget, who is prevented this morning. No artificialisation of the soil and, at the same time, the production of social housing under the SRU law: these two obligations difficult to reconcile, because they are contradictory, force strongly the 1100 "carencées" communes of our country. Faced with this contradiction, the popular adage "To the impossible, no one is held" is applicable to them. Indeed, Madam Secretary of State, with regard to housing, the Government is pursuing a real policy of stop and go. On the one hand, you ask the mayors to stop any concreteization and on the other hand, you put them to the fine when they do not meet the objectives of the SRU law, and this is often in spite of important construction efforts. The Alpes-Maritimes district where Éric Pauget is elected is a particularly emblematic example of this ubiquitous situation. Six out of seven municipalities with more than 3500 inhabitants are "carencées" there: Antibes, Vallauris Golfe-Juan, Biot, Roquefort-les-Pins, Tourrettes-sur-Loup, Le Rouret. This is not because they would be resisting these measures, but the imposed target of production of 2,000 social housing units per year in one territory, which in this case consists of 83 % of natural spaces, 50 % of which in the forest, is simply inaccessible! In order to achieve these objectives, they would have to carry out an intensive construction policy and transform their city centres. Madam Secretary of State, is this the "happy density" you are considering for tomorrow? This ubiquitous situation arouses incomprehension, discouragement and even anger among local elected officials who are already confronted with the maquis of too many regulatory texts. Indeed, it is clear that the "zero net artificialisation" policy of soils superimposed on the SRU law cannot be applied uniformly, as it does not have the same impact throughout the national territory. It is therefore imperative to act with discernment and to pursue a policy encouraging territorialisation, differentiation and experimentation, depending on whether one is located in an urbanised area or on a territory already heavily constrained. While Bill 3DS is under discussion in Parliament, the Government cannot make any profound reflection on a desirable amendment of the SRU law in this direction. So, Madam Secretary of State, what measures do you intend to take to adapt the SRU system to the specificities of the territories and thus to the local realities, in order to remedy this worrying situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u217	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u218	More than 20 years after its adoption, the law of solidarity and urban renewal, and in particular its article 55, to which you refer, remains a fundamental component of French housing policy. As you said, it currently leads to a catch-up of the social rental offer in 1100 communes in deficit, 280 of which, at the end of the three-year review 2017-2019, were the subject of a finding of deficiency. While in many municipalities the social housing production path respects the objectives set by the law, the finding is widely shared that the current legislative framework needs to be improved in order to be made more sustainable and adaptable to the realities of each territory, without questioning its ambition. That is the meaning of the provisions contained in the 3DS bill, which you are also considering. This bill is characterized by three significant developments: it perpetuates the three-year catch-up mechanism which had previously run counter to the "wall of 2025"; it revises the reference level of the three-year targets by setting it at 33 % of the social housing deficit, compared with 50 % for the current three-year period; Finally, it allows the mayor and the prefect, in association with the president of the public institution of intercommunal cooperation (EPCI), to adapt this rate of reference to the situation of each municipality, by concluding a social mix contract. The Senate chose to retain these three pillars when it considered the text last summer. That shows the consensus around this triptych. The upper chamber, however, has diminished the incentive for certain provisions in force, which the Government wishes to see restored in order to maintain its ambition of the scheme and to maintain its overall balance. It is indeed this principle of balance that guides us, including in the essential reconciliation of the objectives pursued by public policies. Thus, there is no reason to oppose the search for mix in the housing offer to the necessary preservation of natural spaces or the reduction of the artificialisation of soils. These objectives can be reconciled through the mobilization of land available in urbanized areas, urban renewal or the mobilization of existing housing stock. The Government had also heard the local authorities and, in the context of the consideration of Bill 3DS, had advocated an amendment to leave the territories six more months for the territorialization of the objectives of reducing the rate of artificialization in regional urban planning documents, in order to ensure the serene application of that trajectory. As you can see, MP, the Government is acting in a pragmatic manner and in consultation with all stakeholders to reconcile everyone's access to affordable housing with an ecological imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u219	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-07-O1086.u220	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Tribute of Olivier Dassault; Following the discussion of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. The meeting is adjourned.
