ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the social security agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Institute for Security Studies of the European Union (No 3016, 4487). As this text has not been amended, I shall put it directly to the vote, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u2	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the approval of the declaration on the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guiana Space Centre (No. 3596 corrected, 4488).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u3	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u4	Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are here this evening to discuss the bill that authorizes the approval of the 2017 declaration on the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guiana Space Centre – CSG. You will allow me to think for all those who work in this territory to stem the spread of the pandemic. The Minister for Overseas Affairs, as you know, was a few days ago in Guyana to oversee the health measures deployed on the spot. Despite these trials, I would like to recall how much Guyana has. Remember that General de Gaulle said in 1964, when he chose to locate this centre there: "All regions of the world will know where Guyana is. It is true that we have high-quality infrastructure there. Our space industry is plagued by major competition, intra-European, but also and especially American and Asian. In this context, it is imperative to continue European space investments and to continue breaking innovations in this sector, building on the new generation of launchers. This is the whole meaning of Sébastien Lecornu's inauguration of the new launch pad for Ariane rockets in Kourou a few days ago. We are also equipping ourselves with the necessary means to preserve this French technological know-how: the recovery plan thus devotes 500 million euros to the space sector. While investment at national level remains important, our ambition can only be achieved through strong and structured European inter-State cooperation. Recent developments in armaments have the merit of illustrating a fundamental issue: European sovereignty must be based on secure alliances with our European partners. In this context, the European Space Agency plays a major role, as well as the National Centre for Space Studies (CNES), our national space agency. In order to bring European ambitions to bear in the context of accelerating exploration projects carried out by the major space powers and increasingly intense competition between public and private actors in the sector, the European Space Agency (ESA) relies on three launchers: Ariane 5, to which Ariane 6, Vega and Soyuz will soon succeed. The text, signed by eighteen European States, which is now before you, is the instrument governing the governance of the operation of these launchers at the Guyana Space Centre. It is a genuine intergovernmental agreement that follows the declaration of the same name adopted years ago. The implementation of this declaration has led to the launch of approximately seventy-five European institutional satellites that have covered strategic needs in the fields of defence, navigation and observation. Today it is proposed to take into account the increasing responsibility of the industrial contractors Arianespace, ArianeGroup and the Italian company Avio for the construction of Vega. The agreement specifies in particular the entities responsible for the operation in a devolution logic. The States Parties shall entrust the European Space Agency with a mandate to ensure compliance with the declaration by these industrialists. The legal responsibility for launchings is divided, according to a scheme specific to each launcher, between the French State, the European Space Agency and the launch operator Arianespace. Finally, the agreement provides for a principle of European preference in terms of launch – I know that this point has been debated in your committee. It is a strong commitment of France, helping to achieve European strategic autonomy, but let us be very clear: France will continue to work to ensure that the scope of application of this principle of preference extends in the years to come and that it becomes more assertive than incentive. There is still progress to be made here, because it is an essential dimension for Europe to take control of its destiny in this area. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are, briefly, the key issues of the text being debated this evening. I am sure he will come to reinforce the contribution that the CSG's activity represents to a territory dear to our heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u5	Mr Lenaïck Adam, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have received the task of presenting to you the statement on the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guiana Space Centre. A first version of the declaration had been adopted on 30 March 2007. The second, which we are looking at today, is December 2017. The National Assembly was seized first. The negotiation phase of this agreement took place between 2015 and 2017 within the European Space Agency. Finally, this intergovernmental agreement brings together eighteen of the twenty-two ESA Member States. To illustrate the importance of this agreement, I will first introduce you to the Guiana Space Centre and its strategic character for Europe and France. The Guiana Space Centre has three world-renowned launchers: Ariane 5, Vega and Soyuz. Ariane 5 is a heavy launcher, used since 1996. It is able to target any orbit – low, medium, geostationary, liberation orbit – and to place loads of up to 20 tons. This iconic launcher is considered one of the most reliable in the world. He flew his 110th flight last July, the 254th flight of the Ariane family. Soyuz is a famous Russian intermediate launcher whose first launch at the CSG dates back to 2011. It can transport satellites of five tons in low orbit and three tons in geostationary orbit. Vega is a light launcher, the first launch date of 2012 and responding to the growing demand for small satellites sent to low orbit. In 2022, two new launchers will be operated at the CSG: Ariane 6 and Vega-C. The Ariane 6 project has been designed since 2014 to reduce the duration and cost of launch procedures. Manufacturing methods have been simplified and technical performance improved. The project required the construction between 2015 and 2020 of a new state-of-the-art launch package, including a 100-metre high "Cathedral" of steel weighing 6000 tonnes, the weight of the Eiffel Tower. This innovative structure will frame the launcher and will be able to retract at the time of launch thanks to trolleys powered by more than 100 engines. The Secretary of State recalled, we inaugurated yesterday with Sébastien Lecornu this no shooting in Kourou. European launchers, and more specifically Ariane, are the symbol of European space policy, which has been built gradually since the 1970s and has been marked by many successes. Between 1988 and 2003, Ariane 4 benefited from two thirds of the world's commercial launches, far ahead of the United States. Thanks to the CSG, Europe has occupied and still occupies a leading position in the global market for launch services. The CSG also allows European programmes to be sent independently. Among the best known programmes, I will mention Galileo, the European satellite positioning system, and the Rosetta probe, the first to have approached a comet and placed a lander there. The CSG thus provides Europe with autonomous access to space. Access to space is increasingly strategic. Many civilian and military technologies now depend on satellites. Space activities also have a leverage effect on a variety of economic sectors, including through the use of space data. Beyond Europe, the CSG is also indispensable to France. It plays a major role in the economic development of Guyana. It covers 700 square kilometres, twice the size of Mayotte and half that of Martinique, and its activity accounts for 15% of the GDP of Guyana's territory. About 450 companies and 4600 jobs are related to the space sector. The centre is also a major player in Guyanese tourism: outside the period of covid -19, tourists attend the launches, visit the facilities and the museum of Space. In 2019, it had welcomed 25,000 visitors. These activities are all the more valuable since the economic and social context is now difficult in Guyana: in the first quarter of 2021 the unemployment rate was 12.7%, according to INSEE. Yet, for many Guyanans, the continuation of space activities may have seemed uncertain. The Ariane 6 project was delayed by technical problems and the health crisis. Launches were interrupted between March and August 2020 and the Ariane 6-ground site was slowed down. ArianeGroup has just announced the abolition of 600 jobs in France and Germany by the end of 2022. The European space industry is facing increasing international competition. There are more institutional and commercial space actors than in the past. New private sector actors from Silicon Valley and GAFAM have developed their space activities using digital industry methods. They have become inescapable – I am of course thinking of Space X and Blue Origin. However, it is important to remember that these actors are partly funded by NASA and the US Department of Defense. They benefit from public contracts and technology transfers. In parallel, the demand for satellites has evolved. It now focuses primarily on the low orbit and the satellites are smaller. These satellites are sometimes organized around constellations: this is SpaceX's Starlink project. In the face of this very strong international competition, the European space industry is not yet sufficiently competitive. It does not have, for example, a reusable launcher technology similar to that developed by the American company SpaceX, which is highly publicized. In this context, updating the declaration of 30 March 2007 is essential. It provides a legal framework for the exploitation of European launchers. I will now present the 2017 declaration to you. The launcher operation phase includes the manufacture of launchers, their integration, launch operations and marketing activities. In addition, for future Ariane 6 and Vega-C launchers, the operation includes the activities necessary to maintain the compliance of launch systems with relevant ESA operating agreements. The main innovation of the 2017 declaration is presented in Section I. The agreement gives more responsibility to the industrial contractors, ArianeGroup and Avio, for the operation of Ariane 6 and Vega-C launchers. For these two launchers, the operation is no longer entrusted solely to the Arianespace launch service provider, as is the case for Ariane 5, Vega and Soyuz, but also to the Ariane 6 and Vega-C industrial contractors, who become responsible for the manufacture and integration of their launcher and will have to assume the risks of commercial exploitation. The agreement thus takes note of the rise in power of industrial contractors in the exploitation of launchers. The rest of the text is largely based on the previous version of 2007. It once again affirms a principle of preference for the use of European launchers for institutional missions. If this principle is necessary to defend European space, it is regrettable that it is not really binding on the parties. France has come up against the reluctance of other States. As in the 2007 version, Section II of the Agreement provides for ESA to ensure that the text is applied. Similarly, the liability regime provided for in section IV is maintained. France, referred to as the "launching State", still assumes a very large part of the financial liability for damage caused to a third party. For Ariane launches, the French government even bears the entire financial burden. Section V of the Agreement specifies that the text will enter into force once two thirds of the 2007 parts have notified the Director General of ESA in writing that they agree to become a party. At the beginning of September 2021, only six out of eighteen States had ratified the declaration: Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Germany and Italy, which have not yet taken the necessary steps, are missing from the appeal. For States that become parties, the 2017 Declaration will replace the previous 2007 Agreement. It will be in force until 2035. In conclusion, this intergovernmental agreement reduces uncertainty about the CSG's activity in the medium term by securing the legal framework for the launcher operation phase. In order to maintain the CSG's activity in the long term, however, ESA Member States will have to continue to commit to space Europe. They will have to finance ever more innovative projects in order to resist international competition, in particular that of US private actors. ESA's latest announcements, which provide for a minimum number of institutional launches for the first three years of operation of Ariane 6 and Vega-C, were necessary. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now call on you to vote in favour of approving this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u7	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u8	Our rapporteur has outlined to you the lines of action of the intergovernmental agreement concluded on 4 December 2017 between eighteen Member States of the European Space Agency: firstly, the responsibilities and obligations related to the operation of Ariane and Vega launchers developed by the European Space Agency and the Soyuz launcher operated by the Guiana Space Centre; Secondly, the sustainability of financing and the renewal of the legal framework for the exploitation of launchers; thirdly, the allocation of greater responsibilities to ArianeGroup and Avio industrialists against Arianespace, which provides the launch service. Beyond these provisions, I will stress one point: through this agreement, we are seeking to strengthen the competitiveness of European launchers, and therefore of the Guiana Space Centre, in a strategic area. Space has indeed become crucial for our defence, for our security, but also, among other things, for our economy – especially digital – for our applied and fundamental research, or for our observation and communication capabilities. The agreement certainly proclaims a principle of preference for institutional missions, which we like, but all members of the committee have expressed regret that it is not really binding. You have indeed hesitated to make it an incentive or an affirming one. As for us, we want it to be normative. The objective is to continue to ensure independent access to space. This agreement is therefore part of the great ambition to build a strategic autonomy of the European Union. It is also an opportunity to recall the successes of space Europe. Europe has in the past been able to propose real technological breaks, of which Ariane is the symbol. Ariane 4 and Ariane 5 enabled Europe to conquer two thirds of the world market for commercial satellites in the 1990s, far ahead of the United States, then traumatized, alas, by the tragic accident of the shuttle Challenger in 1986. The Guiana Space Centre is probably still the best space port in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u9	Thank you, de Gaulle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u10	We are proud to see this remote region and so close at the same time be the showcase of the most perfect French modernity. France has special responsibilities and mobilizes very important financial and human resources. This agreement reinforces our position. It will apply until the end of 2035. It's a solid point. Nevertheless, we must not forget the threats to European commercial launches. International competition has increased in recent years, with the arrival of states such as China and soon India, and especially US private companies that quickly demonstrated their ability to innovate. We are therefore faced with a double competition, a double threat: a geopolitical threat marked by the rise in power of the technological giants of the Pacific and a capitalist threat characterized by the triumphant dynamism – meritorious, moreover, in many respects – of private actors competing with the states.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u11	We denounce the capitalist threat, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq also applauds]] We believe that Europeans are far from having taken the full measure of the efforts to be made, of the innovations to be multiplied and of the changes to be made in the urgency if we are to retain the prominent place that has been and must continue to be ours. The European space industry must emerge from the maze in which too many years and too many actors have pushed it, but the only way that will be available, the only thread of Ariane, will, of course, be innovation. She's the one to play, and she's the one to play.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u13	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u14	The text we are considering today had to be adopted under the simplified procedure. This would have allowed the Government to scramble an indispensable discussion. However, I do not know any political leader who would argue that the space issue deserves the greatest attention. France is the second nation in the world to contribute to the financing of space research. This state-of-the-art sector contributes to national defence and sovereignty in a decisive way. It still contributes to the scientific and cultural reach of our country. It is even a real issue of civilization – isn't humanity this species that always looks to the stars, hoping to find a meaning to its destiny and an origin to its existence? And yet, today, we live in a world where the stars no longer shine. How many of our children have never seen the Milky Way? At the same time, billionaires appropriate space and view this new frontier of humanity as a Far West for which they can conquer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u15	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u16	As you can see, the stakes are immense. And we could refrain from considering the only text of the legislature relating to space policy? The Members of La France insoumée did not accept it and, once again, provoked a debate which the executive wanted to avoid in order to mask the weakness of its balance sheet. In reality, this is not even a weakness, but a slow shipwreck, caused by a real lack of vision and naivety in front of the iceberg of Germany's hegemonic claims. Of course, we can take pride in some scientific successes. The French contribution to the Martian missions led by the United States and China makes France a unique space power. In addition to its contribution to knowledge, it gives an idea of what space diplomacy can do for cooperation and peace. The long dialogue between French and Russian agencies for decades has been another example. We are still cooperating on a future lunar mission. Another success is, of course, the presence of Thomas Pesquet in the international space station, which is an irreplaceable showcase and a major incentive not to lag behind history. It is hoped that the sharing of his experience will have led to thousands of vocations of scientists, engineers, spationauts, ecologists, but also of inveterate dreamers, poets and artists. Gagarin and Armstrong had succeeded, transcending the divisions involved in the cold war. However, these successes cannot conceal a situation characterized by the privatisation of the space industry and space itself, the weakening of the CNES, the downgrading of France within the European Space Agency, the taking of the ascendant of Germany, the progressive confinement of our policy in a mercantile approach, the attentism of our diplomacy when it comes to guaranteeing effective regulations against the grabbing of resources and the militarization of space. For several years, the French space sector has been subjected to the assaults of tough international competition, but also to the blows of our so-called friends, and we accept it on the pretext of European integration. The latest example is striking: the CEO of ArianeGroup announced last week the abolition of 600 posts, but also the relocation of the production of the Vinci engine. This cryotechnical engine, which is a key part of the future Ariane 6 launcher, will no longer be manufactured at the Vernon site in Normandy, but in Ottobrunn, Bavaria, where tests on the Vulcan engine are already being carried out and the qualification tests are already planned in Germany. And Bruno Le Maire gives his blessing to such avanie! However, France is the largest contributor to launchers' activities within ESA, with 50% funding, while Germany contributes only 20%. As for the Vernon site, it has already lost 20% of its staff in recent years, but what would we not do to please our German friends? For years, German intentions are no longer in doubt. Since its 2010 White Paper, it is clear that our neighbour is aiming for European supremacy in space. Since 2017, acts confirming his intentions have multiplied. The most emblematic date is November 2019: Germany has become ESA's leading contributor, and it is determined to apply the principle of "who pays decides" as strictly as possible. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] The Government did not think it was right to defend the French position and capitulated in a raven. The effects of this renunciation will not be long overdue: Germany takes over the leadership in the field of mini-launchers. In November 2020, three German start-ups in the sector received grants from ESA. One of them, Isar Aerospace, obtained in April 2021 a contract with Airbus, who was nevertheless a member of ArianeGroup. Soon, regardless of the marketed service, Germany will still be in a position to provide it and benefit from it. In April 2021, the same German start-up, Isar Aerospace, entered into an agreement with Norway to be able to make its launches there. In doing so, it helps to marginalize the role of the Guiana space centre and, if we do not take care of it, Kurou will soon be a second-class port. In May 2021, it was the German state that entered into a contract with the same Isar Aerospace. It's curious, because there was a minilancer project at Arianespace – Sparrow – which, strangely, was arrested in 2017... Germany probably did not see itself making a European cake that should have been shared: it is now in the process of making a strictly German cake. It is clear that there is no mutually acceptable dependence on German leaders. They cannot be blamed: they were elected to defend German interests. I know that these observations will provoke protests. I should therefore like to quote the reply that the German Government itself has given to a questionnaire from the European Union. Just a few months ago, he was sorry to Brussels that "until now there is no European competition possible in the current categories of Ariane – and Vega – launchers, while living competition is emerging in the field of micro-launchers throughout Europe. The next logical step would be to develop this competition on launch systems and heavier payloads." You're warned! And to top it all off, on September 6, the German government formalized its support for the project to launch mini-launchers – known as GOSA – in the North Sea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u17	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u18	But I have only addressed the commercial aspect of the problem; This is indeed Germany's priority. However, it does not forget the military dimension of the space question. I must recall here how Berlin torn apart the Schwerin agreements of 2002, which provided for the sharing of competences in the field of observation satellites, and thus a mutually agreed dependence between France and Germany: France would develop the optical satellite sector while Germany would develop the radar satellite sector. In 2017, however, Germany chose to order two optical satellites from its industrial OHB for 400 million euros. Farewell the complementarity between the two nations! For years, France had been encouraged to underinvest in the electromagnetic field, and it was now necessary to climb the slope! How can our leaders still claim to trust their German counterparts? In the face of this, the Government is unable to propose a different horizon for a space policy that would be a factor for progress, peace and development in accordance with the national interest and the general human interest. He remains locked in outdated ideas, fascinated by an erroneous vision of the New Space's successes. The CNES, a decisive instrument for planning national space policy, has been so severely weakened in recent years that it has been relegated to the rank of mere operator among others. Instead of a strategist space State, the Government preferred to continue to apply the ordinary and ineffective methods of liberalism: privatization and competition. No wonder, you will tell me, that the start-up nation gets excited for space, considers it a juicy market and holds science for nothing but the soul supplement of a very lucrative industry. The fact is well established, however, that it can't work like this: the myth of successful private initiative in the space sector has been a long fire. Anyone who has looked for a second knows that the so-called industrial captains Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos, as well as their creatures SpaceX and Blue Origin, are nothing other than ticks sipped with public money – hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts with the US state! To imagine playing with equal arms in a supposedly competitive market in the face of opponents of this kind is seriously unreasonable! Especially since their economic model is not even fully profitable. In view of the serious damage they inflict on the environment and their disregard for the safety rules protecting populations overflew by their aircraft, it is regrettable that the French State is timid in contesting the disloyalty of such undertakings before the competent international bodies. In general, the Government has not once sought to influence the international scene in favour of a renewed regulation of space activities. He's been very attentive and he's been following me with drugs! Without vision or ambition, he refused to buy the OneWeb constellation while Airbus already had the essentials; He was even unable to get it bought by the European Union! This mess is amazing. The British, on the other hand, did not make the mistake of letting the opportunity pass: associated with an Indian group, they took over the flagship. The investment was so sensible that in a year, its value had just doubled. Instead, the European Commission wakes up two years late and in January 2021 commissions a feasibility study for perhaps one day to have its own constellation! Given the saturation of the low orbit, it is not even absurd to imagine that such a constellation would arrive too late. What can be said about the French follow-up in the military field? France must know how to do everything and protect itself against all kinds of aggression; It's obvious. Yet the spotlight of the Chinese threat and the Russian threat cannot satisfy any reasonable mind. Why not say anything about US activities in this area, or about Indian activities? India claims to have succeeded, on 27 March 2019, in detonating a satellite located 300 kilometres from Earth. Curious strategic partner of France as this country that commits the same kind of demonstrations of force as China! [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] In any case, the Government chose its story: good Americans, bad Russians and Chinese. And to please the good guys, nothing better than to imitate them! Thus, in July 2019, Emmanuel Macron announced the creation, on the American model, of a military command of space in Toulouse. And since the measure was not full, it had to be announced in February 2021 that it would have as its neighbour, in Toulouse therefore, the center of space excellence of NATO! Is that how France considers working against the militarization of space? By welcoming on its soil a space center of a military alliance? It is not enough to explain to us that NATO's military operations and its members benefit from our space information and communications, as this was the case long before the establishment of this centre of excellence! As for the installation in Toulouse of a myriad of NATO officers, therefore United States, it is to bring the wolf into the sheepfold: American intelligence has spyed on Angela Merkel and provided weapons to organize the purchase of Alstom, but we are asked to believe that he will not move a little finger in Toulouse? It would be touching if it weren't serious. In conclusion, I will briefly outline the kind of space project worthy of France. First of all, it means finding room for manoeuvre and no longer sacrificing the old moons of German Europe. Around a National Centre for Space Studies restored and strengthened in its role as a planner, this strategy would place science and the general human interest at the heart of its concerns. It would be based on partnerships with all leading space powers, but it would also make a major contribution to the emerging space powers, now present on all continents, including Africa. True to the universal ideal of France, this strategy would aim to put French excellence at the service of the greatest number and would refuse that at the banquet of space, some have everything and others have nothing. Access to space means providing services in transport, navigation, monitoring global warming, mapping, oceanography, demography and even archaeology, monitoring epidemics, changing animal populations and threatened natural environments. It is unimaginable that in the face of the ecological disaster that affects the whole of humanity, some reserve the use of space for their little comfort, while millions of others would suffer. [["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] A sovereign space strategy will be a diplomatic instrument at the service of our independence. It will make a decisive contribution to the promotion of a political, ambitious and egalitarian Francophonie, as Jean-Luc Mélenchon mentioned before the students of the University of Ouagadougou last July, proposing the creation of a francophone university of space. France's space strategy must promote discernment in the uses of space and reaffirm the inapplicability of space resources. The human epic dictates us to look to space. There is no reason to look at it anxiously or to get iced at the idea of the eternal silence of these infinite spaces. On the contrary, space is already populated: it is populated by humans, ideas and dreams. Space invites us to return to greatness; We must not be content with this condensed bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u19	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u20	Since Franco-German relations in the space field have been mentioned, I will say two words to twist the neck to a presentation with little nuance, that is the least we can say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u21	How to speak...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u22	...even though this includes a few months of important deadlines for the country, and although it seems that Mr Mélenchon has planned to visit Guyana shortly. This does not allow everything and several objective elements need to be recalled. The agreement with Germany is important. As you know, Germany has also launched independent national initiatives...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u23	Especially independent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u24	... in favour of the development of micro-launcher solutions. Therefore, it was crucial to frame these developments so as not to harm Ariane 6. Precisely, the agreement reached is balanced and secures the future of Ariane 6, as it sets the launch rate at seven Ariane 6 a year, a solid foundation. This launch rate will allow jobs to be sustained on the Vernon site and secure ArianeGroup as well as subcontracting and supplier chains; It's very important. I would add that under the terms of the agreement, France and Germany are committed to using Ariane 6 for their institutional launches and call on European countries to do the same on the basis of a harmonised launch price. You mention, Mr Lachaud, the transfer of the assembly, integration and testing activities of the engine in Germany, but you forget the industrial logics, in particular the integration of the upper stage and the engine, assembled in Germany, in line with the new distribution of the engines on a European scale: the class of the engines of 100 tons of thrust goes back to Vernon, while that of the engines of 10 tons of thrust goes back to Lampoldshausen, a village which you recalled the existence of. You also fail to state that France has obtained the manufacture of the oxygen turbopumps, which had to be produced in Italy in order to be transferred to Germany. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore better to have all the evidence to see that a balance has been reached. Moreover, the Vernon site is now turning its future towards the development of new reusable propulsion systems, including Prometheus. It was necessary to put things back in their place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u25	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Maud Gatel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u26	We fully share the ambition to strengthen European and French sovereignty in space matters. That is why I am not completely the reasoning of Mr Lachaud. We would have preferred the agreement to be more binding, as the chairman of the committee, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, said, but we must not simply watch the trains pass – or, in this case, launch the satellites – without reacting. The issue of sovereignty in defence and data requires us to modernise the framework as proposed in the 2017 declaration. We cannot stand by in the face of the emergence of new actors, state or capitalist. Clearly, we need to have the debate this evening and, therefore, we will vote against the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u27	Common sense has spoken!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u28	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u29	The motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the La France insoumée group is intended to reject the consideration of the bill authorizing the approval of the declaration relating to the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guiana space centre. The La République en marche group wishes to recall that this is a strong commitment of the European space community. The governments of eighteen Member States of the European Space Agency agreed on its text on 4 December 2017; We can congratulate ourselves on that. This declaration cannot wait any longer for France's approval. It gives the two industrial contractors, the French ArianeGroup and the Italian Avio, greater responsibilities during the operation phase of the launchers. This is the main novelty of this statement compared to the previous one. The agreement thus takes note of the rise of industrial contractors in the exploitation of future European launchers. This bill thus embodies the European space sovereignty to which we are very attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u30	What about the sovereignty of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u31	You will note that the declaration provides for a principle of preference for the use of European launchers by the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u32	Preference, it's all there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u33	The text invites them to take account of the existence of these launchers, both in their national programmes and in the European and other international programmes in which they participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u34	Germany contracts with others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u35	Again, it is an objective that we all share. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The La France insoumise group wishes to exclude the consideration of this bill on the pretext that it would be contrary to certain constitutional provisions. On the contrary, we believe that the adoption of this motion would be a bad blow to space Europe, but also to Guyana, which is particularly affected by the health crisis. In this respect, Mr Lenaïck Adam's excellent report highlights the structuring role of the space centre in the economic development of Guyana. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u36	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u37	I will begin by thanking the group La France insoumée who drew the first one; We could not be many to ask for the debate to take place in the Chamber, but it would have taken place in any event, as it seemed clear to us that the space issue was to be debated here during the parliamentary term. And because: the stakes are considerable. [[Mr. Bastien Lachaud acquiesce]] In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Pierre Cabaré and I are rapporteurs for a fact-finding mission on space diplomacy: we have heard from, I believe, a representative of the Canadian Space Agency. He explained to us that in Canada, the public financial commitment in this area was subject to debate with the public, in order to know how much the public consented to potting so that this Far West would not remain one. This is also the purpose of our mission, whose report, unfortunately, will only be presented in committee and not submitted to public debate. It is therefore obvious that tonight's discussion was necessary. [[The chairman of the committee applauds]] Our group agrees with much of what Mr Lachaud has said. However, it has not been established that any private enterprise can develop a space activity without considerable financial assistance from its State. So we are not yet at the point where private initiative would seize the space domain to make money there; To date, it needs significant public funds. I appreciate this motion for prior rejection, because it allows debate, because it gave Bastien Lachaud the opportunity to provide arguments, to show the question in all its faces: it had to be done. However, with regard to the specific purpose of our current discussion, I regret to say that I will not support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u38	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u39	[[Ms Caroline Fiat approved]] Thank you to Mr. Lachaud for putting the rocket back in the heart of the village. I'm sorry, but most of the things he said – a little too fast – were indeed well-founded. In addition, I fully agree with the words of my friend Jean-Paul Lecoq. This is not the land of wonders, we must begin to think, to discuss! We are bathed in commercialism, in liberalism, in a capitalism of space that becomes pure madness! We can tell us everything we want, but our friends don't really deserve that name anymore. We don't really know where we are anymore. We are in a very complex situation. But the space industry is essential to Guyana, which derives 20% of its gross national product (GNP); I have discussed this subject at length with Christiane Taubira, whom I know well. It is only for that latter reason, my colleague, although I fully understand your arguments and share many of them, that I will not vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u40	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u41	The European Union obviously needs a coherent, renewed, strong space policy, to which its main Member States contribute. I regret that Germany is somewhat behind in this operation. I repeat, Europe needs such solidarity; France also needs it. Conversely, space needs the European Union: as both have pointed out, there can be no stability, of general interest, without a historic voice in the concert of nations. Even if our colleague Lachaud's remarks were not lacking in interest or precision, we wish and must be able to debate this, for Europe, for space, for Guyana – because today, more than ever, we can be pleased that in his time, General de Gaulle has taken the decision to locate our space centre in Kourou. Our position must be clear: for this to happen again, we must debate. That is why we will not vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u42	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u43	The Libertés et Territoires Group will not support this motion by France, especially since the Secretary of State has just confirmed that the transfer of production from French sites to German sites, following the agreement between the two States, will be fully compensated in terms of charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u44	I hope you believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u45	He cited the turbopump project; One might as well mention those relating to hydrogen, for example. Of course, we are opposed to the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u46	And what about the 600 unemployed guys?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u47	In the general debate, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u48	Mr. President informs me that I have five minutes: it is short. I would therefore like to use the first minute to recall that, without its ultramarine territories, France of our time would not be as powerful as it is. They are a huge wealth, the wealth of France of the 21st century. It owes them its rank as the world's third maritime power, its rare earths, and I pass it. When we decided one day to take off space rockets from Kourou, it was simply because we had Kourou! France of the 21st century is the overseas France: I believe it deeply. Perhaps there will be no one else to remind him tonight: it was all the more important for me to do it. Secondly, it must be recognized that we did not expect to face such competition at all. Everything worked well, Ariane was beautiful and we were the best in the world, when eccentric billionaires came in, Jeff Business, Charles Bronson,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u49	Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u50	... who decided one day that it should not be more difficult to travel in space than to take a ticket for an attraction at the fair. I would remind you that some people today find it difficult to pay their electricity bills. That's lamentable! To face these competitors, we have Soyuz, Vega and Ariane. Soyuz, it's the Russians. How foolish we have been to bother them, as we still do, with a lot of economic considerations! Between the 58 billion euros that the United States has stolen from us in this matter of submarines destined for Australia, and all that Russia has done to us lately, I would like to point out that there is a slight difference! There is not a Frenchman sitting at the bottom of a café, playing PMU, not to think that we make fun of the world by importing the Russians, who entrust their launcher to Kourou, while we laugh at the Americans who broke us 58 billion! Outside Soyuz, we still have Vega – our Italian friends. That's all. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry to have to tell you, but Mr. Lachaud was right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u51	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u52	[[Mr. Bastien Lachaud applauds]] What is happening in Germany is an absolute shame! You can play me the violin, tell me everything you want about a third or even a fourth floor, but people who are part of the Ariane program have decided to create a site near Rostock – I will not remind you of history and it would be shameful to do so. But we could talk about Wernher von Braun. Again, it is lamentable: Europeans are betraying us. The Germans should come with us to Kourou!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u53	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u54	That would be the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u55	He's just talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I repeat: whatever we can tell, we have two friends as I speak to you, the Russia of Soyuz and the Italy of Vega. Today, the Germans are not our friends! At European level, we can go cheerfully! Third, finally...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u57	Go ahead, Mr. Hutin: you have forty-five seconds left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u58	You're adorable, Mr. President. For several years, I was president of Atmo France, the federation of accredited air quality monitoring associations (AASQA). I can tell you that for a horseman, it wasn't a carrier. Still, Mr rapporteur, there is an AASQA – Atmo Guiana, I think, on the model of Atmo Hauts-de-France or Airparif.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u59	That's right, Atmo Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u60	As no launch can take place without consequences, I count on you and Mr. Secretary of State to give Atmo Guiana the means to monitor air quality in the immediate vicinity of the installations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u61	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] I like the industry, but I'm a doctor: public health needs to be taken care of. Perhaps the state could do something on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u63	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u64	We are meeting tonight to discuss the bill authorizing the approval of the statement on the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guyana Space Centre. We look at ratification bills every year and, by habit or even fatigue, we may be tempted to think that they are insignificant. It would be a mistake to underestimate this text. First of all, this agreement is proof that, when Europeans are willing to act in geopolitical power, Europe is indeed becoming one. Galileo's success, which has recently crossed the billions of users' course, to the constellation of Earth observation satellites called Copernicus, which gives us an autonomous European capacity for monitoring for the environment and security, and the Ariane rocket, the field of space exploration illustrates the fact that we can succeed when we engage together in bold projects. Thanks to the European Space Agency, our continent has managed to occupy a central place in this industry of the future. Resolutely European, the Group of the European People's Party welcomes this desire to forge our strategic autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u65	With the Germans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u66	Since 1975, ESA has established itself as a key player in space research for peaceful purposes only. Although it cooperates closely with the European Union, its legal independence guarantees it a model of organisation that has proven its effectiveness. France, the largest contributor to ESA's resources, plays a key role in this system: we provide more than 3 billion euros for the development of the Ariane launcher. Similarly, since 1980, the legal framework for the operation of ESA has largely been based on Arianespace, a French-law company specially created by the Centre national d'études spatiales. Above all, European launchers are operated from French territory in the Guyanese Space Centre in Kourou, whose local impact has been highlighted by our colleague Lenaïck Adam. In 2018, I was given the opportunity to visit the Kourou site and assess its impact. In Guyana, 440 companies and 4600 jobs are linked to the Space Centre, which accounts for 15 per cent of the territory's GDP. It is therefore a matter for France to assume its leading role in European space cooperation and an ambitious power for the development of tomorrow's technologies. We must give hope to all the future Thomas Pesquet by showing them that we are doing the right thing so that one day they can realize their dreams. Moreover, if it is indispensable in the long term, space exploration can make a great contribution to us today. Beyond employment, space research is at the root of decisive scientific advances. From a robotic arm to perform brain surgery to osteoporosis treatment, remote ultrasound or portable water treatment technology, we innovate to go into space, innovate in space, and innovate to save lives on Earth. In addition, maintaining European space cooperation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u67	With the Germans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u68	...at a race step will be a key issue of sovereignty vis-à-vis the great powers. At a time when the United States is accelerating its launches through private companies such as SpaceX and China is building its own space station, we cannot afford to stay on the edge of the road. The latest Afghan and Australian news has shown us that it would be futile to rely on others in this endeavour. On the contrary, we need to develop our autonomy, and the agreement under this bill provides the necessary tools for the ESA by regulating the manufacture, integration, launch operations and commercialization of launchers. The text of the declaration thus guarantees Europe reliable and available access to space, in particular in that the parties undertake to contribute to the financing of the Guiana Space Centre in order to keep it under operational conditions at every moment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Action Together Group will support this text, which will make it possible to secure and accelerate our technological advances. Above all, by adopting the bill by a large majority, we will send a clear signal to the world: Europe is there, Europe is innovative, Europe is ambitious and it can be the driving force behind space research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u69	With the Germans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u70	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u71	The intergovernmental agreement between the 18 Member States of the European Space Agency, concluded on 4 December 2017, defined the responsibilities and obligations related to the operation of the new launchers developed by the European Space Agency and the Soyuz launcher, operated by the Guiana Space Centre. Long-standing cooperation between ESA Member States has enabled Europe to assert itself as a major power in the area of access to space. The different versions of Ariane have become the most competitive launchers on the world market and the arrival of Vega and Soyuz has made it possible to increase the flexibility of the European offer of launch services. The devolution to the two industrial contractors, the French ArianeGroup and the Italian Avio, of increased responsibilities during the operation phase of the launchers, constitutes the main evolution of this declaration compared to the version previously in force. The agreement thus takes note of the rise in power of industrial contractors in the exploitation of future European launchers by continuing their financing and by giving a renewed legal framework at the stages of exploitation of the new Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers. [[The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mr Christian Hutin applaud]] Moreover, the text of the declaration also provides for a principle of preference for the use of European launchers by the parties, inviting them to take account of the existence of these launchers in the definition and implementation of their national programmes and of the European and international programmes in which they participate. We regret, however, that the principle of preference is not binding. The European Union must firmly defend our industrial sovereignty. Beyond the technical provisions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u72	Not technical, political!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u73	... the IDU and independent group welcomes this agreement, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness of European launchers and therefore of the Guiana Space Centre. On the one hand, as has been said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, space is a particularly strategic area for our defence, security and fundamental research. The rapporteur rightly pointed out that space activities also have a leverage effect on various economic sectors, in particular through the use of space data. Indeed, many civilian and military technologies depend on satellites. In this sense, it remains essential to promote the construction of a strategic autonomy of the European Union, as international competition increases with the entry into the market of US private companies – I am of course thinking of Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk or Richard Branson – but also of states like China and perhaps India soon. I am convinced that the European space industry can further increase its competitiveness: for example, it does not have a reusable launcher technology such as SpaceX. It is therefore essential that Europe continues to play a leading role in the world market. On the other hand, the Guiana Space Centre plays a major role in the economic development of Guyana and a fortiori for the influence of France. Its activity generates 15 per cent of Guyana's GDP. About 450 companies and 4600 jobs are related to space – which, ladies and gentlemen, is considerable. The Space Centre is therefore a major player in Guyanese tourism. [[The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs applauds]] This agreement marks another important step in the operation of Ariane, Soyuz and Vega launchers. Its approval will, I hope, further increase our space outreach. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u74	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u75	This text endorses a division of labour between all parties concerned with the maintenance and development of a European launcher. As such, we cannot be opposed to it. But it is absurd to separate this issue from the rest of France's space policy. It is the cornerstone of the policy and, as such, would be to approve it as a whole. However, this cannot be discussed. The space policy decided by the Government in recent years has been marked by follow-up, naivety and ideology. It does not address the great challenges facing humanity. Space is a new frontier and, if we do not work to make its exploration useful to all humanity, we will reproduce the disasters that capitalism has sown on earth: war and pollution. The mad race for profit already has its emblems in the person of the three billionaires who regulate their rivalry with rockets. But what do the states do? In any case, France lets go. The United States is pushing their pawns, convinced that a US megalomaniac is already a victory for them. They observe, with the Musk and Bezos, the adage that we lend to Roosevelt about the dictator Somoza: "He's a bastard, but he's our bastard! » In fact, the United States is doing everything it can to allow the rush to space. In 2015, at the end of Barack Obama's presidency, for example, they passed a law, the Space Act, dealing with commercial space flights and authorizing the appropriation and exploitation of any mineral resources found in space. In response, the Government did not propose any major diplomatic action; He did not attempt to form any coalition to protest against this unilateral decision that contravenes the 1967 Space Treaty. On the contrary, the Government had sought to drown fish with other threats in order to forget the United States hegemonic strategy. It seemed to him more comfortable to turn China and Russia into a hate of opinion rather than to assume a clear and firm unaligned position. The challenge was to accept the installation of the NATO Space Centre of Excellence in Toulouse. After that, how can we not be considered just as a servile auxiliary to American imperialism? While the Australian submarine case has recently provided brilliant evidence that Washington never treats equals with allies but merely flatters or compels vassals, it is inconceivable that this NATO centre can be established on national territory. What better proof of the executive's follow-up and inconsequence? Having decided to create a military space command in Toulouse was already giving the signal that France was placing its steps in those of the United States and, if necessary, could not help but degrade the slope of the militarization of outer space. To invite NATO to take its neighbourhoods next door is to show a naivety and confusing imprudence in front of the country that has made it a speciality to spy on its friends as its enemies. As for believing that we will not suffer one day or the other, and that we will always know how to protect ourselves from it, it would be seriously lacking modesty. However, if the Government is proud when it comes to defence and pretends to retain a technical superiority in France that would protect it from any hostile action, it is infinitely less visible when it comes to protecting our country's industrial know-how. Blinded by a dream of European construction to which he sacrificed French interests, he let Germany rob us with patience and method. The reality of German intentions, which I mentioned in detail earlier, cannot be contested. They have been explicitly formulated in a number of White Papers since 2010 and have been translated into reality, since Berlin is undeniably giving itself the means of its ambitions. Today, Germany is the leading contributor to the European Space Agency. It derives many advantages, directing credit towards its companies. After capturing an essential part of French know-how, she developed her own and powerfully rejected the status quo which ensured France the first place in the world space concert. From now on, Germany intends to have its mini-launcher and use it from home. In the long run, it intends to impose itself on the segment of heavy launchers and make the Guiana Space Centre a vestige of French power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u77	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Arianespace is already moving the production of the Vinci engine to Germany, the centrepiece of the future Ariane 6. What are the French authorities doing in the face of these blows to our position? They're crow-baby! They welcome the fact that Europe is moving forward when, in reality, France is moving backwards. Exactly the same way that he was unable to seize the opportunity OneWeb or, at least, to have it seized by the European Union, the Government is waiting. Unable to weigh and propose an independent and original vision, he is overwhelmed by events and, to make him forget, he pretends to organize them. He asks us to endorse this state of affairs. Impossible: we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u78	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u79	Following the submarine affair, in an international context where business diplomacy predominates, France can no longer accept being treated as a doormat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u80	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u81	Therefore, the Guyana Space Centre is more vital than ever since it allows us to be a leading and independent space power, particularly from the United States. More and more civilian and military technologies depend on access to space: not being there would lead to a considerable abandonment of sovereignty. Europe needs to maintain its position among the world's launch leaders and modernise to face competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u83	Close to the Ecuadorian line, which facilitates the launch of geostationary satellites, and in an area that is not subject to the risk of tropical cyclones, the situation of the Guyanan site allows it to be an ideal launch site at lower cost. The different versions of Ariane, the true flagship of our French industry, have become the most competitive launchers in the world over the decades. They represent, as we must say here, half of all satellite launches. The Guiana Space Centre is obviously very important for Guyana. Job and attractiveness provider, it was said, generates the activity of 450 companies, which account for 4600 jobs and 15% of local GDP. But our space industry is also vital for other territories, located in metropolitan France. In the department of which I am elected, the Gironde, ArianeGroup has more than 3500 jobs in Saint-Médard-en-Jalles and Le Haillan. It is from the port of Bordeaux, in the commune of Parempuyre, that the spare parts of Ariane 6 will depart on board a hybrid ship operating with sail and gas. Of course, there is a flat: the group just announced a few days ago the abolition of 600 posts by 2022, representing 8% of the total number of staff. These reductions are cause for concern, which may increase if ArianeGroup's situation does not improve. Restructuring within it is linked to the difficulties of facing international competition. The space race is re-launched with the arrival, alongside traditional state actors such as the United States, Russia and China, of many private actors competing with installed launchers such as Ariane: Jeff Bezos and Blue Origin, Richard Branson and Virgin, Elon Musk and SpaceX, a company whose model of reusable launchers has contributed to a drastic reduction in space access costs. ArianeGroup thus faces increased competition, if not fierce, and I would like to acknowledge the commitment of the teams that inaugurated yesterday the new shooting step in Kourou, alongside Minister Sébastien Lecornu.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u84	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u85	In order to maintain its position and not to be distanced in the space race, it is essential that Europe be united in the space field. The declaration establishes a legal framework for the exploitation of European launchers which must be welcomed and is part of this unity logic. After rapporteur Lenaick Adam, we regret, however, that the principle of European preference for the parties to the convention concerning the choice of a launcher is not binding. However, we welcome the recent structural agreement with Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u86	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u87	It will enable us to sanctify four institutional flights a year and to assert European sovereignty. It was absurd that we were once again the only world power not to introduce protectionism in such a strategic sector. Our group wondered about the transfer of the production of the Vinci engine to occupy the upper stage of Ariane 6 from the Vernon site in the Eure to Germany. Union representatives are concerned about what could also be a transfer of skills. The Secretary of State has reassured us: this transfer will be offset by new charges related, in particular, to the production of hydrogen turbopumps, which was confirmed to me by the management of the girondin site this afternoon. This transfer from Vernon is part of the Ariane 6 European launcher production project. In Germany, on 6 September, industrialists presented a project to start in 2023, which aims to transform a ship into a space site for microlaunchers in the North Sea. We hope that it will benefit the Vernon site and that there will be no competition between European countries in the space sector. The Liberties and Territories Group will vote for this approval bill. However, we would like to stress that, if we are to maintain this strategic employment-providing industry in our territories, it is vital for Europe to develop a major plan for space. Thus this statement is to be linked to the European Commission's recent proposal to create a European mega-constellation capable of competing with the SpaceX project, because that is the objective we must have in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u88	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u89	Ah, finally a little truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, space has become the prime location for the expansion of the digital economy in a few years, which has enabled half of the world's population to access high-speed Internet via satellite. The companies that carry this project are extremely powerful. Their goal is to master the entire digital data chain from their broadcast to their processing. This dream has become a reality in recent years thanks to the collapse, on the one hand, of the price of the kilo sent in orbit, which was divided by twenty, from 200000 to 10000 dollars, notably thanks to reusable launchers, and, on the other hand, of the price of satellites, divided by one hundred, with the emergence of satellites of the size of a washing machine, produced in large series for 300,000 dollars a unit. This revolution is not due to the invisible hand of the market: it is the result of colossal public investment and firm political commitment. U.S. taxpayers have almost fully funded SpaceX and the company, which is still barely profitable today, owes its current survival only to public orders. The same company mobilizes all its resources to build an infrastructure of 40,000 satellites intended to cover the globe of its own internet network. For this, SpaceX sends 120 satellites per month to orbit every year, more than ever between 1974 and 2018. Let us not forget that this infrastructure is very fragile because space has become a trash can where 28000 kilometres per hour climb more than 100 million objects, measuring a few millimetres to several meters. It is therefore necessary to be able to move satellites in the event of a collision, but monitoring is complex. However, in the event of a shock, a chain reaction – as we have seen with the destruction of a satellite by India just mentioned by Bastien Lachaud – could render the entire low orbit unusable for several decades. Despite these obvious risks, there is virtually no international cooperation to set up a space switch on the model of civil aviation. This weakness of international cooperation in space-related matters makes it possible to understand the obsession between Pierre Cabaré and myself as rapporteurs for a space information mission: how can we ensure that international diplomacy takes these dangers into account? How can we cooperate internationally to advance together and to create an area of peace, demilitarized? And what role does Europe play? And what role has France played, or should it play? I agree with all those who believe that our country is not sufficiently present on all these issues. Several elements of the responses can be advanced. First, France is a major space power and, as such, it can and must weigh its weight on European and international space diplomacy. Only when it takes the bull by the horns will the European Union and the European Space Agency move forward. Understanding this is fundamental. Secondly, France is the only country in the world to have a law on space operations. Data from 2008, it obliges operators to ethically manage their satellites during their lives. It also helps to make French satellites more expensive and therefore less competitive internationally. It is essential to make this law a European directive and even a basis for international reflection. The Presidency of the European Union offers us a historic opportunity. Will France be present when it exercises it to advance on these issues of space? Thirdly, the European Space Agency, which is already a major global space institution, must be politically strengthened and speak with one very strong voice. The slowness of the decision-making process, together with 22 Member States, undermines its effectiveness vis-à-vis competitors. The clarification text we are discussing is one example: it still does not make the use of European launchers mandatory for a Member State of the European Space Agency. It must be made mandatory. How can such tools be made available and not used systematically? We think we're dreaming! Can we imagine for a moment the Chinese or the Americans buying an Ariane 5 and asking the Europeans permission to launch one of their satellites from Kourou? Of course not! They themselves manage their launchers while Europe does not practice any protectionism, preferring an open door policy. Meanwhile, France, which had a leadership in space, remained silent. It is to be hoped that France and the European Space Agency will act on both axes of space, not only by helping to regulate under international law the new intensive use of space, but also by accelerating the political dynamism of ESA, by maintaining a single European launcher with a monopoly on its territory and by deploying a European constellation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u91	You have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u92	I conclude, Mr President, by stressing that we also need a European cloud capable of guaranteeing independence and sovereignty over our data from satellite to ground processing. [[Mr Pierre Dharréville, Mr Christian Hutin and the rapporteur applaud]] These are the major challenges of the future for France and for Europe. It's an extraordinary project. Again, act, Secretary of State, to ensure that our State is the driving force behind this change. In the meantime, the Communist MEPs will vote for this text, for Kurou, for Guyana, as it sets some milestones for the European space organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u93	Excellent conclusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u94	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u95	The title of the bill refers to the approval of a "declaration", when it is actually a genuine intergovernmental agreement that binds the parties and provides a legal framework for action and commercial engagement and, of course, accountability. This responsibility also applies to the environment, since the text clarifies to the president of the CNES its police power on a site where the Seveso high threshold facilities are alongside areas of population and where fragile biodiversity is deployed. The Space Centre is indispensable to Guyana: it is a jewel for France and a considerable advantage, I repeat, for Europe. It is also, of course, a signal to the world. The European Space Agency is not an agency of the European Union, but a legally independent intergovernmental agency whose members do not necessarily have to belong to the European Union, with which, of course, it cooperates. Three main countries are involved in the launch programmes: France, Germany and Italy. If they all participate in this consensus agreement, it can be said that France is the one who pulls the other two. The objectives of this agreement are multiple. It clearly indicates the entities responsible for the operation of launchers and acknowledges the growing activity of future European launchers. It also provides, and we regret, a simple principle of preference given to our launchers for the institutional missions of States parties. Europe must show the strength of union, because it must commit us. Beyond the economy, there is diplomacy, an indispensable tool for space. Space must maintain its independence and its image of innovation and peace. I have the chance to work on a relationship with my colleague and friend Jean-Paul Lecoq,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u97	... as part of an information mission. We have been very attentive from the beginning to diplomacy and to what it can bring in terms of peace. The agreement establishes an international responsibility regime for launch operations at the Guyana Space Centre, to which States Parties have a comprehensive oversight mandate. It strengthens France as the launching state for all launches from our Guyana site, which is not nothing. Let us all bear in mind that in 30 years and 300 shots, there has never been an accident there. This text organises the industrial exploitation of launchers developed by ESA and is the legal basis for the economic activity of the launch sector. Space is independence; Space is innovation. And space, I say again, must remain in peace. An ethic of space, that is what we all have to tackle, not France alone but the whole world. The CNES, which Bastien Lachaud mentioned a few moments ago, is not a space agency: it is a technical centre useful to companies that brings technological breaks and irrigates skills and innovation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I can't finish without reminding you that I'm a Toulousan and, like all the Toulousans, I'm a little chauvin. Of course Occitanie, it's a rugby land, but it's mostly a land of champions and you'll notice that you can't miss an oval balloon in space and aeronautics. In a country that turns dreams into possible, we cannot go back. Space adventure is just infinity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u98	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u99	The conquest of space has seen difficult beginnings in Europe. While the Soviet Union and the United States are building on space successes, European cooperation is in its infancy and hampered by the coexistence of two organisations, including the European Centre for the Construction of Spacecraft Launchers, dedicated to the development of the Europa rocket, abandoned in the early 1970s. However, the tenacity and dreams of women and men of scientific and political teams allow Europe to raise its head and continue to look passionately towards the stars. Behind France, several European states support the L-IIIS project of third generation launchers. It was adopted at the Brussels Conference in July 1973, on the same day as the creation of the European Space Agency, ESA. The Ariane epic begins then and Europe has autonomous access to space from the Guiana Space Centre, of which we can all be proud. Thomas Pesquet is an excellent ambassador, who yesterday posted a photo on Twitter from the International Space Station to welcome the inauguration of Ariane 6's shooting step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u100	[[Smile]] Good thing he voted Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u101	Like many Frenchmen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u102	It was important to have both an excellent launch port and an equally excellent launcher: Ariane. The emergence of new actors, first and foremost SpaceX, which was widely supported by the US public authorities, as well as the continuing space competition with new countries marked a turning point in the European space conquest. However, autonomous access to space is a strategic issue: global security, connectivity, data communication and the fight against climate change. Europe's loss of competitiveness in space is a reality and it is time to rearm itself to remedy it. We cannot remain in the hands of private actors for our launches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u104	Our European partners, originally more distant from these issues, have understood the value of being able to count on a European force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u105	Except for Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u106	[[Smile]] Even Germany! Now Ariane 6 can compete with SpaceX if we decide. The project of a European constellation with hundreds of satellites in low orbit is a virtuous project, which can meet the challenge of security and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u107	There's still room!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u108	Space covers issues of sovereignty, market and technological disruption that legitimize the need for public support to attract private investment. If we are to continue to be part of the circle of great space powers, we must move forward together at European level. The approval of the 2017 declaration on the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guiana Space Centre is definitely part of this ambition. In order to increase its competitiveness and maintain its position as a European space port, it is essential that the Guiana Space Centre be versatile. With the two new launchers, Ariane 6 and Vega C, Europe will be able to strengthen the position of the European space industry in a rapidly changing environment and preserve its autonomy of access to space. By adapting the legal framework for the launcher operation phase and sustaining funding, we are laying the foundation for an environment that is more suited to international competition. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in committee, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) supports the approval of this intergovernmental agreement. In conclusion, I want to pause for a moment on the environmental impact of the space conquest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u109	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u110	At a time when space tourism has just taken a turn, we must be very vigilant about the environmental impact of the development of space activities, which will inevitably lead to new sources of pollution. While there is little mention of international law in this regard, our country must encourage good practice in this area. I would also like to commend CNES, which has placed the environment at the heart of its concerns by introducing an ecodesign approach throughout the launch chain. For example, it activates an environmental measurement plan at each launch from the Guiana Space Centre: 100 measurements are made to control air, water and sediment quality, as well as to monitor the impact of the launch on aquatic vegetation and wildlife. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem Group and on the benches of the commissions]] As you will understand, our group sees the European space strategy as a sustainable approach both for our environment on earth and for the conquest of space.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u111	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u112	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3009.u113	Next sitting, Tuesday, 5 October, at 3 p.m.: Opening of the regular session; Questions to the Government; Election of two alternate judges to the Court of Justice of the Republic; Discussion of the draft law allowing the re-election of consular judges in commercial courts; Discussion of the proposed legislation prohibiting practices aimed at changing a person's sexual orientation or gender identity. The meeting is adjourned.
