ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft amending finance law for 2021 (No. 4215, 4227).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u3	I am pleased to see you on the occasion of the public discussion of the Amending Finance Bill (CFP). What period does it take? We come out of the "no matter what it costs." We're not quite back to normal yet. We must therefore continue to support certain sectors of the French economy, but our ambition is to return to normal, as quickly as possible, all sectors of the French economy: the objective of this bill is to accompany our economy, in particular certain sectors, in general, towards this return to normal. The indicators available show that we are on the right track. Growth is back. Investment has been increasing continuously for three quarters in France. Consumption has rebounded sharply since the reopening of shops and restaurants, as Blue Card spending in physical shops has risen sharply since the beginning of May, up 15% from their level in 2019, over the same period. The confidence of entrepreneurs has been at its highest level since the beginning of the crisis. These figures confirm a posteriori the strategy of the President of the Republic and the Government: to support the economy massively, to protect companies, to accompany employees so as not to have any loss of skills or qualifications, no wave of bankruptcies, during the most serious crisis in France since 1929. This strategy has been costly but it has been the right one and will allow us to bounce harder in the aftermath of the economic crisis. We are therefore counting on 5% growth by 2021, one of the best in Europe. We believe that we will be able to regain the level of activity we had before the crisis in the first quarter of 2022. This estimate could be considered prudent in the light of other assessments of institutions such as the OECD or the European Commission, which estimate French growth for 2021 at 5.8% and 5.7% respectively. However, such caution is consistent with the strategy we have adopted since the beginning of the crisis: to remain realistic and to do everything possible to achieve the best results. The only obstacle on the way back to growth would be the return of the pandemic. I therefore take the opportunity of this forum and of this debate to call on everyone to respect the barriers, the sense of responsibility and vaccination. Only collective vaccination will protect us against any risk of a return to the epidemic in the new year 2021 and thus guarantee the strength of French growth and the resulting job creation. On the basis of this finding, what challenges do we face? I see at least three of them, which are precisely the subject of this amending finance bill. The first challenge is to support sectors that are starting up and facing expenses related to restarting their business – purchasing supplies, hiring and training new employees: it is at the heart of this bill, with the continuation of emergency support, for more than 15 billion euros. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and I have therefore decided to maintain a number of accompanying measures, which will decline over the months, until the end of August, in order to accompany these sectors and avoid any brutality in the economic transition. We will therefore maintain a solidarity fund until the end of August for the S1 and S1bis sectors, which cover tourism in the broad sense. This solidarity fund will be accessible to all companies in this sector, regardless of their level of turnover losses, whereas previously it was necessary to have lost at least 50% of turnover. The take-over will be declining, accounting for 40% of the losses compared to sales in 2019 in June, 30% in July and 20% in August. We will meet again at the end of the summer to take stock of these measures and see what decisions are to be taken. Overall, we will continue to cover 15 per cent of the wage bill for June, July and August. The objective is very simple: it aims to ensure that these sectors hire massively, as quickly as possible, with this aid. Partial activity will be maintained: it will also be degressive over the months of June, July and August. All this confirms that we are gradually emerging from the "no matter what it costs", to accompany our economy in its return to normal. With regard to discotheques, the only sector currently closed, we will take stock on 21 June, as the President of the Republic has indicated. I am confident that they will be able to reopen in satisfactory sanitary conditions this summer. I have been working with the Minister for Small and Medium Enterprises, Alain Griset, for several days. We will deliver our conclusions within a few days, before the decision is taken, by the end of June. I say again: I am confident that the discotheques can reopen and I believe that they should do so in good sanitary conditions, according to a protocol that we have defined, rather than having unanticipated gatherings, all over France, throughout the summer. The second challenge is to prevent the risk of bankruptcy, which concerns fragile but viable companies. As much as everyone can imagine that companies disappear, because they are not viable, because they have not made the right economic choices and have not adopted the right strategy, we reject as well as viable companies, but weakened by months and months of crisis, disappear at the end of the crisis. I have therefore presented, with the guard of the seals, a business support plan, which is based on a completely innovative and unique tool in the world to identify companies in difficulty. All the most sensitive data on business activity available to the Directorate-General for Enterprise (DGE), the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP), the USSRAF and the Banque de France will, for the first time, be merged into a predictive model using the algorithms of artificial intelligence, which will then allow us to alert the companies to accompany them in their recovery. These data will, of course, remain strictly confidential. The plan also provides for a €3 billion transition fund for the largest companies and mid-cap companies, to support businesses that meet post-crisis financing needs in loans and quasi-equity: these provisions are also included in the draft amending finance law that is subject to your approval. The third issue is to lift the constraints on production, because, as each of you can see in his constituency, the first obstacles faced by entrepreneurs, the employers of SMEs, of TPEs, are the price of raw materials,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u5	...and their difficulties in procurement and recruitment. I was in Alsace a few days ago when I was able to discuss with the business leaders of the building and public works (BTP), the hotel industry or the catering industry. All of them had only one message: they were unable to recruit and experienced problems related to the supply of raw materials and their cost. This factor is the one that most weakens restarting, puts a number of entrepreneurs in the various sectors in the most difficult position and gives rise to the greatest concern in the economic world. Why do we encounter such a difficulty in the supply of raw materials? It is very simple: there was less production of raw materials during the crisis, and there are far more demands than expected in the aftermath of the crisis, given the strength of the restart, which in recent weeks has forced all international organizations to revise their growth forecasts upwards. We will therefore ensure that public procurement contracts do not impose late payment penalties when delays are related to supply shortages. I will meet with all the stakeholders next week, in order to set up a mediation of channels between the various players in the sector and to find solutions to the difficulty of supplying raw materials, a short-term problem which we believe can be solved within a few months. The second constraint is that of recruitment: difficulty in recruiting roofers, finding employees in restaurants, hotels and buildings. We have therefore decided to invest massively, with France relaunch, in order to speed up the qualification and training schemes implemented by the Minister for Labour, Employment and Training, Élisabeth Borne: assistance for the formation of the national employment fund, the FNE-Training, for employees in partial employment, the 200000 training courses in the professions of the future for young people, an increased support for retraining. One of the great challenges of the coming years will be to better accompany employees, to acquire the training that will give them access to the jobs that are developing, to protect them from the disappearance of jobs in other sectors, which are fragile: France does not do so easily, but it is essential to meet the challenge of accompanying all those who work in difficult sectors or who are unemployed towards jobs of the future. Beyond these immediate challenges, dealt with in this amending finance bill, we also face long-term challenges, emerging from the crisis: I see at least three. The first is the fight against inequality. We do not want a less just economic model out of this economic crisis than we had before: on the contrary, we want it to enable us to fight more against inequalities and put justice at the heart of our economic model. We have therefore decided to extend and strengthen, in this amending finance bill, the accompanying arrangements to support the most fragile. Partial activity, which accounts for more than EUR 6.4 billion, is a means of supporting those who have the most employment difficulties. We have renewed the exceptional purchasing power premium (PEPA), which can reach up to EUR 2000 per employee, and we have maintained all the support schemes already provided for the most modest employees. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Such a conception of our economic model also requires more justice at the international level, and the fight we are waging, with the President of the Republic, with this majority, for four years now, paying the high price, for the establishment of a fairer and more efficient international taxation of the twenty-first century. We were heard, and we won, in London a few days ago, at the G7 of Finance Ministers. This fight, launched by the President of the Republic in 2017, is the fight of all the French, who paid the high price. Faced with the refusal of several European countries to introduce a tax on digital giants, we have, with your support, introduced a national tax on these giants, which earns almost 400 million euros a year. This has led us to be victims of sanctions on the part of the Trump administration and the US administration. This success is the success of the French nation as a whole, the success, I repeat, of the French, who paid a great price to achieve it. So we went a step towards the G7 finance. The text is being reviewed by the Heads of State and will arrive at the G20 in early July. It will then have to be the subject of a comprehensive agreement at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) including other major nations and other major continents, first and foremost China. So the challenges remain very important to us. We want and continue to fight for an ambitious agreement. There is no question for France to reduce its ambitions with regard to international taxation. We are ambitious about the scope of this tax. We want all digital giants, without exception, including Amazon, to be included in the field of digital taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u7	We want the minimum tax rate on these companies to be as high as possible, if possible above the 15% used as the starting point for the G7 finance. I would remind you that we accepted the 21% proposed by Mr Joe Biden a few weeks ago, before the US President came back and proposed a lower rate. Finally, we would like the scope of this minimum tax to be as wide as possible and to include as many sectors as possible. This justice also depends on all the measures implemented since 2017 for employees: the revalorisation of the activity premium, the abolition of the overtime charges, or the reduction of the income tax (IR) and the housing tax (TH), so that the gain of purchasing power for an employee at the SMIC reaches 170 euros per month. I want to take advantage of our discussions to invite companies that can do so to use all the mechanisms to improve the remuneration of employees, in particular the incentive and participation schemes that we have drastically simplified and on which we have abolished the 20% tax. The second long-term issue is investment. To support businesses in the rebound and resumption of normal activities, we wanted to boost their investment by offering them to completely deflate the carry-over of tax deficits and to increase the number of years on which losses can be charged from one to three years. This change in the carry back that we propose to you in this amending finance bill is decisive for many companies. This exceptional measure will help to improve the financial situation of companies that experienced losses in 2020 as a result of the crisis when they were profitable before the crisis. Investment is also an answer to the question we all need to ask ourselves: what growth tomorrow? How can we achieve fairer growth? How can we achieve greener growth? And, above all, how can we ensure that there is no too large a gap in the growth potential between the American continent and the European continent? Europe is not intended to move forward more slowly than the United States in terms of economic recovery. Nor is it intended to leave China and the United States the monopoly of major innovations and technologies, which determine the control of our sovereignty and independence. We have therefore embarked on several investment schemes in the recovery plan. Of the EUR 100 billion of this plan, which is precisely investment-oriented, EUR 34 billion has already been committed in mid-May. Our goal is to deploy €70 billion by the end of the year. If we want a higher level of potential growth than before the crisis, we must, together, invest more in human capital, in the men and women who make French growth – through their skills, training and research – and in physical capital, so that our companies digitize, digitize, robotize and are at the best international standards. Finally, the third and final major issue will be the control of public finances. We all know that when we emerge from the crisis, when growth is back and solid, we will have to restore our public finances. I would also like to thank the majority for their support, who, for the last four years I have been working with her, have consistently and firmly supported us in sometimes difficult public finance choices. Without her, nothing is possible. In the coming months, we will have to commit to the restoration of these finances. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This work is part of the DNA of this majority, which, I would remind you, restored the public finances of France in the first three years of the mandate, managed to get us under the 3% public deficit bar and removed France from the excessive deficit procedure (DPE). When the crisis is behind us, when growth is solidly back, we will have to restore our public finances. This recovery, I repeat, cannot go through an increase in taxes: it will involve more courageous solutions such as those proposed by President Eric Woerth and the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin. I want to thank them for their work. Their proposal for an organic law on the modernization of the management of public finances, which will make it possible to lay down a multiannual rule of expenditure, has my full and total support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u9	As Mr Bruno Le Maire has said, the PLFR that we are presenting to you has the ambition to accompany the exit from crisis and the resumption of activity, and to respond both to needs expressed during this beginning of the fiscal year and to financing needs relating to measures, commitments or decisions taken or announced by the President of the Republic or the Government. I would like to focus on four points. This text will first of all, if you adopt it, fund the degressive exit of emergency measures deployed to support the economy since the beginning of the crisis of the Covid-19. We propose to open up EUR 15.5 billion of appropriations, to finance compensation for social security exemptions of EUR 4 billion, and to finance the solidarity fund for businesses, independents and entrepreneurs, until the end of the summer, by means of aid for degressive and securitised enterprises, amounting to EUR 3.4 billion. This aid has been mentioned recently by the Prime Minister and, at the moment, by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery. Over EUR 30 billion has been committed to the Solidarity Fund for the past 15 months, benefiting 2.2 million companies. We also propose that you enter €6.4 billion to finance the partial activity and replenish in particular the credits of the long-term partial activity, requested to meet the conditions for taking over the partial activity during the period of the covid-19. The latter will be particularly useful to accompany sectors such as aeronautics, which have been affected on a long-term basis. In addition, we propose that you include EUR 150 million to finance sectoral measures for the world of culture and EUR 200 million to help the communities, especially those which organise several public services under governance, which we have not been able to accompany so far on legal issues, but which we will propose to you to help with the examination of this PLFR. The second point which characterizes this PLFR is the desire to facilitate the implementation of the recovery plan. As has been said, our goal is that by the end of 2021, 70 billion euros out of the 100 billion euros of the recovery plan can be committed and half can be disbursed. We have already committed more than one third of the recovery plan to date, more than EUR 36 billion. With this PLFR, we will propose, for example, to consider 600 million euros to finance the "industry of the future" schemes. In addition, we will accompany this PLFR with regulatory measures to allow the reabundance of the most sought after devices in the industrial, digitisation and agricultural fields. As we have indicated, this can be done through redeployments within the EUR 100 billion envelope that you passed in the context of the review of the Finance Bill (FPL) for 2021. This PLFR, which responds, in the third place, to several expressed needs, is marked by the willingness to finance decisions announced by the President of the Republic or by the Government. Before listing the few measures that we are proposing, I would like to point out that, while we have chosen to include in this PLFR for EUR 15.5 billion emergency appropriations with consequences for the public deficits to which I shall return, we also want this PLFR, which marks the return to normality, also to mark the return to a goal of sustainability of public expenditure. The serious budget that the Government, the majority, and Parliament, beyond the ranks of the majority, have shown for several years now, has enabled us both to restore public accounts and to deal with the crisis in good conditions. France has thus been able to mobilize financial markets at particularly benevolent rates. It is this seriousness that we must observe and respect. That is why the new measures we are proposing, amounting to EUR 1.4 billion, are being managed and do not degrade the public deficit or the balance of the public accounts. We have managed them both by cancelling some of the credits that have been put into the precautionary reserve since the beginning of the year, and by reducing the appropriations provided for the calls for guarantees for loans guaranteed by the State (PGE). The combination of the possibility of delaying the first repayment deadline and an improvement in the economic situation – real reinsurance in the area of separability – allows us to reduce these guarantee calls, for just over €950 million. Thus, without deterioration of the public deficit, we will be able to finance, for 700 million euros, the maintenance of the level of winter emergency accommodation throughout the summer. That decision had been announced. Our choice is to ensure that, after the crisis, the number of emergency accommodation places is maintained at a particularly important level. We also propose to finance for EUR 350 million the first sectoral aid paid to farmers, such as that relating to the marketing of broutards, to help them cope with certain hazards such as yellow beet or the first compensation for the consequences of the freeze that we experienced at the beginning of April, deployed as part of the Prime Minister's commitment to allocate EUR 1 billion for them. We also propose to include 100 million euros to finance the sport pass announced by the President of the Republic, as well as 57 million euros to finance the renewal of several provisions concerning the priority neighbourhoods of the city policy (QPV). We also propose that you include EUR 150 million to finance higher education scholarships, which have been increased due to the consequences of the crisis for the student world, as well as EUR 82 million to help New Caledonia cope with the difficulties it has experienced and the crisis has amplified. Finally, this draft law on amending finance contains several "letter" provisions, all of which are intended to accompany the exit of the crisis and to better protect the French. We propose the renewal, for a third consecutive year, of the exceptional premium for the purchasing power exempt from taxes and contributions. In 2020, despite the crisis, more than €3 billion in premiums were paid to 560000 institutions. We also propose to extend the deadline for companies to subscribe to EMPs or to supplement those to which they have been able to subscribe in the past until 31 December in order to accompany companies in cash who would need to apply for EMPs in the coming months. As Mr Bruno Le Maire has indicated, we suggest that you deflate the carry back device and smooth it over three years. With regard to aid and tax schemes relating to enterprises, the Government will have an opinion in favour of the amendments adopted by the Finance Committee – on the initiative of the rapporteur-general as regards the rate of the reduction of income tax for subscription to the capital of SMEs – IR-SMEs, and of Mr Jean-Noël Barrot as regards the scheme for the payment of debts due in respect of rent, previously adopted. We will also propose, as I mentioned a moment ago, that the tariff losses of the companies be taken into account. Several public authorities, organised in the public industrial and commercial service (SPIC), were not able to receive public aid although they were subject to competition. Other authorities, organized in public administrative service (PPS), posted significant tariff losses. We will therefore propose a support mechanism, and we will have a favourable opinion on the amendment by Jean-René Cazeneuve, which allows both to clarify the scheme and to open it to a number of public service delegations, which may have the same characteristics and difficulties of taking care of them in the period that begins. Finally, other arrangements, included in this PLFR, do not have an impact on the public deficit within the meaning of the Maastricht criteria – I am thinking in particular of the abundance of EUR 600 million on the Fund for Economic and Social Development (FDES) for the financing of the anti-bankruptcy measures mentioned by Bruno Le Maire a few moments ago. We also propose that you authorise the State Shareholders' Agency to commit an additional €2 billion to respond to a number of planned operations and, finally, we propose that you abound the EUR200 million air traffic control advance account to help this sector cope with the crisis and the decline in sustainable aviation activity. Other subjects should feed our discussions, such as the possibility obtained by the French Government from the European Commission to authorise a duty free on Eurotunnel boarding docks at the Calais terminal; I am still thinking of an amendment by Sacha Houlié on the extension of the arrangements for the protection of households exempted until now from housing taxes and audiovisual fees. Not all of the measures we propose have an impact on the government deficit. I must point out that some, in particular the EUR 15.5 billion we commit to respond to the crisis and to accompany the exit from the crisis of our economy, result in a deterioration of the forecast public deficit. You passed a finance bill for 2021 that set a deficit target of 9%: today we are forced to review it upwards, with a forecast of 9.4%, which takes into account both the new spending we are proposing and tax revenues slightly higher than expected, which is evidence of the improvement in economic conditions. Similarly, we propose to revise the level of public debt to 117.2%, down from the projected public debt rate. This may seem paradoxical at a time when we are proposing additional spending, but it takes into account both the INSEE's upward revision of the level of gross domestic product (GDP) in previous years and the best prospects for economic growth this year. [[Applause fed on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups]] This amending budget, which we are proposing to you, thus illustrates both the will of the Government – and, I believe, the majority – to continue to support the economy during the post-crisis period, and its determination to demonstrate that fiscal sustainability and seriousness are not incompatible with the scale and ambition of the aid we are implementing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u10	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u11	Each of you can now observe it, our country opens again, after a winter that has lasted too long. As vaccination progresses: where the recovery of the economy is sketching out, but where the threat of more contagious or sometimes more virulent variants remains, we can adopt, I believe, a certain optimism, but vigilant optimism. On this occasion, it is up to us to draw up the way in which the public authorities will accompany this process. The amending finance bill before us – the sixth budget that we have been considering since the beginning of this crisis, before the settlement law that we will be considering next week – proposes a clear line for this transition period, namely the massive budget support for our country's communities, businesses and households. This is the "whatever it costs", which has been and will be carried out consistently until the end of the health and economic crisis. This text will present in a very simple and very clear way increases in budgetary appropriations and new tools for new perspectives. Continuity first, with tools that are known to us: for example, this text provides for the ratification of the advance decree of 19 May, which opened up 7.2 billion euros, in particular in favour of the solidarity fund. The finance committee of our assembly, like that of the Senate, had approved these appropriations, and this decree had made it possible to avoid a break in the cash flow of the solidarity fund and the partial activity. The draft law on amending finance proposes to supplement this reloading of the programmes of the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis" with appropriations for the solidarity fund, amounting to €3.6 billion, the partial emergency activity, for €2.2 billion, and the compensation to the social security of the exemptions from charges, for €4 billion. After the initial finance law (LFI), the carry-overs of €28.8 billion and the advance decree, this is therefore the last budget stone brought to the emergency building for the year 2021, bringing in total the amount of appropriations for the mission "Emergency plan" to €44.7 billion for this financial year. It should also be noted that a significant part of these appropriations is also used to finance rights opened last year. In the same perspective, this amending finance bill extends the lifespan of certain tools, such as the Solidarity Fund, until the end of August 2021. It also opens the possibility to apply for a State-guaranteed loan until the end of 2021. Finally, during the summer, in an incentive to take up business, it extends the aid for the payment of social contributions to small enterprises affected by health restrictions. This text also proposes, in addition to the adjustments I have just mentioned, a real change of approach for communities, businesses and households. For communities that have not been able to benefit from emergency measures under ordinary law, unlike private institutions with comparable activities, this was a blind spot in support of our economic fabric for more than a year. The solution proposed by this amending text for public services managed under management complements the overall aid scheme for local and regional authorities. Moreover, this text represents a change of perspective in the way in which public authorities view business support as part of a gradual return to normal. While the tools of the "whatever it costs" are legitimately completed and extended, the prospect remains of gradually limiting their scope, starting this month and during the summer, and ending, for the most part, from the beginning of September 2021. The end of emergency aid involves support for the top-of-the-line balance sheet and the own funds of our companies, so that their real viability is not jeopardized by a temporarily degraded balance sheet – the famous debt wall of our small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the aim, at the same time, of strengthening the appropriations for State shareholdings for EUR 2 billion, and of setting up a transition fund for enterprises with a total of EUR 3 billion. Finally, the deflation of the carry-back of deficits for the financial year 2020 over the previous three years, at a cash cost estimated at around €400 million, will be an additional tool for reinvigorating business and promoting investment. This support for the revival of our economy is also based on the legitimate repayment of the credits for the long-term partial activity used to finance the partial emergency activity to the tune of €4.2 billion. We had talked about this during the examination of the advance decree, and it seemed to me normal to recall that all the EUR 100 billion appropriations of the recovery plan are well restored in this text. In line with previous texts, it does not forget either households or workers. The timely reintroduction of the Macron premium defiscalised and desocialised until March 2022 bears the mark of the health crisis: the common law ceiling of 1000 euros is increased to 2000 euros in favour of employees on the second line. Here I call on all the employers of these car drivers, maintenance workers, cashiers and cashiers, handling and building workers, preparers and sellers of our bakeries and butchers, home helpers, household workers and security workers, to seize, if they can, the opportunity to pay their employees better. So, of course, all this has a cost to our public finances, and all these provisions lead to a sharp, marked deterioration of our indicators. The government deficit would reach EUR 219.5 billion, compared with EUR 173.3 billion in the initial finance law – as a reminder, EUR 178.1 billion in 2020 – and the share of the government deficit, all public administrations combined, would reach 9.4% of GDP, with an execution in 2020 of 9.2% of GDP, a slight deterioration. This deterioration is restricted by the increase in the forecast of tax revenues, a sign of a resilient economy in the recovery phase, as well as by the cancellation of certain credits put in reserve. That being said, it must be stressed, since, quite rightly, we are talking more and more about our country's debt and the conditions for its financing, that this additional deficit will not be financed by additional debt but by the cash available as a result of last year's debt programme. The medium- and long-term debt issuance programme is therefore not modified by this new text, it is important to mention this. In the face of the new budgetary situation, the time has begun to reflect on the strategy and tools for restoring our public finances. The April stability programme thus establishes a course of control of our public finances until 2027. The report of the commission chaired by Jean Arthuis proposes that a law on public finance programming (LPFP) should establish, at the beginning of the legislature, a five-year trajectory for the evolution of these expenditures: our assembly will soon have before it a proposal for an organic law on the governance of public finances that Eric Woerth and I have tabled and which proposes to make mandatory the adoption of such a trajectory in the PSSA. The Court of Auditors will not fail to contribute to these forecasts, to this work and to these initiatives in the coming days, and it will therefore be up to Parliament to decide, after the national democratic deadlines of 2022, on the path that will allow France to control its deficit, its debt and – I say it with some seriousness – its destiny. For the time being, this text allows us to draw up the perspective, specific to the coming months, of the emergency capacities calibrated to finance, to the end, everything that must be at the service of the communities, at the service of the enterprises, at the service of the households. The urgency and revival, as feared for more than a year now, are a collective success, supported, it must be said, by a very large number of political forces present here, composing the assemblies. It would be logical, therefore, for this text to have as broad an agreement as that obtained by the draft amending finance laws for the year 2020 and the plan to relaunch the PLF for 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] This text, ladies and gentlemen, is the continuation and, in part, the point of arrival of the sequence that we started together fifteen months ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u12	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u13	Having only five minutes, I will not detail the measures of this PLFR, with which we are in an in-between: between dog and wolf, between emergency and recovery, just before the post-covid, in a kind of budgetary obscurity. Thus, the structural balance and the cyclical balance intersect between 2020 and 2021 – it will have to be explained to us. A number of measures, considered ad hoc, become permanent measures. In addition, it is an emergency text, not a stimulus text, as evidenced by the increase in the amounts from 2020 to 2021 – €45 billion in appropriations for the emergency plan in 2021, more than in 2020. The share of emergency expenditure, on the other hand, far exceeds that of stimulus expenditure, since it can be estimated to represent 150% of stimulus expenditure against only 20% in the BIA, without taking into account the tax measures, which are probably necessary to support the economy, which the rapporteur general, the minister and the minister delegate have detailed. Thus, with this PLFR, public expenditure reaches almost 61% of GDP. This is absolutely catastrophic, in any case, stratospheric. The growth estimate remains at 5%. Government revenues increased by 4 per cent and expenditure increased by 4.7 per cent. According to the High Council for Public Finance (HCFI), the increase in public expenditure of 66 billion euros compared to last year includes so-called ordinary expenditure for 41 billion, while the expenditure on support and recovery amounts to only 25 billion. Good spending attracts bad spending. For the second consecutive year, the amount of our loan will be almost equal to that of pensions and higher than that of our tax revenues. The budget deficit for 2021 represents 80% of tax revenue. These exceptional figures are obviously abnormal. Mr Minister for Economy, Finance and Recovery, in committee, you said that we had to get back to normal. As you know, we are still in an abnormal situation. Only a strong growth over time, combined with rigorous control of public spending, will allow us to find the solution of a return to balance, without which we will be at the mercy of all events. Let me recall an anecdote that has nothing to do with public finances. In July 1961, sixty years ago, the best mountaineers in the world – our former colleague Pierre Mazeaud was – took part in the conquest of an extraordinary challenge: the ascent of the Frêney pillar in the Mont-Blanc massif, one of the last unexplored pillars of the Alps. This extraordinary team, faced with this extraordinary challenge, suddenly saw time change in an absolutely unpredictable way, going from full summer to full winter. The challenge was enormous, it could not be met and the drama came because the team was not prepared for this impossible change of time. France must prepare for the change of time: to increase rates, to change monetary policies or to international economic tensions. If we do not, then we risk dangerously compromising its sovereignty, solvency and the sustainability of its own policies. [[Mr. Laurent Saint-Martin applauds]] I shall therefore vote in favour of this text, as I have voted for the precedents, which include emergency and recovery measures, because they are obviously necessary. This text does not correspond to what we had planned; moreover, you had entered almost no emergency credit in the PLF for 2021. I look forward to seeing signs of control over our regular spending by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u14	In the general debate, Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u15	Today, while the prospect of an end to the health crisis now seems closer than ever, there is a wind of optimism in our country. This week, it was the sports halls and covered markets that reopened their doors. We welcome foreign tourists again and we can enjoy bars and restaurants a little longer in the evening. Nevertheless, we still have a long way to go to find our old lives. We will go through it together, as we have been doing for eighteen months. The amending finance bill we are considering today reaffirms the full support of the state to protect our citizens and businesses as long as the health crisis remains, and to support them towards recovery. It is a realistic support: if the epidemic situation improves day after day, the precariousness and difficulties it caused will not disappear with the vaccination campaign and the arrival of the fine days. Today, we are voting for the maintenance of 200,000 emergency accommodation places for the most vulnerable audiences; for the renewal in 2021 of the exceptional purchasing power premium for employees whose salary is less than three times the SMIC, representing an increase in purchasing power of up to 2000 euros, especially for those on the second line who have tirelessly contributed to the functioning of our country during the difficult periods of confinement; for the opening of an exceptional €350 million allocation for the agricultural sector to help farmers cope with the consequences of the March freeze and the avian influenza epidemic. The La République group will go even further by defending an amendment earlier so that the modest elderly can continue to be exempt from the housing tax and from the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. We will also expand the revenue taken into account in the safety net to compensate for the losses of local and regional authorities, which we introduced in July 2020 and renewed for the year 2021. Finally, it is difficult to talk about the future without mentioning young people. The text devotes them important resources: EUR 100 million are mobilised to facilitate access to sports practice for young people from low-income backgrounds and for people with disabilities; the funding of scholarships on social criteria for students is secure; 110 million are again invested in the scheme of the summer quarters so that all children, especially those who cannot go on holiday, can enjoy fun activities this summer. Nearly one in four children is now involved. The text also foresees the acceleration of the recovery plan, which the majority voted in December and which devotes EUR 100 billion to the daily lives of the French and their future. These resources are allocated to job creation, the thermal renovation of housing and the installation of high-speed broadband throughout the territory. The amending budget allows us to speed up the financing of the most efficient schemes, such as measures to support industry. As part of the recovery plan, €35 billion is being mobilised to decarbonize, relocate, innovate and modernise production chains. These massive investments create an unprecedented dynamic in favour of France's competitiveness and attractiveness in all territories. But this attraction is not decreed, it is built. The French know that they can have confidence in the future of their country and our international partners as well. It is not we who say it, it is a fact: in 2020, for the second year in a row, France is the first European country to welcome international investment. Last year, despite the crisis, we hosted 985 investment projects across the country, including 115 research and development centres. These investments represent more than 30,000 jobs created. This first place is the result of the effective economic policy that we have been leading since 2017 and that the recovery plan is increasing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For our most fragile citizens, for our young people, for our farmers, for our SMEs, for all of us, the Republic on the move group will support the amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u16	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u17	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u18	This June should have been the month of the economic recovery, the month of the return of growth and therefore the month of a powerful revival of our country. Unfortunately, we are still a long way from the point of view. Not only does the economic situation remain very precarious for many companies that have been in arrears for 18 months of crisis, but the sectors that were hoping at last to be able to return very strongly remain limited in their development by the gauges imposed by the health situation, the shortage of raw materials or the difficulties of recruitment – as you pointed out, Minister. The situation really does not invite us to give in to triumphalism. Growth in the first quarter was very disappointing, with a 0.1-point decline in GDP, when the Government was aiming for positive growth. The level of public spending remains high, deficits are rising and debt is reaching a new historic record of 117 per cent of GDP, 20 points higher than before the crisis, placing us in a situation of maximum alert. The discrepancy between the optimistic forecasts and the reality of the economic situation in our country is due to the fiasco of the start of the vaccination campaign, which was the worst start among the countries of Europe and caused us to lose three months on the recovery. Today, we pay the price, having to postpone the exit of the "no matter what it costs". The result of the races: as the epidemic finally recedes – we can only rejoice – we are obliged, within the framework of this new PLFR, to put back 15 billion euros. Since the beginning of 2021, the Government has had to add €22 billion to what was voted in the original finance law last December. As a result, this PLFR provides for more emergency measures than economic recovery. We are therefore very far from the exit of aid. Let us make it clear: while we in the Republican Group have real reservations about the health management of the crisis, we have always taken our responsibilities, voting for emergency measures and supporting the logic of "whatever it takes" as long as the crisis lasts. We have even helped to improve emergency arrangements and have pushed the Government to do more, including by offering cancellations of expenses, taking over the fixed costs of the most affected companies, as well as aid for the payment of commercial rents. These emergency measures were vital for companies grappled with the health crisis, three confinements and as many periods of administrative closure, and months of life under bells. The solidarity of the nation was indispensable with regard to cafes, restaurants, hotels, discotheques, cinemas, theatres and tourism actors. It remains necessary today, despite the arrival of better days and the hope that this terrible crisis will finally be behind us. We will therefore vote for this PLFR to accompany these companies and begin the transition towards the end of the aid, while recalling that these measures are not intended to last beyond the summer. However, this vote does not prevent us from taking a lucid look and pointing out certain flaws in the Government's policy. The first is, of course, the budgetary drift towards increasingly uncontrolled public expenditure. If we support emergency spending, the crisis must not lead the Government to give up its control of public accounts permanently. That is exactly the slope that we are following today and that the chairman of the Committee on Finance has rightly denounced right now. Indeed, the Court of Auditors regrets that, of the 66 billion additional expenditure in 2021, 41 billion euros, or almost two thirds, correspond to ordinary expenditure, thus unrelated to the crisis. In 2021, France could be the country where the burden of public spending is growing the fastest. Unfortunately, our public finances are already much worse off than those of our neighbours...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u19	What are we not doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u20	... and therefore make us more vulnerable: the fault of a lack of political courage on the part of your government, despite the beginning of a quinquennium marked by three years of growth. With our current level of debt, it would take France sixty-seven years to regain its pre-crisis level of debt, when seven would be enough for Germany. This surge in our debt is all the more worrying given that the global recovery is accompanied by an upturn in interest rates, which will mechanically increase the interest burden on our debt. I would point out that the Court of Auditors calls on the Government to be vigilant, while the issue of the sustainability of public debt is more urgent than ever. The other flaw in economic policy is the explosion of our trade deficit, the result of a total absence of industrial policy over the last four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u21	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u22	Your government constantly repeats that it refuses to increase the taxes of the French, but the reality is very different: you do so mechanically, in particular by extending the contribution to the repayment of the social debt (CRDS) which was to be extinguished in 2024 but which, in the end, will be extended until 2033.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u23	It's not new!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u24	[[Mr. Eric Woerth applauds]] Nevertheless, Members of the Republican Group will vote for this PLFR, which is expected by the economic players, and hope, of course, that you will adopt a number of amendments which we propose and which we believe are essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u25	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u26	Day after day, we are emerging from a health, economic and social crisis that seized our country, like the rest of the world, a little over a year ago. It is an opportunity to recall several successes and to greet those who were the artisans. This is first of all a success in health, which we owe to the extraordinary commitment of our caregivers, who have tested and now vaccinate, both massively and free of charge. Soon, half of the French will have received their first dose of vaccine. Reactor doctors, city doctors, nurses, ambulance attendants, stretchers, life attendants, firefighters and so many others have contributed to this effort, while Segur's agreements will strengthen and strengthen our health system, that the rest of the world envy us. It is also a success in economics, thanks to your mobilization, Minister, Minister Delegate, and your services, from Bercy's offices to the DDETS – Directorate of Development and Employment, Work and Solidarity. As part of the mission on the territorial economic rebound that you entrusted to me, I saw with my eyes and then attest to the effectiveness of the support measures and France's revival. At Safran Nacelles in Le Havre, or at Continental in Sarreguemines, partial activity and long-term partial activity have kept skills that are usually so difficult to find. At Michelin in Saint-Doulchard, near Vierzon, at Pequiniet in Morteau, or at Corsica Comptoir in the Corsican Eastern Plain, calls for projects launched by France's relaunch allow us to accelerate investment, maintain employment in the territories and relocate production. In Villeneuve-sur-Lot, or in Pamiers, in Ariège, the wasteland fund, which you have usefully reloaded, Minister and Deputy Minister, will allow to requalify and recapture some wasteland, which are all markers of the industrial decline of certain territories of our country.You said, Minister, yes, we will gradually emerge from the "no matter what it costs". We're going to move from ready-to-wear to tailor-made. This is the purpose of this draft law on amending finance: to accompany the rebound, while supporting the sectors and French in difficulty, with 15 billion euros dedicated to emergency measures, 3 billion euros to the new transitional fund which comes along with the remarkable scheme that you have just announced relating to the treatment of the difficulties of small businesses, 700 million for emergency accommodation, 100 million for young people and access to sport, and 400 million for aid for farmers. The text also contains strong measures, which the Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) Group and related democrats have been defending for more than a year, such as the postponement of deficits. We will make a number of proposals again this year, which we hope they will convince you. Together with Jean-Paul Mattei, we will propose to facilitate changes in activity and to apply the levy at source to certain income from capital, in particular property income. With Mohamed Laqhila, we will propose to go further in the area of VAT self-liquidation, in order to facilitate the lives of businesses. With Christophe Jerretie, we will propose to facilitate the mobilization of precautionary savings for farmers. And with Jimmy Pahun, we'll make pole proposals. We also believe that it is necessary to activate the savings of the French, which has accumulated in accounts with a view, so that the latter can finance the companies of France and thus enable them to innovate and invest. One of the great successes of the PACTE law – the law on business growth and transformation – is the retirement savings plan, which has become the preferred retirement savings product of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u28	We will propose to give him a little boost to make him even more attractive. On the other hand, it said by others before me in this rostrum, our group was, is, and will be attentive to the recovery of public finances. The EUR 20 billion in covid-19 debt, we will repay them, first of all thanks to the return of growth, for which the recovery plan is a major tool – I have already said so; Then thanks to the mobilization of the French, who immunize themselves and participate in this effort through their consumption and savings. For the second consecutive year, France is Europe's most attractive country for foreign investment. In the same spirit as the one that has been leading us since 2017, it is therefore necessary to continue the reforms – which bear fruit – which must also concern the laws of finance. In this respect, multi-annual budgetary programming, which will be submitted to us in the context of a proposal for an organic law, is a good thing that we very much welcome. Finally, as far as the deficit and debt are concerned, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion must continue. In this area, the agreement you reached in the G7, the President of the Republic and yourself, Minister, is absolutely historic. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, and in a constructive spirit, the members of the Dem Group will vote for this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u29	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u30	The correction of a budget is an important moment: it is even a moment of truth, a moment that tells us a lot about your ability to anticipate the expected cost of the measures necessary to safeguard our businesses and support families and associations. It is a time that also speaks volumes about your ability to anticipate economic recovery and estimate the needs to ensure a smooth transition between emergency measures and accompanying recovery measures. It is a time that speaks volumes about your ability, or willingness, to correct social or territorial injustices. Finally, it is a time that says a lot about your will – or stubbornness – to keep, rather than correct, your ultraliberal political line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u31	Four hundred billion is ultraliberal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u32	Four hundred billion euros, it's expensive for ultraliberalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u33	Bruno Reagan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u34	And to address this moment of such importance, you impose on us the month of June. What a timing! This happens when the Finance Committee is largely occupied by the spring of the evaluation of public policies and by the examination of the draft bill for the regulation of the budget and approval of the accounts for the year 2020, when the general rapporteur of the budget is fishing – in the votes of course –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u35	Ah, I was scared!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u36	...and when the country is in an electoral period and the Government is on the run.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u37	I'd have done well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u38	Anyway, it's a very bad time. It's not very serious: it's even irresponsible. There is every reason to believe that the debates are determined according to the electoral issues. You are announcing good intentions for the departmental and regional elections, but in reality these do not take shape in this text. In the end, your opportunism is to wait for the budget for 2022, so that the aid eventually arrives during the presidential campaign – as if by chance. You are obsessed with electoral issues and, as many opposition elected officials point out, you are locked in dogmatism that makes you blind and plunges our country into inequity and injustice. To bring you back to your senses, the Socialist and Related Group will defend several amendments, dealing with three essential points. The first aims to generate new revenues to limit our debt. Indeed, the debt situation is such that the solvency of France will tomorrow be a major issue. As you know, growth will not do everything. We will not allow you to be engulfed in the near future in austerity, synonymous with a drastic fall in spending, with structural reforms on the backs of the most fragile, namely the unemployed and pensioners. We need these revenues to make it easier to raise the wages of home helpers, launch the old age plan, or even further strengthen the hospital – the subjects are not lacking. We offer you the exceptional contribution of some – the richest –, those who have best emerged from the crisis. We ask you to re-establish the ISF – a solidarity tax on wealth – whose removal has led to the loss of €3.2 billion in revenue. This amount would make it possible to distribute 1000 euros to 3.2 million pensioners with modest pensions, i.e. a sort of thirteenth month. You see, at the end of the day, it takes little to be happy! We also ask you to introduce an additional income tax tranche and remove the flat tax. We ask you to increase the digital services tax – the GAFA tax. These big digital players have benefited greatly from the crisis, but the tax has finally brought back only half of what was planned: go and understand something! Similarly, we ask you to increase the tax on financial transactions. Our second series of amendments aims to make your budget waterproof, so as to close "holes in the snowshoe", as we like to say. First of all, these amendments concern young people, about whom we have constantly alerted you. In the end, it is a right to employment and training that we owe to them. Everything must be done in that direction, failing which we owe them compensation. Because while you're lying on semantics, so you don't have to admit that we're right, the kids are standing in line in front of the food banks. I hope you hear the demands we make on their behalf. Also in response to the social emergency, we ask you to release EUR 100 million for emergency shelter for victims of domestic and family violence: EUR 50 million for minors and EUR 50 million for victims of sexual and gender-based violence. Finally, our third set of amendments will deal with state aid. All CAC40 companies received aid during the crisis. If it was necessary to prevent them from crashing, so much the better! Except that they announced 62,500 job cuts worldwide, half of them in France, while showing profits for thirty-four of them – even more than 2 billion euros for ten of them. However, 42 billion euros of dividends were distributed during the crisis and 51 billion euros are expected to be distributed this year. Total, for example, removes 2,300 items, but pays 7 billion euros to its shareholders. Of course, capital must be paid, but not with public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u39	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u40	If the expenditure on young people is to take place under conditions, then we must admit that social and ecological compensation is required for public aid to larger companies. That is the minimum that can be desired for a more just and equitable society, without slowing down the necessary growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u41	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u42	This amending finance bill once again demonstrates, if necessary, the violence of the crisis not only in our economy, but also in our public finances. These have been mobilized, probably as never before in modern history, to cushion the impact of the crisis on our citizens, local authorities and businesses. This situation and this bill lead us to two observations. The first concerns the state's response throughout the crisis. I believe that this has been recognised quite unanimously: France has quickly taken a series of effective support measures for economic actors. The objective was twofold: first, to safeguard the jobs of the French, because the support of the companies is intended to prevent our citizens from experiencing unemployment; Then, and perhaps we have not said enough, to accompany the efforts of the superheroes of this country, those who, in the first or second line, led the fight against this epidemic. I am thinking of caregivers and, more broadly, all those who have mobilized. We all know, personally, one or more of these superheroes and it is a question of telling them that their efforts to save lives and that the energy they have devoted to them have not been in vain and that the State also ensured that the other sectors affected by this crisis were preserved. This PLFR is of particular importance as it is the tool to support the exit from the crisis. We cannot make any mistakes on this phase as important as the previous one, because a poorly controlled or too brutal exit could destroy the colossal work that has been done for more than a year to keep our economy afloat. It is therefore necessary to replenish the support mechanisms which have proved their worth, whether they are the solidarity fund, the partial activity or the exemption from contributions. These additional appropriations, amounting to EUR 15.5 billion, will allow suitable support until the end of the summer, or even later. However, sectoral accompaniment, sewn in line with the real constraints of the sectors most affected and whose activity is seasonal or requires time for recovery, must be given priority. Let's try to avoid the holes in the snowshoe right now. I would add that the Government should pay attention to the ultramarine territories, so that they can benefit from an appropriate timetable. Among the other emergency measures contained in this PLFR, the Action Together Group welcomes the extension of the PGE scheme until the end of the year, the welcome relaxation of the mechanism for the carry-back of profits – the carry-back – and the introduction of a mechanism for compensating the losses of the municipal block authorities. The renewal of the exceptional purchasing power premium for the third consecutive year is also noteworthy. This premium, which is valued by employers and employees, is a very good tool for recognizing and valuing work, as well as a boost to purchasing power. In our view, it is not just a crisis response, and we will also propose, by way of amendment, that employers continue to be able to pay it to their employees. In addition to these specific measures to respond to the crisis, there are also redeployments of funds within the "Recovery Plan" mission, which shows that disbursement is proceeding quickly and effectively. Finally, measures to support the most affected sectors and public sectors will make it possible to finance, among other things, emergency accommodation, sport passes or the first aid for the agricultural sector. The list of all these support measures and the billions of euros they involve brings us to our second observation, on the state of our public finances. The figures give the turn: the government deficit and debt will reach respectively 9.4 and 117.2 % of GDP, while the government's forecast deficit is € 219 billion. Of course, we have supported the strategy to do everything possible to protect the French and the economy "no matter what" but we are also fully aware that we will have to establish, more than quickly, the strategy necessary to remedy this situation. Minister, Minister Delegate, perhaps you have already made assumptions: know that we are ready to work with you. The Group of the European People's Party will vote, you will understand, in favour of this PLFR 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u43	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u44	While the covid-19 pandemic has squandered entire parts of our economy with many job cuts and bankruptcies, some of which may still be coming, this PLFR is part of a stimulus that the Government has wanted to drive in the country while moving towards a prudent path of growth. This PLFR intervenes in a context of maximum protection of our economic fabric and of return to progressive but sustained normal. We welcomed the additional EUR 15.5 billion that will abound the exceptional support arrangements until the end of August. It was difficult, if not impossible, to do otherwise, except by ignoring the reality that still affects entire parts of our economy. This budget, which presents itself as an exit from the health, economic and social emergency regime, wishes to begin to mark the end of the "no matter what it costs", even if it actually continues to increase it. We regret the lack of clarity between the recovery measures and those urgently needed. Throughout this challenging year, the IDU and independent group has endeavoured to support our country's businesses by making proposals to the Government: abolition of the privileges of public creditors, introduction of a reduced rate of 5.5% of VAT in the hotel sector, for example – ideas that we will once again defend, for some of them, in the context of the review of this PLFR. Of course, we can only strongly support the new social measures and the effort to extend the accompanying arrangements for businesses, which have been particularly difficult in a year. It should be remembered, however, that with the €7.2 billion of appropriations added at the beginning of May during the pre-decree and the $15.5 billion released by this amending budget, the cost of emergency measures reached €43.1 billion in 2021: exceptional support to deal with an unprecedented situation that has marked this legislature indelibly. We welcome the €3.4 billion increase in the solidarity fund's appropriations, the new €4 billion exemption from social contributions and the extension of the partial activity scheme to €6.4 billion. Given the uncertainty of the current context, I would like to welcome the new appropriations, in particular the EUR 82 million in exceptional aid for New Caledonia. This aid is the result of a long process initiated from the beginning of the health crisis in March 2020. On 14 April 2020, Philippe Gomès and I asked the Prime Minister that the State undertake to transform the cash loans granted to New Caledonia which it guarantees into exceptional financial assistance. Last March, we also stressed to the Prime Minister the need for national solidarity towards the territory, both economically and in terms of the vaccination strategy. We are pleased that the State has been able, as is necessary under exceptional circumstances, to go beyond the question of the strict division of powers, particularly in New Caledonia, and to make national solidarity, with this exceptional assistance of 10 billion MFF, not a mere incantation but a concrete reality; Thank the Government for that! There are, however, some emergency measures in this PLFR which are inadequately adapted to the realities of the overseas countries and territories: I will defend amendments which aim to take better account of the additional constraints facing these territories. We can only be astonished by the gross cancellation of €20 million of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations from the Security Mission. This decline is in contradiction with the objective, shared across the board, of combating crime and terrorism. We have tabled two appeal amendments on this subject. As the High Council for Public Finance rightly pointed out in its opinion, the deterioration of public finances is worrying, since the deficit is expected to grow slightly more than the already high level of 9% planned so far. We are convinced that the issue of debt remains one of the major issues in the coming years, not to say the next few months. It will be necessary to face more concretely this sword of Damocles hanged above our heads. In addition to the establishment of the Arthuis Commission, there are a few questions about the Government's debt reduction strategy, the possibility of keeping the promise not to increase taxes and the timing of a strategic plan to reduce or sustain – to resume your term, Minister – public spending, which will have to be based on a hunting for waste and bureaucracy. In spite of these few reservations, the IDU and independent group will, you will understand, support the adoption of this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u45	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u46	In the face of this crisis that is beyond all of us, the Government has decided to maintain its financial commitment, which is positive. Indeed, there can be no question of abandoning economic actors at a time when the recovery we are waiting for begins. We are also aware of the difficulty of adapting aid according to the vitality of the sectors and the variations in growth. We therefore agree with the decision to reallocate appropriations to certain essential arrangements, in particular the Solidarity Fund. Looking at the architecture of this collective budget, we see that the appropriations finance the emergency more than the transition and the recovery, since you grant €9.8 billion to the emergency plan alone. Of the EUR 100 billion, 40% must come from the European Union, but aid is still waiting. It took a full year to validate the EU's €750 billion plan. Mr Minister, we all hope that European money will arrive as soon as possible; In committee, you told us that we should quickly receive 5 billion euros: why such a small amount? The start-up of the recovery plan remains affected by the slow pace in Europe. As we have already mentioned, the Libertés et Territoires Group regrets that aid does not adapt – or not adapt – to local specificities. Our economic fabric is heterogeneous and the current response is too uniform: why not rely more on communities, especially regions? My constituency offers a compelling example of this: Corsica, the territory most affected by the crisis, will be least helped by the recovery plan. The impact of the EUR 20 billion reduction in production taxes will be very limited: only a few companies will receive aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u47	But we pay taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u48	This is the typical example of a measure forged in a global logic, uniform and far from local needs. The transition fund you are setting up is a necessity: why not decline it territorially? We will propose an adaptation of the devices to Corsica, in order to optimize the impact and prevent the undue slippages that we regret. All schemes must promote business creation, employment and not speculation. In addition, there are some credit movements that are perplexing: EUR 4 billion of the recovery plan has been used to finance the emergency and we are being dragged into a waltz of more than EUR 16 billion, which leaves only a short time to build another plan. The High Council for Public Finance is already alerting us: public spending exceeds EUR 1470 billion in 2021, an increase of 66 billion compared to 2020. Debt exceeds 117 per cent of GDP, surpassing the 2008 record. In 2020, negative rates supported this increase, but an increase in rates, which is not excluded, would expose us to a brutal shock. The question is recurrent: who will pay for the addition of the budget open bar? You always answer with the formula "growth will pay": we all want to believe it, but will that be enough? Since 2020, many large multinationals have made unprecedented profits: how would it be indecent to make use of them? Why not take up the proposals of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the OECD in this regard? You want to avoid any tax increases, but you're going to extend the contribution for social debt repayment until 2042, which is an implicit tax increase. We rest the question of the difficult choices raised by the President of the Republic; Minister, we know you are in favour of a pension reform before 2022: will it come about? We regret that, as in previous finance bills, the social component remains the weakest: I want to welcome the commitment to emergency accommodation, but other promises are slow to materialize. I will mention only one example, that of the food cheque: I regret that our proposal to deploy it without delay was considered inadmissible. It remains to be hoped that the growth forecasts on which your policy is based will be realized in practice. I suppose that wish is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u49	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u50	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Finally! Finally, a good news: the carry back! In fact, I should have been wary of that English word. This text allocates EUR 500 million to the carry back; I didn't know what it was: I thought "carry" means "carrying" and "back" means "back", so that's a measure for those who put us on their backs at the heart of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u51	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u52	...– the first of chores, the essential workers. They have been waiting in vain for a year: indeed, it has been a year since the President of the Republic said: "We must remember [...] that our country [...] relies entirely on women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u53	What about the Segur?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u54	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Carry back is actually a tax gift. If a company has a year of deficit, the tax authorities allow it to carry it over to the previous year, thus reducing the profit and recovering money. Isn't that clear? Let's give examples! Total claimed €7 billion in losses in 2020, probably because people rolled less: this did not prevent the group from paying the same amount of €7 billion in dividends to its shareholders this spring, as much as last year and the penultimate one. We feel sorry for them, so we're planning on carrying back to relieve their corporate taxes. The carry back will help other unfortunate ones: Engie, who paid 1 billion euros in dividends, the Société Générale, who distributed 467 million, Unibail, Renault, etc. I don't want to tire you with that list of miseries. This pledge to our poor will cost 500 million euros, or about 14 euros per French household. This morning, each French household pays 14 euros to Total, Engie and the others. The carry back is in addition to the tens of billions of euros of tax credit for competitiveness and employment, the exemption from charges, the reduction of productive taxes, etc. All this is sprinkled blindly without conditions, counterparties or guarantees. It's really pure generosity! You will tell me that "today, for 500 million, you have nothing" because of the cost of living, notably by the euro. What could this droplet be for? Last Thursday, the accompanying students of students with disabilities (AESH) were on strike: I met about 20 of them in Amiens, who explained to me their misfortunes and, above all, the weakness of their pay – from 700 to 800 euros at best, therefore under the minimum wage of national education. Valérie told me that she accompanied her student to the canteen at lunchtime, but that she did not have the means to eat, the cost of 3.70 euros of the meal being too high for her. I have done a tabletop calculation: if we increase the monthly salary of 400 euros of the AESH 100,000 so that they can receive more than the SMIC, it would cost 480 million euros per year. We could, you could, do this for them this morning: transform the lives of 100,000 women, get them out of poverty and fully recognize their profession for about 500 million euros. But, for them, it's been dragging for years and it's going to go on, as we're going to vote for the carrier back at the stand. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The situation is the same for social auxiliaries (AVS): during the health crisis, they continued, without masks or gloves, to visit the elderly: they never abandoned them, while they received wages of misery, lower than the SMIC, and went through hard work. Last autumn, we voted for a EUR 200 million envelope for them: it was the ola in the Chamber, we applauded and we kissed each other. Hallelujah! This represented 25 euros per auxiliary, which has not yet been paid. Finally, only €56 million will be allocated to AVS income; For the following years, we will have to deal with the departments, the associations and the social security: for them, it is immediately difficult to find the circles. Are we going to do the ola for the carry back? Are we going to applaud each other and kiss each other? Probably not, because it's the routine here to give money to firms. Last example: this Wednesday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, as part of the examination of the bill on various social justice measures, we discussed a reform of the AAH – the allowance for disabled adults – so that it guarantees the disabled person a real autonomy, that its payment ceases to depend on the income level of the spouse, that the love stories cease to break down on the decline of income, on reproaches, of the "You live on my hook! " Everyone agreed – the Senate, the right, the IDU and independent groups, Liberties and territories, Socialists and related parties, Democratic and Republican Left, France unsuspecting. Everyone, except the La République group on the move. The summary statement of the amendment which prevented such a reform began as follows: "Beyond its very high cost of EUR 730 million [...]". But it's the same order of magnitude as the carry back, of which no one will find the "very important" cost on these benches! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] Anyway, your priorities haven't changed, it's always the money before people. But who was on the front line last year? The managers of Total, the shareholders of Engie?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to respect the speakers, regardless of their point of view. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u56	This first amending finance bill for 2021 could have been called "PLFR 5", as it is in keeping with the measures taken since the beginning of the crisis. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will oppose it, as it opposed the previous drafts of the amending finance law, less for the measures it contains than for those it does not contain. This PLFR is similar to the previous ones: you are once again abounding with the appropriations of the programmes aimed at supporting companies, among others, those who finance the solidarity fund and the partial activity. You are fine-tuning certain schemes and deploying new ones that will make it possible to cancel a portion of the debt of companies in financial difficulty, albeit viable. Yes, we believe that business support is essential. We have always said so, but we regret that it has not been more targeted, that it has not been made subject to social, ecological and, at times, simply ethical requirements. It is difficult for many French to imagine that companies can at the same time benefit from part of state aid, apply social plans and distribute dividends. We regret that you insist on refusing to give conditionality to state aid. However, these aids have had merit in showing that public accounting does not necessarily take precedence over political will and that, where the situation so requires, constraints, which are usually presented as insurmountable, can be lifted in order to act effectively and achieve results. The famous "whatever it costs" and your policy are variable geometry. How can we explain, if not, that you have not introduced a social policy of equal magnitude for households, sometimes in very difficult situations? Leaving close to 1 million more people below the poverty line is a political choice that increases inequality and poverty in our country. However, we have alerted you to the difficulties caused by the loss of 14% of income related to partial unemployment, for low wages. We have alerted you to the situation of many employees who rely not only on their basic wages for living, but also on overtime, extras and tips and who, with partial unemployment, sometimes lose almost 50% of their earnings. We also alerted you about the situation of precarious students, often forced to perform small jobs and, therefore, violently affected by their disappearance. As health constraints gradually rise and economic activity appears to be returning, the social crisis is far from over. With the 763 social plans of 2020, one can fear that the wave of redundancies will continue in 2021, with the fault, as I said, in part returning to the non-conditionality of the aid. While it is more necessary than ever to protect our most fragile citizens, you do not anticipate the fourth wave, which will be social. Yet the future is not dark for all. When some fear that they will not be able to pay their rent or their bills, the billionaires' wealth explodes and the CAC40 allows itself a record distribution of dividends, of 51 billion euros. It is indecent, as you are, you who always give up making use of these riches. However, we had made many proposals to that effect. Even though we all know that no tax, no exceptional contribution will fully cover the cost of the crisis, committing ourselves to a proportionate contribution by all to the national solidarity effort is a moral and political requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are gradually emerging from a major health crisis, the social crisis is still so acute. However, this amending finance bill does not attempt to improve our response on this point. Unless our new warning leads you to a revelation and a radical paradigm shift, during the examination of the text, we will therefore oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u57	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u58	The draft amending finance law for 2021 shows the need for national representation, in the continuity of its past action, to invest in organizing the support of the State and the public authorities during this extraordinary crisis. We Members must respond to our citizens and economic actors. We therefore take note of the maintenance of public expenditure aimed at maintaining activity in our country. We have all supported partial unemployment aid, the solidarity fund, or the cancellation of the tax and social charges for the most severely affected TPEs, these necessary measures. Yes, we must provide financial resources to support our economy and our fellow citizens. However, the "whatever it costs" is beginning to be expensive for our public finances and the money is not necessarily paid out to the right places. We cannot, in the aftermath of a vote that has brought so high an environmental emergency, remain so timid in terms of the eco-conditionality of aid granted to large companies, or even absolutely inactive when it comes to encouraging large fortunes to participate in the national effort, in the time of the reconstruction of our economy. We have therefore put proposals on the table: to assimilate assets included in the current IFI base – property wealth tax – liquidity and life insurance contracts not invested in units of account, i.e. in shares of companies; Regulating the mother-daughter scheme, a particular source of erosion of the SI taxable bases for groups with subsidiaries outside the European Union; modulate the mechanism of the tax on surplus provision of damage insurance undertakings; modulate the Copé niche, in order to avoid the increase of its cost; increase the tax share of the PFU – a single flat-rate levy – by three points for dividends and transfers of securities, therefore for income from capital; increase the exceptional contribution of very high incomes; Finally, to establish a demanding follow-up, with clearly defined ecological counterparts, for all the aid and subsidy schemes established by the State. With these few measures, let us take the opportunity to reorient aid and green our political and financial action. The collective Ecology democracy solidarity proposes to do more and better: I hope that our debates will convince you to follow this direction. In the case of debt, one cannot simply commit the State at record levels, without intervening on fiscal optimisation, disproportionate. There are still far too many opportunities to escape from the IS for some large companies, but also for sectors that have benefited mechanically from the crisis, such as finance and, more specifically, insurance. As such, I think that the carry back system, which has been deplorable in this bill, is quite worrying: we will have to go back to its encryption. On the other hand, we cannot let the most affluent taxes go: it is an issue of tax and social justice. Of course, the G7 agreement is a first step. Our amendments respond to a need for fairness, without damaging competitiveness, contrary to what the rapporteur-general claims, during his various public statements. Moreover, like 2020, 2021 will be a black year for young people, if we do not exceptionally extend many rights to them. I hope that, from now on, much stronger structural measures will be drawn up urgently to support them, especially when they are in a precarious situation. Our amendments aim, moreover, to reduce the niches that only very large groups, not SMEs, benefit from and which distort and increase unfair competition, to the detriment of companies that create jobs in France. Some of the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention would also deserve to be taken up. I have therefore again tabled an amendment calling on large companies to make a full carbon balance if they wish to be supported by the State. You will understand that I am in favour of the measures of this amending finance bill for 2021, while wishing to enrich it with massive measures of social justice, in accordance with the proposals that I have been supporting for months, as well as revenue measures, so that everyone contributes to the national effort to the extent of his capacity. While it is true that State investment has helped to alleviate a large number of enterprises during this economic crisis, thanks to partial unemployment and State-guaranteed loans, gaps persist. I regret to tell you that the deployment and effectiveness of aid during this pandemic for young people and the most vulnerable must be re-examined. And what cynicism! Those who refuse these aids at the national level reserve announcements for their campaign in the regional elections. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As speeches become increasingly violent, there is an urgent need for the Government to listen to the opposition's proposals, in order to appease a society in spite of which a government with a real plan for social progress is waiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u59	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u60	I now call the clauses of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u61	Mr Charles de Courson's amendment No 129 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u62	We are addressing the consideration of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u63	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 130, which contains an additional Rule before Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u64	This amendment, proposed by Charles de Courson, aims to make the title of the first part more realistic. In view of the deteriorating state of public finances, "financial balance" is only an illusion beyond reach for the state. In view of the Government's proposals, the additional appropriations and the total lack of control of expenditure, it is preferable to call the first part: "General conditions of financial imbalance".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u66	We will have ample opportunity to talk about the future of the balance of our public finances when we consider the proposal for an organic law that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and I will table in July. So I'll give you an appointment on this point in a few weeks. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u67	I have before me three amendments, Nos 413, 447 and 317, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 413 and 447 are identical. The President of the Committee on Finance has the floor to support Amendment No. 413.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u68	It aims to increase the maximum value of the restaurant ticket from 11 euros to 15 euros, the cost of such an increase being shared between the employer and the employees. This is a measure to support the revival of the catering sector. It is also quite natural, since the coverage share of restaurant tickets is increasingly low in the field of food. In addition, it complements the increase in the ceiling for the payment of restaurant tickets from 19 euros to 38 euros in restaurants – not supermarkets – decided by the Government. If the employer or employees do not want such an increase in the value of the restaurant ticket, they could negotiate a lower value. This would in any case be a good stimulus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u69	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 447.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u70	As part of the reopening of restaurants, the restaurant title can be used as a real stimulus mechanism, in order to increase the purchasing power of employees and to support the food and food sectors. Some, as you know, need it, the situations are very disparate in this sector. The maximum value of the restaurant title would be raised to EUR 15 and the exemption ceiling would increase from EUR 5.55 to EUR 7.50. This is a very simple measure to apply, consensual and quite virtuous, for both the beneficiary employees and the funders of restaurant tickets and, of course, for the 200000 restorers concerned. If you remain reserved for this measure, you should be aware that similar mechanisms have already been established outside our borders, in Austria, Romania or Bulgaria, to deal with the consequences of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u71	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u72	Proposed by Charles de Courson, it aims to increase the maximum value of the exemption ceiling from 5.55 euros to 7.50 euros. The restaurant title is the preferred social advantage of the French. Raising this value to 7.50 euros offers the possibility of increasing the restaurant title up to the symbolic sum of 15 euros, in order to raise the purchasing power of the employee. The aim of the amendment is to open up this scope of negotiation for companies who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u74	I am against these amendments for several reasons. The increase in the ceiling to 38 euros was a good solution to destock all the tickets and restaurant titles accumulated during the crisis. The amendments present a difficulty: the increase to EUR 7.50 will necessarily increase the employee's share pro rata, on a non-optional, non-optional and unwanted basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u75	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u76	I agree that the employer can better support its employees during the crisis: we have allowed it with the Macron bonus and with incentives to increase their purchasing power. But what bothers me with these amendments is that depending on the employer's participation – 40%, 50% or 60% – they actually lead to an increase in the employee's mandatory participation; This will be felt on the pay sheet. I am therefore not in favour of the options that are mandatory for employees, I prefer freedom of choice, priority to the destocking of restaurant titles and premiums such as EPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u78	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons as the rapporteur. This is an incentive to increase the tax exemption ceiling. If implemented, it would have a budget cost of $320 million at constant scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u79	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u80	Mr rapporteur-general, you put forward the argument that the employee's compulsory participation would be induced by this measure, but it does not hold. To increase or not this amount is a freedom that is left to the company, it is in no way an obligation. On the other hand, employees who do not want to see their participation increase may very well not ask for as many restaurant tickets as working days. The argument that you put forward, that this measure would automatically lead to a mandatory higher participation of the employee, therefore, I repeat, is not valid. You cannot take refuge behind, since the employee has the flexibility not to ask for restaurant tickets or ask for less. Deputy Minister, you are referring to the argument of cost. This means that this is really an increase in the purchasing power of employees, which would also benefit restaurants. I therefore do not understand that the majority do not take up such a subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u81	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u82	I am bouncing on what my colleague Véronique Louwagie has just said: the employee is never obliged to take the proposed restaurant tickets and can take as much as he wishes within the limits of the working days. He may take only fifteen days while he has worked thirty days. This measure would therefore not burden the employee, but rather increase his purchasing power. You know as I do that for employees, it is often a "plus", especially to go to the family restaurant during the holidays – when they can take them. This would boost the purchasing power of employees and would also help restorers. With the reopening and resumption of activity, not all are in the same situation: some are not doing too badly, but others have much more difficulty and would need this little boost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u83	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u84	The restaurant ticket has a value, which gives the employee access to products that are more expensive than what he actually spends. Therefore, it does not cost him more and he earns money. We must not only consider the purchase of the restaurant title, but also what it serves. This measure would not cost the employee any more, but would pay him for it, since he would pay less for his meals. This would also increase the level of purchase in restaurants. Finally, tax revenues – as can be seen from the 11 euro restaurant titles – pay more than they cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u85	The identical amendments No 125 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras and Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u86	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u87	The crises we continue to face remind us of the extent to which our system requires social cohesion. In recent months, with the drastic reduction of assisted jobs, the reduction of personalized housing subsidies (APL) and the revision of their calculation method, the undervaluation of certain social benefits – sometimes even their freezing – and, from 1 July, the unjust reform of unemployment insurance, the least we can say, is that the middle and affluent classes suffer from social policy. But some classes – a handful of people, I agree – have benefited from tax gifts, with the more than symbolic removal of the ISF and the exit tax, or the introduction of the flat tax. With a view to rebalancing, the Socialist and Related Group is presenting a series of amendments aimed at using, exceptionally, the richest, who have the capacity to do so, to relieve the middle classes which already contribute very widely. The contribution of the richest is necessary. It is enough to convince ourselves to look around us: the International Monetary Fund published on 11 May a note in which it encourages the taxation of the richest to deal with the crisis; In the United States, President Joe Biden wants to double the tax on market capital gains; In Spain, the President of the government Pedro Sanchez significantly increased the taxation on wealth for the most wealthy. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your responsibility. The crisis we are facing is not just health, it is also economic and will be social tomorrow. The future of France requires the participation of all, including the richest. The effort cannot be borne solely by the middle classes. Amendment No 190 is the first in a long series: it aims to create an additional income tax bracket.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u89	I thank Mrs Pires Beaune for the amendment, which allows me to recall that we live in a country where income tax and taxation in general are particularly redistributive. It should be noted that 10% of the personal income tax (PPI) taxpayers pay 70% of the tax revenue and 2% pay 40% of the tax revenue; income tax has a highly redistributive effect. With the change in the scale, we reduced it by 5 billion for households, especially for those entering this tax, i.e. the first instalments. The IRPP is already redistributive and we have improved its progressivity and redistributivity. It meets the needs you expect and should not be changed as it is. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u91	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u92	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u93	The amendment, and the series following it, must be placed in the general context. In 12 months of health crisis, French billionaires saw their wealth increase by 55%. A fact checking makes it possible to correct this statement: it is not 55%, but 68%. At the same time, an additional 1 million people went to the People's Relief and other charitable associations. What are you doing in front of this? If it is not income tax, if it is not the solidarity tax on wealth, if it is not exceptional taxes, what do you expect in the face of the explosion of inequalities, both at the top and the bottom? Twenty years ago, the 500 largest French fortunes had the equivalent of 5% of GDP; At the time of Emmanuel Macron's election, that was 20%; one year later, 25%; We're about to cross the 40 percent mark. What are you going to use as an instrument if it's not income tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u94	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u95	I'm learning that we have a 70% income tax bracket. I'm glad to hear that, but I imagine you're also taking social contributions into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u96	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u97	But in reality, Mr. Saint-Martin, the higher the income and the lower the effective tax rate, because of the tax niches – corresponding to 100 billion – that we still don't see grooming. The rates you are announcing do not exist in France. On the other hand, everyone can observe this: the higher the income and the lower the effective tax rate, because the tax base is pitted by many mechanisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u98	In view of the agenda, I call on you to respect the rules of the debate, namely two speakers per amendment, so that we can make good progress. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u99	I agree with you, rapporteur-general, that income tax is progressive and redistributive. That is why we should use it more. The total income tax revenue is around $74 billion; the product reported by VAT, the most unfair tax, is double. We have to make choices and income tax seems to me to be a good tool: we could have asked for this extra effort in the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u100	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u101	Mrs Cariou, I said that 70% of income tax proceeds were paid by 10% of taxpayers, I did not mention tax rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u102	Ah, fortunate you say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u103	I also said that 2% of taxpayers paid 40% of the proceeds of this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u104	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u105	If that's not redistributive... No other country has such a level of income tax redistribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u106	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u107	I will address the sensitive issue of the compensation of life attendants. They played an important role during the crisis: everyone goes with his thanks and his little words. Who could have no consideration for these dedicated women, under particularly delicate conditions during this period? Everyone knows the specific nature of their profession, in particular the difficult working conditions, but also the wages, hours and monthly, particularly low and fragmented working hours: many difficulties for a profession which mainly affects the privacy of families. A first reaction allowed the award of a bonus to recognize these difficulties, but it generated much debate and consultation with local authorities. Unfortunately, we have come to situations that are sometimes unfair, while living aids tend to say that, for the same trade and the same constraints, wages and recognition must be the same. This premium is insufficient and the sector faces major recruitment difficulties. The auxiliaries of life demand a complete revalorisation of the profession, of the statutes, but above all of the wages. While the Government had just committed itself to sharing with the departments the additional cost of an increase in wages, it could nevertheless be felt that it would fall back into the same way as the premium, with unequal treatment according to the statutes. This is why, perhaps because consensus has been reached, it is necessary to achieve a well-deserved, general and lasting revalorisation of wages. The State may also require the tax credit to be linked to the salary level of the life attendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u108	What?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u109	Employers could then benefit from the solidarity of the State provided that they respected a certain level of wages. That is the point of the amendment. All living aids would benefit, including those employed by private employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u111	I believe that the amendment seeks to draw the Government's attention to this category of persons. You're right to salute their work. However, this is not precisely a tax issue. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u112	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u113	Same opinion. The wording of the amendment does not specify the link between the level of remuneration and the tax credit. In addition, the employment of a home helper is covered either by the tax credit that you apply for without changing it or by terms related to social security coverage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u114	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u115	I will withdraw it, because it is indeed an appeal amendment. The introduction of the premium has created difficulties, the same will apply to the revalorisation of wages. I wonder how you will force individual employers to increase the wages of home employees. A solution must be found to impose a minimum wage, that people think that they enjoy the solidarity of the state to employ someone, but on condition that they pay a correct wage, as the auxiliaries of life and all other employees at home deserve. Such a system would have the advantage of covering all categories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u116	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u117	He was tabled in association with my colleague Jean-Paul Mattei. The single flat-rate levy is a good measure since it has brought in additional revenue to the State. With regard to the taxation of personal income, if the taxpayer opts for the income tax scale instead of the single flat-rate levy, this choice is comprehensive and irrevocable. It can take this option every year, regardless of the choices made in previous years. Unfortunately, many taxpayers are wrong by checking the box on the return. The amendment is therefore intended to delete the word "irrevocable".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u119	Unfavorable opinion. For administrative and technical reasons, it is much more complex to reconsider this choice of scale, once implemented. Moreover, this opinion is motivated by the way in which the tax administration accompanies taxpayers. The Law for a State Serving a Trusted Society (ESSOC) enshrined the right to error. The PFU is proposed by default: a taxpayer only opts for the scale after calculating that the scale was more interesting to him – and that's very good. As the administration directs you as a priority to the UFP, we have the right not to know that it is more interesting to choose the scale, but the opposite is not true. The current law is justified and consistent, so it is not necessary to make the choice of scale revocable, especially since it would be very complex to administer the floats caused by over-returns between PFU and IR scales.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u120	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u121	I would add that revocability would pave the way for optimisation. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u122	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u123	It is not about optimising: not everyone calculates what the tax will cost him. These are mistakes. In line with the right to the error that we created by voting the ESSOC law, I ask you to correct this article of the General Tax Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u124	I have before me three amendments, Nos 147, 285 and 65, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u125	In his speech, Mr Bruno Le Maire spoke of his concern to combat inequalities through this PLFR. Back to context: an additional 1 million people live below the poverty line, while the wealth of billionaires has increased by 55 per cent. If you really want to fight inequality, I propose that you adopt this amendment, which aims to increase by three the exceptional contribution of high incomes, namely more than 250,000 euros per year. After sampling, they will have enough to live properly. This will help to effectively combat inequalities. Even the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommends taxation of the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u126	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 285, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u127	Since the beginning of the legislature, there has been a fundamental disagreement between us in the area of tax justice. The debate will continue and will probably be at the heart of the campaign for the presidential election, as it has been at the heart of the yellow vest movement: the Government's fiscal policy is causing real malaise in the country. This amendment is intended to apply a one-time measure, inspired by a right-wing government – Mr Woerth must remember that. In 2011, the majority had introduced an exceptional high-income contribution to deal with the consequences of the 2008 crisis, explaining that it was necessary to demand an effort from the most affluent taxpayers, in a spirit of tax justice. It cannot be denied that the health crisis caused a major crisis and that an exceptional contribution would be just as justified in 2021. In order to respond to the urgency, we therefore propose to increase the rate of the first instalment of this exceptional high-income contribution from 3% to 8%, which corresponds for a single person to an income between 250,000 and 500,000 euros; for revenues between €500,000 and €1 million, we propose to increase from 4% to 10%. We're talking about the highest incomes here! This is a one-year interim measure, not a definitive one. This device would have a good yield. Above all, the country is very attentive to tax justice, but this measure would show that all French people contribute proportionately to the effort of national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u128	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u129	Thank you, Mr rapporteur-general, for your clarification of the scale of income tax. Mrs Pires Beaune's amendment was nonetheless interesting. While it is true that most of the income tax is paid by high incomes, VAT weighs all the more on the income of households as they are low. Nevertheless, the effective tax rate is higher for low-income households. I did not propose to raise the income tax scale, but the amendment that I support is intended to increase the exceptional contribution on high incomes. Mr. Peu recalled the context for its adoption in 2011; At the time, the measure was presented as a guarantee of budgetary seriousness vis-à-vis Europe, in order to ensure the most affluent contribution to the measures of budgetary responsibility adopted at the time. I propose rate increases measured against those covered by the previous amendments; My amendment also proposes deconjugalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u130	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u131	We are indeed in disagreement, Mr Little, about how to resolve the crisis and the imbalance in public finances. I maintain that any increase in compulsory levies would at the moment be counterproductive, as it would be a negative signal in times of recovery, consumption and investment. As long as we are in a period of urgency and economic recovery, I will be against any proposal to increase taxes, whatever the author. I agree with you regarding the interest of the debate; we will have to have it when the crisis is over and we will be on the way to a visible and credible public accounts recovery. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u133	For the same reasons as the rapporteur-general has just explained, the Government will be against all proposals to increase compulsory levies. We remain on a line of fiscal stability, or even a reduction in compulsory levies. My answers will therefore be more laconic about the other amendments concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u134	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u135	I would follow the same reasoning if there were to be an increase in VAT, which weighs on the consumption of all households. But we are talking about annual income of 250,000 euros per tax share, or 500,000 euros for a couple: these people have the means to pay a small contribution increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u136	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u137	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u138	We do not hope to resolve our disagreement with these amendments. They are not intended to adopt a long-term scheme, but a measure applicable for one year. We are not trying to upset the tax rule that you have given yourself and that we disagree. All French people are in an exceptional situation; A considerable amount of savings has been accumulated, but it should be noted that 70% of the French population is in debt, while the 20% of the French population is in debt during the health crisis. It would be important to give the country the sign of a fair distribution of effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u139	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u140	I think it is important to discuss income tax, but I am not sure that a measure of this nature is profitable, particularly that proposed by Mr Little's amendment. Did you calculate the tax revenue that would result from its adoption? We will have to discuss this when we look at the next finance bill, when we get further back, and during the campaign for the next presidential election. I am more convinced of the value of possible measures concerning financial flows and capital gains, in particular flat tax, for which we have specific elements for reflection. With the exception of property income, which is already well-taxed, income has already borne social charges. On the other hand, there are questions about income from capital, particularly capital gains and dividend distributions. But, once again, this is a discussion that we will have to have in the context of the next PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u141	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u142	We have this debate almost every time we examine a finance law, especially in times of crisis. Income tax is essentially paid by the rich, as you say, by the highest income – all statistics and studies are proof of this. Overall, French tax systems are very redistributive, compared to those in force around the world. Many exceptional measures have already been adopted, such as the exceptional surtax on income tax, which is now well-established. Mr. Few propose a measure applicable one year and no more. First of all, there is no financial need, Mr Mattei is right to say so. Then, in France, any provisional measure becomes a rule, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u143	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u144	It is good that the debate takes place, but that is not how the French economy will get away with it. The rate of compulsory levies, even if it is an average, is sufficiently high; We must not increase it if we want to make us want to do business.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u145	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 437, 438 and 439, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u146	These amendments, proposed by Mr Aina Kuric, introduce an income tax credit for up to two years on an experimental basis to encourage the reconditioning and repair of electrical and electronic products. The tax credit represents 25% of expenses up to EUR 250 per taxpayer per taxation year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u148	It is unfavorable: I do not think that the tax tool is the most relevant to encourage the re-use and repair of these products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u149	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u150	At the first reading of the PLF for 2021, the Senate had introduced the carry back system in a more limited proportion, since it capped the scheme at EUR 5 million and did not change the number of years carried back. Olivier Dussopt had told senators that going further would be too expensive; its comments had been confirmed by Laurent Saint-Martin, who had estimated that, capped at this level, the scheme would cost 850 million euros. We would therefore like you to explain to us both your ideological shift, on the one hand, and to inform us on the other hand how the same totally deflated and extended to three years could cost only 400 million euros today. How can we have calm debates when your speech is at this point in doubt? I would add that in the context of a deletion amendment, the rapporteur-general argued that the increase in the ceiling would be relatively little, if any, for small businesses. In order to benefit from this measure, a company must have a deficit of more than EUR 1 million, which means that it has a large turnover. It is therefore pointless to say that a total removal of the ceiling, rather than its increase to EUR 5 million as proposed by the Senate, will mainly concern large companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u151	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u152	Our group has not tabled an amendment to delete Article 1e r because we believe that the carry back scheme has a number of advantages in terms of the cash flow of companies and that its extension to three years instead of one can also be interesting. Nevertheless, we do not understand the value of the total deflation of the scheme: the ceiling of EUR 1 million already allows for the integration of many companies. By admitting that large SMEs have suffered heavy losses and that the ceiling is too low, it could have been raised rather than completely eliminated. The risk is that it is mainly the large companies that benefit from the deflation. We are therefore bored by the blurry surrounding this measure. You are deploring the scheme a little, with a wet finger, considering that it should cost about 400 million euros, but this figure is not in line with the estimates made by the rapporteur-general during the debate on the PLF for 2021, according to which the increase in the ceiling to 5 million euros would already cost 850 million euros. Logically, deploring should cost a lot more. We therefore do not want Article 1 to be deleted, but we are expressing a question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u153	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u154	Deficits can be carried forward, over future years, or backwards. In the latter case, the deferral generates a debt from the State which has to repay the IS to the company. You are now proposing that we deflate a system that had so far been capped at EUR 1 million and allow losses to be carried forward over three years instead of one. This wide opening of the carry back will result in IS claims for large companies, as indicated above, in so far as the amounts concerned are quite significant. This amounts to creating a new aid for businesses that is likely to be massive, and we ask to be precisely informed about the figures for this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u155	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 146, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u156	Our group would like this article to be deleted because, extended over three years and deplorable, the carrier back will benefit major groups without any compensation. This lack of counterpart poses a problem because tax secrecy does not allow us to know which groups will benefit from the scheme and its deflation. This may be the case for CAC40 groups, such as TotalEnergies or Société Générale, which, while recording losses in 2020, paid dividends. This is also the case of Engie, who declared 1.5 billion euros in losses in 2020 – but it is almost the amount of dividends that have been paid! It is still taxpayers who will bear the cost of this new tax pass trick. The groups I have just mentioned do not need cash aid: they have cash aid, since it is used to pay dividends! We therefore do not understand the meaning of this measure in the absence of a counterpart.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u158	He's unfavorable. I would like to recall the reasons why I consider that the deplorable carry back is necessary today, in the summer of 2021, when it was not a year ago. We adopted this scheme in the framework of PLFR 3 for 2020, almost a year ago, primarily for SMEs. At that time, we had not deliberately deplorable it so that it would remain for them as a matter of priority. But you did not escape the fact that the crisis continued and that two new confinements took place. It is through a snowball effect that some mid-sized companies (ETI) and large companies – not all – have encountered difficulties. I would point out that Article 1 makes all undertakings eligible for the deflation of carry back and that it will therefore be useful for the cash flow of all undertakings. Support for the cash flow of large companies is not a gift: it is a necessity for them to hold and for the jobs and activities of subcontractors to be maintained. Article 1 is therefore necessary. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] I would also like to point out an important detail: this is not a budgetary cost to the State but a cash cost, which is very different. It's very different for the taxpayer! This will enable all companies in France to go through the end of the economic crisis and to tackle recovery with the best weapons and investment capabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u160	It is also unfavourable, for the reasons set out by the rapporteur-general. We considered a year ago the extension of the carry back as premature, and its cost as too high, for results that we did not think were sufficient. This arrangement is more appropriate today in the wake of the crisis, which is why we proposed it. The cost – cash flow, as the rapporteur-general pointed out – is approximately EUR 400 million per year. The cost that had been mentioned in the debates on the PLF for 2021 was the overall cost, for several years, of simply raising the ceiling from EUR 1 million to EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u161	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u162	I understand that the scheme represents a cash cost to public finances, and that it is not an exemption. But what do you say about the companies eligible for the carry back, which will certainly have recorded losses but which, despite these losses, will have emptied their cash by distributing the existing profits in the form of dividends? How can they justify distributing dividends and benefiting from the measure because they have losses? We're really expanding the carry back to companies that absolutely don't need it. It is the absence of counterparties that is aberrant: these companies can nevertheless pay dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u163	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u164	The meeting was resumed. I have before me three amendments, Nos 319, 100 and 364 which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 319.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u165	This amendment tabled by Sylvia Pinel was drafted in consultation with the French Federation of Buildings. The price shock on most construction materials results in a sharp increase in the need for working capital for construction firms. The recent recovery in the cash flow of construction companies, which was achieved thanks in particular to the State-guaranteed loans (GLP) subscribed, will therefore be absorbed and then compromised by rising costs. This may also lead to a deterioration in the balance sheets. In order to limit the immediate impact on the cash flow of companies, it is proposed to extend the right to early repayment of the carrier back claim from the time of filing of the statement of profit and loss to companies whose accounts will be closed until the end of September 2021. Mobilizing the carry back would allow them to have immediate cash flow assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u166	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u167	On 4 May, I asked the Government about the impact of the increase in the cost of materials and its impact on the construction industry. Since then, Bercy's recommendation has been to freeze the late penalties, as well as the price revision for future public procurement, but these two elements are not enough to address the untenable situation of companies today for the current public procurement, as well as for the private markets of the social providers. While construction firms have recently been able to recover their cash flow, notably through the EMPs, rising commodity prices are likely to jeopardize this recovery, which could very quickly be absorbed by rising costs. This would then result in a deterioration of the balance sheets, which are burdened by work sites that are systematically carried out at a loss or without margin. In order to limit the impact of rising commodity prices on the cash flow of companies, you are proposed with this amendment to extend the right to early repayment of the carry back expenditure to companies whose accounts are closed until the end of September 2021: this would allow at least part of the increase in the cost of raw materials to be absorbed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u168	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 364.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u169	This amendment, close to those who have just been defended, aims to make it possible to carry back not only until half of 2021, i.e. until 30 June 2021, nor until 30 September as Mr Castellani and Mrs Louwagie have just asked, but until the end of 2021. The aim is to extend the right to early repayment of the carrier back claim from the date of filing of the statement of profit and loss to undertakings whose accounts will be closed until 31 December 2021. Since it is a question of closing accounts, I take the opportunity to relay a request from the accountants in my constituency. General accounts approval meetings are expected to be held within six months of the closing of the accounts, i.e. before 30 June 2021 for the accounts closed at 31 December 2020. Last year, an additional deadline had been granted – until 30 September 2020 – but this is not the case this year, when some 2020 accounts are unfortunately still not finalized and the auditors cannot issue their reports within the deadlines. Would it be possible to extend the closing date of the accounts to 30 September 2021?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u170	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u171	Although you have not indicated this, what your amendments allow is, above all, the cumulation of the advance repayment of the carrier back claim and the deflation provided for in Article 1. However, this would result in a cash lag for the State, in my opinion unreasonable, and in any event very excessive in relation to the needs. In addition to last year's third amending finance law, the deflation provided for in Article 1 is sufficient in relation to needs. I repeat, the combination of measures that you propose is excessive, both for the state's balance sheet and for the needs. I am therefore against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u173	With regard to the difficulties faced by the construction sector, particularly as a result of the rise in the cost of raw materials, I do not think that the answer can be of a fiscal nature. Other tools are envisaged and, from the beginning of next week, a sector committee will meet to provide additional responses to the sector. As far as the question of accountants is concerned, as far as we are aware, everything is going well: the exit from crisis allows general meetings to be held in satisfactory conditions. That is why we do not think it appropriate to extend the deadline. In any event, you should be aware that if a time lag of a few days or weeks was found for a particular company, the tax administration would apply the benevolence instructions given to it. I am therefore against the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u174	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 366.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u175	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for your benevolence instructions. I will share this with the accountants in my constituency who have asked me to do so. This amendment also responds to one of their requests. The aim is to open up the possibility of imputing the deficit recorded for the first deficit year closed to the declared profit of the previous financial year, or even to the fifth financial year back. Of course, the immediate advance refund of the ferry ferry k would be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u177	Unfavorable opinion. The imputation until the previous fifth financial year seems excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u178	On Amendment No 379 and on Article 1, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. We come to two amendments, Nos 379 and 318 which can be discussed together. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u179	Article 1 removes the ceiling for the carry back device, which is a potentially effective measure. The Government tells us – and repeats today – that this is a cash flow measure: it improves the cash flow of companies at the expense of the State, but the State will eventually touch on what is owed to it. For our part, we consider that this provision is not financially neutral. It amounts to lending EUR 400 million per year to businesses, which translates into a potential cost of EUR 2 billion in terms of cash flow. I will quote Gilles Carrez, former rapporteur-general, who in a February 2017 report wrote: "a loss of cash is a quantifiable cost in terms of interest rates and financing needs". This is compounded by the fact that the amount of corporate tax to be paid by businesses on a staggered basis will not be adjusted to take into account the effects of inflation. The opportunity cost is also not assessed and the risk of default of the undertakings to which the State consents these liquidity facilities is also not taken into account. Of course, evaluation is not easy to do. We cannot be sure of the figures, as we have seen with the third PLFR for 2020 and with this one. In view of these uncertainties of estimation and the potential costs of this provision, we propose a ceiling of EUR 3 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u180	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 318.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u181	This amendment by Charles de Courson provides a better framework for the arrangement of the carrier back mechanism. If this facilitation of the delay has a certain interest, temporarily, blowing up all the locks cannot be the solution. It is therefore proposed to impose a ceiling of EUR 2 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u182	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u183	Mrs Pires Beaune, you are absolutely right, if this measure does not involve a budgetary cost, it has a cash cost, as I have already taken care to stress. But if we put in place a ceiling of EUR 3 million, we should also give up the scheme put in place in Article 1e r because this would prevent the main ETIs and large companies from benefiting from it. And all the beneficial effects for the subcontractors and the positive externalities I have described would be lost. As I am referring to Article 1, I do not want this limitation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u185	The rapporteur-general's remark allows me to point out that our objective here is to help in particular the ETIs, particularly those who have suffered heavy losses as a result of the crisis, those of events, of aeronautics or those involved in the supply, supply and catering chains at airports. It is therefore important to displease. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u186	I put to the vote Amendment No 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u187	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 6 Against 44
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u188	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 441.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u189	It aims to enable all companies hard hit by the health crisis to obtain early repayment of their carrier back claims. We propose to renew this measure in 2021, which demonstrated its effectiveness in 2008 and 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u191	Disadvantaged, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u193	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u194	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u195	Of course, PLFR 3 allowed early repayment but within a ceiling of EUR 1 million. The cumulation of displeasing and repayment could, I fear, cause some inconvenience to Bercy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u196	The President of the Committee on Finance has the floor to support Amendment No. 415.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u197	There is not just the carry back in article 1; The Government is a bit of a fool in its way of doing things. Its final paragraphs provide that certain aid from the Solidarity Fund will no longer be exempt from tax and social charges, whereas tax and social neutralisation had been the rule until then. This will be the case for aid linked to the compensation of fixed costs, difficulties in the disposal of stocks and ski lifts, which will make a difference. It's not nothing! If the Government is planning an exit from the whistle, it would have to say so that we can have a debate on it. I propose to allow the tax and social neutralisation of all solidarity fund aid to continue. If companies benefit from it, it is that, as a matter of principle, they need to be supported. This exemption must be clear and simple. In any case, you cannot introduce such a change by trying to pass it mysteriously under the radar in favour of an article centered around another device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u199	State aid is considered to be products and subject as such to taxation. The European Commission has endorsed the exemption of only some aid. In absolute terms, I would not be against your proposal, but it does not fit into the state aid architecture at European level. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal or an unfavorable opinion. I invite you to ask the Government for details on how the European Commission considers state aid linked to the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u201	A few words to try to reassure the chairman of the commission and to show him, if necessary, that the Government and I do not behave like a fool. When we took the tax exemption from solidarity fund aid with you, it amounted to EUR 1500 per month and mainly concerned companies with less than 10 employees. Whatever the amounts, the Solidarity Fund remains completely tax-free. On the other hand, sectoral or special aid, particularly aid for fixed costs, is subject to taxation. Our objective is twofold: to maintain the tax exemption for the solidarity fund as such and to subject to tax, as is the traditional case, special arrangements, especially when they represent very large sums. We must have in mind the rapporteur's argument on European constraints, but also the fact that these "fixed costs" aids are, in the vast majority of cases, paid to companies which will not make profits, since we have had to accompany them. The risk that the President pointed out in his argument is not, in our view, proven. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u202	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u203	There are no differences in the nature of the solidarity fund's aid! These are support – and there were not only the EUR 1500, but also the EUR 10000 or 20% of turnover up to EUR 200000 – paid to companies in urgent need and most of them do not make profits. I understand, Mr rapporteur-general, that the payment of State aid must be compatible with Community rules, but I am not sure that the Government asked the Commission whether the aid in question could also be regarded as State aid which could be exempted. That is a point to be clarified. There is no reason to make differences: either there is a solidarity fund or there is none.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u204	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u205	This neutralization requested by President Woerth is a measure of justice. I do not see why some aids would benefit from tax and social exemptions and not others. Companies and our fellow citizens find it difficult to understand. You say, Minister Delegate, that the question does not arise since few companies will have taxable results for this year, given the situation. The reality is that some companies will be able to produce results and, in any case, any deficits will be carried over to the results of the coming years. For reasons of tax and social justice, it seems to us very important that all aid be treated equally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u206	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u207	Mrs Louwagie, this measure also responds to a need for clarification. The aid ceiling has been raised temporarily, but it must be borne in mind that the exemption is considered to be an aid and is therefore part of the calculation of the ceiling for aid to the undertaking and therefore decreases it accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u208	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 50 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u210	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u211	This amendment concerns the tax credit for certain investments made and operated in Corsica (CIIC), an effective tax mechanism to support both business creation and employment, although, I would like to make it clear, it would be useful to better supervise it. The aim is to include the investments made by the open-air hotel industry – the campsites, to be clear – in this scheme, which is currently reserved, according to the current interpretation, only for traditional hotel establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u213	It seems to me that the list of equipment eligible for the CIIC is mentioned in the general tax code and that it includes real estate investment. The exclusion of campsites is therefore done in the silence of the law. I will ask you to withdraw your amendment, which I believe is satisfied with the current state of law. If you find that the Directorate-General for Public Finance does not make it a favourable interpretation, perhaps a change in the doctrine would be necessary. The Government will perhaps provide us with further details in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u215	It will also be a request for withdrawal. I would add that on the occasion of a question to the Government of Senator Panunzi a few days ago, I indicated that the Official Bulletin of Public Finance will clarify the doctrine in this area in the coming weeks, so that the law – which already satisfies your amendment – will be applied in a consistent manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u216	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u217	This demand is very strong in Corsica but I take note of the promise you have just made and I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u218	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u219	Companies located in one of the priority development areas – such as Corsica – must continue to benefit from the right to deduct the part of deferred depreciation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u221	You propose by your amendment not to change the law but not to be punished when it is not applied! The opposite should be the case: the amendments are used to propose amendments to the law and not to seek the absence of sanctions when it is violated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u223	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u224	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u225	You know that things aren't that simple. The aim is to adapt to specific local conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u226	I have before me two amendments, Nos 348 and 427, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 348.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u227	The purpose of this amendment is to supplement Article 39b of the General Tax Code so that the company retains the right to deduct the portion of depreciation that would have been deferred as a result of a period of non-activity or decrease in activity between 17 March 2020 and 31 December 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u228	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 427.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u229	This is an amendment that I tabled in previous PLFRs, but I will come back to it because it is of real interest. Recall the rule: currently, when a company decides not to account for its depreciation or to change its depreciation plan, it can no longer deduct it when it accounts for it; This is called irregularly delayed depreciation. I propose to amend the Act to allow companies, temporarily, for a period from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022, to amend their amortization plan and to account for any depreciation that relates to the period mentioned above. The advantage is that these companies would not be penalized by less or even negative results. This would allow them to have better equity and thus obtain financial quotations and use credit, including all factoring credits, short-term loans, etc. This would also have an impact on how suppliers assess the financial health of companies. This is a strong measure towards enterprises, but it does not represent a significant cost to the State. On the other hand, the equipment and infrastructure of enterprises have been underutilized over this period and this provision would make it possible to better fit into reality. This is an important subject – albeit a little technical – that we must take into account. It is not a question of not respecting the law, the rapporteur-general, but of amending it for the period concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u231	I grant you that you are proposing an amendment to the law! The problem, as we already mentioned in 2020, and you agreed, is that it is a very good accounting amendment, but it has tax consequences. If adopted, this would mean that the net result, the accounting result, would be driven for tax purposes, which cannot be accepted. This is the whole difficulty of your amendment, and we have already discussed it, and that is why I remain unfavorable: it is, I repeat, having considerable side effects. Even though I have no doubt about your sincerity, quite the contrary – I know that you are targeting mainly deficit SMEs and those that this measure could really help in this particular period – your amendment would by definition apply to all cases and would create an unacceptable corporate tax steering tool. Companies should be supported differently in terms of depreciation; Perhaps we should work more with the Banque de France, which notes and quotes companies in relation to their depreciation as well. That a specific look be taken at debt and depreciation, due to the crisis caused by the covid-19, seems to me a very good idea not to penalise companies, but that must remain in the order of accounting, without affecting taxation; Otherwise, it would be a dangerous and complex exercise to control. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u232	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u233	That will be the same, for the same reasons. I would add, in response to what the rapporteur has said, that we have had discussions with the Accounting Standards Authority (ACN) and that accounting flexibilities and benevolence measures have been foreseen to take account of this lack of mobilisation of depreciation during the period of covid-19. Changing the texts to respond to this request would cause too much on-board effects and we prefer to stay with the flexibilities I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u234	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u235	I support Mrs Louwagie's amendment since last year's finance laws, because this provision responds to a real demand from companies that have not used productive equipment as well as in normal times and are likely to see their equity and deficit increase, with capital reduction implications. We must accompany tax companies who make accounting carry-over decisions. I would remind you that this amendment provides for a time-limited arrangement; This can be perfectly understood at this time of crisis. You know that I am not in favour of a seasonal pilotage of the tax result; However, this provision is very limited in time. We have just adopted a transport back measure: this is proof that you yourself are giving quite considerable flexibility in the area of IS. This mechanism is consistent with the reality of productive investment in this period of pandemic in France. That's why I support him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u236	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u237	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u238	I will support this amendment personally. I do not fully agree with the rapporteur-general on fiscal pilotage, since this amendment simply proposes a delay in time. Perhaps we could play on the change in IS rates? These are rather administrative doctrines in terms of depreciation periods than principles enshrined in the law. Many measures – derogatory depreciation, etc. – exist in this field, which are well known by practitioners. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] On the other hand, the provision proposed here is important for the equity of companies and for their balance sheet presentation – as Véronique Louwagie said. It is a pity that we are making the impression that we want to do fiscal pilotage – of what I understand – that is not at all the objective of our colleague Véronique Louwagie's amendment. It is rather a question of presentation of the balance sheet at a time when companies will need a good rating of the Banque de France vis-à-vis bankers. This is an amendment of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u240	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u241	Deputy Minister, you said that there were flexibilities at the accounting level; I'll give it to you. However, the fact remains that companies are penalized, because these flexibilities do not allow them to deduct their amortizations taxly afterwards. So you're penalizing them precisely when they have big needs. Secondly, you point out, Mr rapporteur-general, that it would be dangerous to give companies the opportunity to manage these depreciations as they wish, since this would have an effect on how they can manage profit and deficit. In this case, sub-amend to limit this possibility to companies that are in deficit or with negative equity! It could be a solution. Last point: I think you should take into consideration this suggestion, which is defended on all benches – to the left, to the centre and to the right. This is proof that this is an important issue; There's an expectation from the companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u242	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 454.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u243	We have accompanied businesses during the crisis and will continue to do so. But we must also support investors, who need serenity and visibility. This amendment therefore proposes to increase the possibility of reinvestment from two to three years by 60% of the proceeds of the divestiture of a company.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u245	I share your willingness to encourage reinvestment as much as possible; We have been sharing this fight for several years. However, we have been working for some time with Jean-Noël Barrot on this issue of contribution-cession. The current two-year deadline seems satisfactory to me and I am not sure that it is necessary to extend it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u246	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 353.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u247	This is an amendment to clarify that donations in kind made by professionals engaged in an agricultural activity as defined in Article L. 311-1 of the Rural and Maritime Code do not count for the determination of the total net income of the undertaking. Before the health crisis, the president of the Restos du coeur called for all these sectors – meats, eggs, vegetables, cereals... – to benefit from an incentive tax system, because the social situation that has been deteriorating for several years. Since then, the use of food aid has increased as a result of the health crisis, with over 2.1 million people, 70 per cent of whom were women, benefiting in February 2021. For this reason, the benefits of the so-called Coluche Act, which is a provision of the 1989 Finance Act, enshrined in article 238 bis of the General Tax Code, should be extended to grants in kind made by agricultural professionals, which creates an additional tax deduction for certain charitable and humanitarian associations defined as "aid agencies for persons in difficulty". It seems to me important to extend this scheme to donations in kind made by agricultural professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u249	We had this discussion last summer. I would remind you that this is already possible; your amendment is satisfied. Individuals benefit from the tax reduction for donations, and businesses benefit from the tax reduction for sponsorship. Whatever your tax status, you can therefore benefit from the tax advantage in the case of food donations you refer to. It'll be a withdrawal request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u250	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u251	With this amendment, we want to abolish the research tax credit (IRC), which represents 6.6 billion tax expenditures, i.e. now the first item of tax expenditure. For a company like Sanofi, it is thus a billion tax gifts that were granted for ten years, with as a result 1000 dismissals in France, including 400 researchers. Not to mention the distribution of 4.8 billion euros of dividends! You measure all the ineffectiveness of this device, which has also had no vaccine results, for example. Moreover, it is far away, the time when the research tax credit was supposed to help SMEs: fifty large groups alone capture half of the CIR, with results identical to those of Sanofi I quoted. This tax niche seems far too costly in terms of its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u253	I remind you once again, Mrs Rubin, that more than 20,000 companies benefit from the research tax credit; In the vast majority, they are TPEs and SMEs. Clearly, the research tax credit contributes to the attractiveness of France. Like you, I believe that we need to better identify the beneficiaries and study how they are re-employed. We are conducting this work with Christine Pires Beaune and Francis Chouat, and we will report on it in a month's time during the annual report on tax law enforcement. However, under no circumstances should the IRC be deleted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u255	It is also unfavourable. For the second consecutive year, France is the first euro area country in terms of the attractiveness of foreign investment ; The research tax credit is for a lot. With each finance bill, you propose to delete it... "Litania, liturgy, lethargy": this formula of Edgar Faure comes to mind when I hear about taxation in these terms!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u256	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u257	I do not dispute that the tax credit is being tainted by a few slips, or that there are a few illegal passengers, but I would like to point out that this tax relief is very useful for many small entities conducting major research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u258	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u259	Let us stop calling into question the research tax credit at all times: this system is indispensable, together with others, to the attractiveness of France. If France still has researchers and high-quality industrial research, it is probably thanks to it; Of course, they must not be weakened. Perhaps some aspects of the margin-based tax credit can be improved: the best measure would be to expand the scope of the tax credit, rather than abolish it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u260	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u261	It is true that, in tax matters, we are obliged to re-publish – I grant it to you! As far as lethargy is concerned, I would like to return to you, Minister Delegate: as a reminder, the former rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance has tried to reform this fiscal niche, so that the threshold of EUR 100 million is no longer appreciated at the group level, but by subsidiaries. The current system allows tax evasion: some groups divide their research expenditure. You have opposed such an evolution. We study, we study again, we multiply commissions... isn't that lethargy? I have no doubt about the interest of the research tax credit for SMEs; They represent 80% of the jobs covered by the scheme. So I'm sending back your accusation of lethargy: when we talk about the research tax credit, it's also to reform it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u262	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u263	Proposed by Paul-André Colombani, as he did in previous years, it aims to strengthen incentives to invest in small hydraulics in non-interconnected areas, in order to reduce production costs more efficiently and quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u264	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u265	Beyond the risks that your amendment would entail in terms of breaking equality and competition, I do not wish us to enter into general considerations in this PLFR; Let us stick to the fiscal support provisions for the crisis and the economic recovery measures. In the same spirit, I will deliver opinions in favour of proposals for budgetary appropriations that could support the post-crisis phase, but not structural reforms. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u266	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 233.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u267	It has the same objective as the previous amendment. Note that the provision we are proposing would help to support investment and renewable energy production, which is far from negligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u268	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendments Nos 59 and 60, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u269	Amendment No 59 is intended to ease the imputation ceiling for the forward carry-over of deficits where the company's equity is negative. As for Amendment No 60, he proposed that this ceiling should be relaxed up to the capital gains generated by the revaluation operations which had been found at the end of a financial year ended 31 December 2020, until 31 December 2022. In this way, we would support the cash flow of companies in a difficult time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u270	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u271	He's unfavorable. The forward deferral scheme is already quite generous: it can reach an amount equal to 1 million euros, plus 50% of the fraction of the profit exceeding this threshold. However, being unlimited in time, and given its ceiling, it would not solve the current difficulties – you will agree. On the other hand, the measure provided for in Article 1e r will have a faster effect on the cash flow of companies facing the crisis. I am therefore opposed to the deflation of the carry forward, as it would not meet the cash flow needs of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u272	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u273	As long as you do not change your logic, we will always propose the same amendments! They seem to us all the more opportune because they would make it possible to recover particularly necessary revenues in this period of crisis and deficit in the public accounts. The purpose of this amendment is to tax multinationals to the extent of their actual profit in France, as proposed by the Association pour la taxation des transactions financiers et pour l'action citoyenne (ATTAC) and the economist Gabriel Zucman. The diversion of public revenues is estimated to be between €80 billion and €118 billion per year in France – this is not nothing for public accounts! The fight against massive tax evasion is absolutely necessary in the present period. Despite your communication – you don't take it away! – your policy is quite ineffective and its effects very marginal. We have solutions, such as the taxation of actual profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u274	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u275	On such complex issues, Mrs Rubin, concrete solutions are decided in a concerted and multilateral way. The G7 finances have made an absolutely considerable step forward – I have not heard you salute it: for the first time, at the initiative of the President of the Republic and the Minister of the Economy, a minimum global tax will be applied to companies. We must measure the revolution that this represents, particularly with regard to the digital giants, which we so often talk about in the Chamber. The minimum tax rate of 15% is a major step forward, and we do not hope it will rise – in this area, we could join, Mrs Rubin. Since you are talking about solutions and concrete actions, here is one, decided on a multilateral scale; We have to greet her together. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u277	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u278	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u279	I will not welcome such a timid move, and I note above all that the tax rate has fallen from 21% to 15%. No, this is not a major step forward, even if it is presented as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u280	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u281	The average tax burden on digital companies is heavy on tax evasion: applying a 15% tax rate to them is a very minor step forward. You yourself speak of a minimum tax: indeed, it is the minimum!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u282	I have before me many identical amendments Nos 6, 7, 17, 48, 54, 93, 108, 119, 133, 150, 163, 222, 226, 240, 338, 357, 373 and 476. Amendments Nos 6 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 7 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 17 by Mr Dino Cinieri are being defended. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u283	The purpose of this amendment by Émilie Bonnivard is to allow agricultural enterprises to benefit from the precautionary savings deduction (EPD), even if they have chosen to fall under the corporate tax system. It is known that a large number of companies are moving towards corporate models, and that assembly is becoming increasingly complex, especially because of the difficulties of transmission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u284	Amendments Nos 54 by Mr Jacques Cattin, 93 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, 108 by Mrs Marine Brenier, 119 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier, 133 by Mr Martial Saddier and 150 by Mr Vincent Rolland are being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u285	While the 2019 Finance Act provides for a more flexible precautionary savings deduction scheme, it is reserved for businesses subject to income tax in the category of agricultural profits, under a real tax regime, and therefore excludes those that have chosen to tax on corporations. Yet they are equally subject to climatic and other hazards. This amendment proposes to extend the benefit of the DEP to enterprises which have a very dominant agricultural activity – more than 90% of their overall turnover – and which are subject to corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u286	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u287	The 2019 Finance Act has introduced a new system of deduction for precautionary savings, which is more flexible and more efficient than the previous system. However, it excludes agricultural businesses that have chosen the corporate tax system. The purpose of this amendment is to extend the benefit of this deduction to enterprises engaged in farming and having chosen the system of corporate taxation: they are also exposed to climatic and economic hazards, and need to set up precautionary reserves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u288	Amendments Nos 226 by Mr Paul-André Colombani and 240 by Mr Mohamed Laqhila are defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u289	I'll be brief, because it's the same as the previous ones. For several years, the Government has been encouraging agricultural businesses to choose corporate taxation. However, this incentive is contrary to the impossibility for companies which have chosen this scheme to use the DEP scheme. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to extend the benefit of the DEP to companies which have a very dominant agricultural activity. After the episode of black frost suffered by farmers, and especially the wine growers, it would be appropriate to open this mechanism to them. We'd send them a strong signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u290	Amendments Nos 357 by Mr Fabrice Brun, 373 by Mr François Cormier-Boulingeon and 476 by Mr Julien Aubert are defended. The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u291	We have had this debate many times. An extension of the DEP to corporate tax companies is not justified. While some have opted for income tax and others for corporate tax, it is based on their interests, given their own reality, their business and the personal circumstances of their leader. Both schemes have advantages as well as disadvantages. Therefore, the extension you propose would be cheese and dessert! The device must remain as it is. Moreover, if these amendments were adopted, the income tax would no longer be of interest to farmers. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u293	We have this debate every time we examine a budget text, and the position of the Government is unchanged. We share the rapporteur-general's arguments and deliver an unfavourable opinion. I will have the opportunity to move forward with you earlier, thanks to Amendment No 486 by Mr Jerretie and the accompanying sub-amendment by Mrs Verdier-Jouclas, to ensure that the hazard deduction – the CCA, to be distinguished from the DEP – introduced last year are extended and provide one-off assistance. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u294	Amendment No 396 corrected by Mr Stéphane Peu is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u295	Amendment No 76 by Mrs Typhanie Degois is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u296	I have before me four amendments, Nos 58, 377, 460 and 483 corrected, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 460 and 483, as corrected, are identical. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u297	If you will allow me, Mr President, I will also defend Amendment No 377 because they have the same spirit. When a company changes its business significantly, it must apply for ministerial approval in order to defer deficits that would have been incurred prior to the change of business. However, in a number of cases, particularly as a result of the crisis, we are calling on companies to change their business, to adapt, to change to take account of new technologies, different consumption patterns and changes in production patterns. However, the system of approval is cumbersome for companies. Amendment No 58 is therefore intended to allow companies in the first three financial years ended on 31 December 2020, i.e. 2021, 2022 and 2023, not to apply for approval. Amendment No 377 restricts the provision to financial years 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u298	Amendment No 460 by Mr Eric Woerth is being defended. Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 483 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u299	It's a little in the same spirit as Mrs. Louwagie's. A structure subject to IS is a kind of ball, with its own taxation. The change in activity does not create a boon effect. In any case, if you have to liquidate or distribute, the tax will take place at one time or another. It's paradoxical: I'm changing my business, and it's necessary, but I won't get any future benefits. Maybe you'll tell me that there could be a market that would look for deficit companies. But the amendment is very much in keeping with the fact that it excludes the case of the transfer of control of undertakings. This provision is a necessity, given the current crisis. Prior approval really is a heaviness. Perhaps Bercy's services are not sufficiently sized to manage the accreditation files because the deadline is far too long and does not correspond to the real life, the economy, the need to bounce quickly and make the necessary choices in the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u301	I am always aware of the simplification measures, that is to say, what is in line with the ESSOC law that we voted together at the beginning of the legislature. I have looked closely at these approvals: management is already deconcentrated. It is the departmental branches of public finance – DDFIP – that review the files, with DGFIP dealing only with those with transferred deficits exceeding EUR 10 million or with particular difficulties. I am not sure that we are here in the typical example of bureaucratic heaviness. I give an unfavorable opinion, because we are talking about a transfer of deficit, which is not totally neutral. We need control – trust does not rule out control, as we have said many times during the review of the ESSOC law. I have not been told of any brakes related to the approval itself, especially since the device was deconcentrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u303	Same opinion. I would add that the nature of the subject means that we are committed to prior approval. If there are particular difficulties, we are obviously ready to examine them. But at this point we have not been told of any particular heaviness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u304	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 380.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u305	This amendment is the adoption of an amendment tabled by our colleague, Émilie Cariou, who had to join a committee meeting. It aims to increase the rate of the tax on the excess reserves of insurance companies, as the current context may sometimes lead them to "over-provision". The aim is to combat the potential windfall effects for insurance companies and to regulate their behaviour in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u307	This is a return to discussion about the role of the insurance sector during the crisis... We are unanimous in saying that it was generally disappointing, especially in the first few months: we could expect much more support from the insurance companies, particularly towards the restaurateurs; On the contrary, they have often received amendments indicating that the conditions for covering risks would be more limited. I have always said that the response to this crisis is not fiscal, but that the sector should be strongly encouraged to support the financing of this crisis. This has been done in several ways: participation in the solidarity fund, investments in funds enabling companies to strengthen their own funds, commercial discounts. As soon as yesterday, a large French group made an important gesture of 300 million euros in the direction of 15,000 restaurateurs. Nevertheless, this goes in the right direction, even we can agree that, since the beginning of the crisis, the response has not been entirely up to date. However, the tax response you are proposing does not seem appropriate to me. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u309	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u310	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u311	The insurance sector has been heavily criticized. We have received it in committee several times, and he has said a lot. Efforts have been made and I would like to commend the action, or initiative, of the Axa company in the direction of the restaurateurs. We are talking about thousands of customers, 300 million euros, in addition to the hundreds of millions that have been made by other insurance companies. We can see the glass half full! In any case, this initiative of the Axa company can be welcomed because it was not obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u312	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u313	Indeed, we can see the glass half full, as the chairman of the committee does, but for my part I am looking at the glass half empty. I want to talk about another behavior that we have not addressed at all. I have been told, on two occasions, in very simple cases, that insurance is waiting as long as possible to compensate the citizens. I find this attitude deplorable. When we know the outcome of the case, why keep waiting and penalizing? Failure to pay this money to individuals also penalizes the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u314	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 393.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u315	You have noticed that the GDR Group does not propose to remove the research tax credit which proves to have a positive impact on SMEs, which was confirmed in a recent report by France Strategy. On the other hand, we believe – but this is not necessarily the time to do so – that the research tax credit needs to be fundamentally modified to better target SMEs and to add employment conditions to them. Today, the fifty largest companies receive 50% of the research tax credit. Sanofi, whose case has, however, greatly disturbed public opinion, is the largest collector of the research tax credit while it has closed seven research centres and plans to close others in the coming months. We therefore propose to limit the research tax credit to EUR 16 million to better target it towards SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u317	Without opening the debate on the CIR, I mean that we do not fully agree on the ceilings to be set. I understand the temptation to consider that large groups benefiting from the CIR can effectively eliminate jobs – it is an economic reality – but do not underestimate the power of the R & D centres of large companies through the CIR. I assure you that if the IRC were removed or replenished, there would be a great risk of our research and development centres leaving in other countries. In the aftermath of a crisis, it is really a risk that we do not want to take. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u318	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 307.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u319	It aims to strengthen the strong momentum of ICIC. Corsica is known to be one of the territories most affected by the crisis, with economic activity falling by at least 35%, which is enormous. The tourism sector has obviously been particularly affected. The purpose of this amendment is to increase the rates applicable to ICIC in order to provide a strong response to the challenges and the context we face in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u321	This tax credit, which was already amended in 2020, is now well calibrated. I propose not to change the rates of any tax niche in this PLFR. I would like to point out that the CIIC is fully compatible with other tax expenditures, particularly for innovative companies, the innovation tax credit – C2I – the IRC and the innovative start-up scheme. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u323	The Government will oppose any changes to the tax credits. It is therefore against this amendment and against the following amendments, Nos 306, 304, 164, 230 and 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u324	[[Smile]] Thank you, Minister, for having already given your opinion on the following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u325	Mr Michel Castellani, you have the floor to support Amendment No 306 to which you already know that the Government is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u326	The rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate have enormous difficulties in understanding that we do not ask for alms but that we live in very special geographical, social and historical conditions. It is very difficult to support a business when you are on an island at least 160 kilometres from the driving economic centres. The aim of Amendment No 306 is not to exclude from the benefit of the CIIC those establishments which could be described as "small tourist residences", which are of a low capacity aparthotel type. Since the latter cannot justify a capacity of 50 beds to be recognised under the Tourism Code as "tourism residences" and thus benefit from the tax credit as an establishment, they are excluded from the scheme when they are genuine professionals who have created activity and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u328	I am so aware of the difficulties of developing economic activity in Corsica that in Article 46 of the third amending finance law of 2020 I had given a favourable opinion so that the tax expenditure would be even more beneficial at the time of the rebound. I think we have done so at a satisfactory level. I am therefore against all your proposals and the increase in the rates you are submitting to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u329	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u330	The current provisions of Article 244c E do not include the transport sector, we ask that the ICIC be open to transport undertakings. Indeed, Corsican carriers suffer from unequal situations compared to their continental counterparts because of all the extra costs that can easily be imagined. Extending the ICIC to the transport sector would immediately help those companies that are increasingly weakened, like others, by the crisis and, above all, to establish fairer conditions of competition between Corsican carriers and their continental counterparts, not only French but also European.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u331	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u332	It's the same logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u333	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 230 and 229, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u334	Our colleague Colombani proposes to increase the CIIC to 40% for companies with fewer than 11 employees and a turnover of not more than 2 million. This is a recurring debate; We'll probably take it back very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u335	I call Mr Jerretie to support Amendment No. 486.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u336	We have already mentioned this in the Finance Committee and then in the sitting earlier. You told us, Minister Delegate, that you were sensitive to our proposal, supported by my colleague Marie Verdier-Jouclas, to extend until December 31 the system that allows operators to mobilize the savings created under the CCA regime. I believe that extending this support is in the right direction and that even with the 350 million payment appropriations for farmers, the amount is not unsustainable for the state budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u337	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 512.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u338	My colleagues in the wine, vine and oenology study group and I had tabled an amendment along the same lines, but we prefer to support the amendment by my colleague Christophe Jerretie, which is much better drafted. As he has just explained, this is simply a relaxation: we are extending this CCA regime by one year. When we put in place the precautionary savings scheme, it was precisely to enable all farmers to mobilise this savings to cope with hazards, whether climatic or economic. This extension of CCA appears to us to be particularly important after the freezing episode. My sub-amendment simply aims to clarify the dates of application of the device to make it more operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u340	In fact, we had envisaged in committee a relaxation of the CCA criteria that we had defined in 2020 with regard to economic hazards – 'the episode of the freeze is offset by budgetary measures. The opinion is therefore in favour of this amendment, subject to the adoption of the clarifications made by Mrs Verdier-Jouclas' sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u342	As I said earlier, I am in favour of Mr Jerretie's amendment and Mrs Verdier Jouclas's specific sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u343	I have before me many amendments, Nos 74, 8, 9, 18, 36 corrected, 50, 55, 94, 120, 134, 152, 165, 223, 227, 241, 343, 358, 374, 477 and 412, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 8, 9, 18, 36 corrected, 50, 55, 94, 120, 134, 152, 165, 223, 227, 241, 343, 358.374 and 477 are identical. Amendment No 74 by Mrs Typhanie Degois is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u344	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u345	I welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by our colleague Jerretie, since this series of amendments goes in the same direction: it is a question of allowing farmers to use the DPA under the DEP regime to deal with economic hazards throughout the year 2021. I therefore withdraw this amendment, which was satisfied with the adoption of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u346	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 361.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u347	Over the past year and a half, the management of the health crisis has forced a large number of companies to discontinue their activities during the various periods of confinement. It would be welcome to support these companies by exempting them from the payment of social contributions and direct taxes if they suffered a turnover loss of at least 70 % during the period from 1 March 2020 to 19 May 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u349	I am always in favour of accompanying companies in this period, but it seems to me a little excessive to exempt them from the payment of all the contributions that have been deferred, as you propose in your amendment. It seems to me that this can only be done on a case-by-case basis and not by a general measure, especially since we have already cancelled sector-by-sector charges under PLFR 3 last year. I think the scope of your amendment is too broad: I think that we must first look at the carry-over of contributions before deciding on the additional exemptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u351	That's an unfavorable opinion. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that, on a proposal from the Government, Parliament had decided to postpone the payment of almost 30 billion euros of contributions and that just under 10 billion contributions were cancelled: 18 billion euros remain of contributions due from companies that have benefited from carry-overs – 11.5 billion for companies and 6.5 billion for the self-employed. Since March, clearance plans have been sent to companies that have not experienced the inconveniences of the crisis, starting with the least exposed sectors. These clearance plans, which range in duration from 12 to 36 months, are accepted in 92% of cases and are discussed in the other cases, the proportion of companies claiming to be unable to pay despite these adjustments being infinite. From 1 July, we will begin to address clearance plans to the self-employed, starting in the same way with those whose activity has been least affected by the crisis. We want to take our time: we will give the S1 and S1 bis independents time to replenish their cash before considering these discharges – we have not determined from what date and how we will send them these clearance plans. I have asked the USSRAFs that the payment of any social debt of an independent person exceeding 1000 euros be spread over at least 24 months and I have indicated – and I believe that this is a step forward for many of them – that we are integrating pre-covid debt into a clean-up debt, which will allow the self-employed who had encountered difficulties before the pandemic to benefit from a clean-up and spread of their debt. These methods of cleansing are, I believe, very reasonable and appreciated. The exemptions represent almost a third of the total carry-overs and the PLFR that I present today compensates for these social security exemptions. I am against this amendment, but I wanted to stress how much we care about this cleanliness and its modalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u352	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u353	I would like to take this opportunity, Mr Minister Delegate, to point out that the timetable for the postponement of social contributions – which you have sent to companies and which will be addressed to the self-employed according to the same procedure, as you have just indicated – is communicated to companies via their personal space on the website of the USSRAF, not by mail, postal or electronic. However, many companies, especially the smaller ones, do not systematically consult the information contained in their personal space, and only in June did they become aware of the levies which had been made by the USSRAF in accordance with this timetable. There is a real difficulty here, real malfunctions. I think they should be better informed and reminded that this timetable is on their personal space.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u354	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u355	When a company does not respond to messages sent to the personal space, a system of mailing and telephone counter-calls is provided to prevent it from missing this information. We will do the same for the independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u356	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u357	This is an amendment of withdrawal since the scope of Amendment No 361 has been considered too broad: it may satisfy you more. The objective remains to reduce the burdens that continued to be placed on businesses during the health crisis, especially those in sectors that suffered more from the crisis than others – and this is not over. I am thinking in particular of the whole tourism sector, the travel agencies that keep alerting us about the very difficult situations that some of them are experiencing. They are certainly not the only ones: there are also sports halls, for example. But while the activity of the sports halls has restarted, the situation remains very complicated for travel agencies, even if they can resume their activity: it remains very difficult to go abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u358	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 376.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u359	The regions, the agglomerations or some municipalities have paid aid to enterprises in addition to the national solidarity fund. If it has been said that these aids should not be imposed, nothing has been engraved in the marble. Here I propose to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u360	Amendment No 480 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u361	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 341, 369 and 473. Amendment No 341 by Mrs Lise Magnier is being defended. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 369.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u362	It tends to take over the criteria for modulation of the premium amount as foreseen in April 2020, in particular according to the degree of exposure to the virus. We welcome the reintroduction of the premium under these conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u363	Amendment No 473 by Mr Mohamed Laqhila is being defended. The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u364	This amendment was adopted by the committee this morning at its meeting under Rule 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u365	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u366	Unfavorable opinion. The Government will, however, have the opportunity to issue a wisdom opinion on other amendments that provide for adjustments and adaptations to the exceptional business bonus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u367	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-11-O1301.u368	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2021. The meeting is adjourned.
