ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u1	The next item is the debate, after the expedited procedure has begun, on the bill, adopted by the Senate, ratifying the orders of 20 January 2021 and 27 January 2021 on reform of the formation of local elected representatives (No. 4073, 4214).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u2	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u3	Our country has about 510,000 local elected officials. It is, as you know, a French singularity, ladies and gentlemen. It is also, I believe, a real wealth because these men and women are the faces of the Republic as close as possible to our fellow citizens, in the communes as in the intercommunities, in the departments and in the regions. We all know here what personal commitment is needed to ensure this mission, which many volunteer, and what also needs to be demanded in the face of the growing technicality of public action. Whether they are elected from our cities, from our countryside or from our ultramarine territories, whether they have an executive mandate or not, whether they are elected by the majority or by the opposition, they are all entitled to a formation. It is an essential condition for the proper functioning of our democratic life that we guarantee our elected representatives access to a course of training of quality and freely chosen. This is the reason for the specific system set up, which has two objectives: firstly, to meet the special needs which elected representatives are confronted with in the exercise of their mandate, such as the control of budgetary rules, public procurement law or urban planning, and also to enable them, if they so wish, to take part in a process of professional development at the end of their mandate. We have a duty to make this right to training effective because too many dysfunctions exist and the system is weakened. At the end of 2019, the Parliament empowered the Government, in the law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, presented by Minister Sébastien Lecornu, to legislate by order on this subject. It is you, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, who followed this text and who are now careful to ensure the continuity of the work then undertaken. We have since conducted an important consultation with elected associations and training organizations. This text is also the result of the work undertaken by the Senate, which, in seeking a fair compromise, has strengthened the guarantees provided to elected officials while preserving the effectiveness of the new arrangements. We have before us today a text which, in order to be balanced, is nonetheless ambitious, and I believe, in view of the work it has carried out last week, that your Committee on Laws shares this analysis, which I thank her for. First of all, let me recall the characteristics of the current system and its main limitations. First, training organizations must have ministerial approval to train elected officials. This approval, I must admit, has not always prevented drifts in the sector. Secondly, the training of elected officials is financed by two complementary schemes: one has existed since 1992 and provides for the obligation for the municipalities to provide a training budget for their elected representatives equal to at least 2% of the allowances for a total amount of at least EUR 34 million, but it must be noted that small municipalities sometimes do not have the resources to meet the demands and that there is also some reluctance to devote resources to training; the other one exists since 2019, namely the individual right to the formation of elected officials (DIFE), from which all elected officials benefit and have 20 hours of training per year, this right being financed by a contribution of 1% of the allowances paid to elected officials, which represents about 16 million euros, but it is necessary to recognize a number of shortcomings – high prices, small number of elected officials trained, concentration of expenditure on a few bodies and very large deficit of the system. The reform that I am presenting to you aims at responding to these malfunctions. The first point is that the order of 20 January 2021 reinforces the funding arrangements of the communities because the Government knows that they are very attached to them. Thus, in order to meet the needs of small municipalities, self-taxing intercommunality will now be able to contribute to the training of municipal councillors. The elected representative will also be able to easily combine the two mechanisms – financing by his community and his DIFE. I would like to say to you that I will make the necessary efforts not only to pedagogy but also to remind you of the obligations, together with the associations of elected representatives and the prefects, to ensure that the communities assume their responsibilities in this regard. The second point is that the above-mentioned order perpetuates the DIFE while softening its operating procedures. Indeed, we need to get out of an hourly fee system that has led to the drift of training prices and, indeed, to concentrate spending on a small number of elected officials. It is therefore planned to provide each elected official with an annual envelope in euros, which will allow him to choose the best value for money, having access to an overall vision of the offer thanks to the integration of DIFE in the platform moncompteformation.gouv.fr, which already deals with the personal training account. The platform is managed by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations (CDC), whose commitment to this reform I would like to welcome here. In the case of vocational rehabilitation training, the elected official will be able to easily accumulate the rights obtained before his or her election and those acquired during his or her term of office. This reform is a rescue operation of the DIFE, whose financing fund is on the verge of the cessation of payment after two years of deficit: the order allows the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to make an advance of funds to the DIFE in order to cope with the exhaustion of the cash flow. The financial balance will be guaranteed in the medium term, in particular by the modulation of the contribution rate of the envelope granted to the elected representatives and by the price cap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u4	It's easier than with retreats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u5	I stress the essential role of the National Council for the Formation of Local Electors (CNFEL), which the Senate has strengthened and which will decide on each of the decisions taken in this regard. The fee envelope will be annual, as for the personal training account. A lump sum could have been considered for the duration of the term of office, but it was the continuity with the current DIFE and the reconciliation with the personal training account that were selected because this solution has the merit of being readable and consistent with the other arrangements. I would remind you that DIFE's euro rights will be added to the financing of training by the communities. Thirdly, this reform will ensure quality training provided by more rigorous bodies. To this end, the Senate has introduced into the text the creation of a free online training platform for all elected officials. This basic training base is an excellent idea and I will start the first work on this subject very quickly. A national directory of the training of elected officials will be drawn up in a concerted manner in order to define the subjects of training eligible for public funding. The Senate has also introduced the principle of prohibiting subcontracting to non-approved organizations. However, in order not to destabilise the economic model of training organizations, particularly the smaller ones, it has maintained the possibility of using outside actors in a very flexible framework. Finally, the order of 20 January 2021 brings the status of elected training bodies closer to that of the formations of ordinary law, but in order to preserve the small structures of administrative burdens which would be too burdensome, it provides for the possibility of derogating from the obligation of quality certification when the organization is below a certain volume of activity: I think, for example, of the departmental associations of elected officials. Fourth and final point: the governance of the sector is simplified and strengthened. The order is intended to strengthen the CNFEL, which I would remind you is composed half of local elected representatives and is chaired by one of them. I will give him all the tools necessary for him to give opinions that are perfectly informed, on all the issues of formation of elected officials, since the Senate has already significantly strengthened its prerogatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and IDU-I groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reform that the Government is submitting for your approval. I would like to thank the rapporteur, as well as the Committee on Laws and all the groups, who have understood our approach. I believe that this text is an important step in the creation of a real status of the elected one, following the law "engagement and proximity", but I also believe that it will not be the last: this is the urgent reform of a system in crisis, there is still to be done in order to translate its ambition into the daily lives of the elected ones, and I am committed to launching quickly a work to evaluate the new system and, of course, a work to prepare for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u6	I call Mr Bruno Questel, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u7	Our debates this morning should conclude this virtuous and exemplary cycle, opened in 2019 with the adoption of the "engagement and proximity" law that I had the honour to report in this House. It is on the basis of this law of 27 December 2019 that the Government was empowered to legislate by order to carry out the reform of the formation of local elected officials, the success of the process requiring in-depth consultation of the relevant actors, all of which recognize that it has been carried out with great efficiency. Since this consultation is not only a façade, it has enabled a broad consensus to be drawn around this reform, which was culminated in the publication of the ordinances of 20 January 2021 and 27 January 2021, which are now the subject of express ratification by Parliament. All of this deserves to be underlined and praised. I would like to commend the work done by the honourable senators, who, first of all, have enriched it constructively and appropriately. Our Committee on Laws adopted it last Wednesday with virtually no reservations. I welcome this because I know that we are all very attached, regardless of our political affiliation, to the crucial question of the formation of local elected officials. This broad consensus was first built on the basis of a finding that reform is indispensable. Its imperative character is indisputable because the two arrangements for the formation of local elected representatives that coexist today unfortunately do not meet the challenges and expectations. The right to training directly implemented by local authorities is the historic training channel, since it has existed since 1992. However, while expenditure on the right to information constitutes compulsory expenditure for communities, which must be between 2% and 20% of the total amount of the official allowances, many of them, including the smallest municipalities, do not even deliberate on the implementation of this scheme. Therefore, while the right to training is expected to mobilise EUR 34 million per year, it can only finance EUR 15 million of training actually provided. In parallel, the individual right to the formation of elected officials entered into force on 1 January 2016. It allows each local elected official to have an annual personal credit of 20 hours, which can be combined over the duration of the term of office and which is freely available to everyone. This is a considerable step forward in promoting access to the right to training for local elected officials. We owe it to the important work done by the Minister. This scheme, which is now managed by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, is financed by a compulsory contribution from staff allowances, which may not be less than 1% of their amount, representing a budget of EUR 17 million. However, the DIFE now focuses on the main concerns, which justified the initiation of reform. I will only mention the two most important problems. First, the financial trajectory of the fund and, as it stands, unsustainable, as it is based on a very low and concentrated recourse rate. Secondly, while abuses – minority but worrying – have been noted, the control of training bodies is clearly insufficient, and the quality of training is sometimes unsatisfactory. This observation, drawn up by a particularly enlightening report of the General Inspections of Administration (IGA) and Social Affairs (IGAS), is shared by all the players in the formation of local elected representatives whom I have been able to audition – I would also like to welcome the presence of Mr Patrick Mennucci in the stands. I thank them for their sense of responsibility. This required a strong and ambitious response to maintain the sustainability of the system and to strengthen the training arrangements for elected officials. First, the ordinances of 20 and 27 January 2021 adapt the system to the communes of New Caledonia, and organize a better complementarity of the two training schemes I have described earlier. To this end, they allow the local authorities to take a decision in order to participate in the financing of the trainings attended by local elected representatives in the framework of the DIFE. In addition, in order to allow a better pooling of resources, in particular in favour of small municipalities which are struggling to implement the right to training, each public institution for intercommunal cooperation (EPCI) with its own taxation will be required, six months after its renewal, to decide on the advisability of proposing common tools to develop training linked to the exercise of the mandates of municipal elected officials. Maintaining the financial balance of the DIFE funding fund is another important aspect of the reform. Madam Minister, as you said, DIFE will now be counted in euros instead of hours. This essential provision is intended in particular to put an end to the excessive tariffs imposed by certain training bodies. While the original text of the Order provided that unused appropriations would not be cumulated year by year, the Senate reintroduced this possibility within a ceiling. In addition, it will be the responsibility of CNFEL – whose missions are also strengthened – to ensure that the financial balance of DIFE is maintained. The information and access of local elected officials to training will also be improved, including through the free and dematerialized DIFE management service which the CDC is responsible for implementing. This new service is expected to simplify the process and promote better access to training. The challenge of the fourth pillar of the reform is the transparency and quality of training. Training bodies for local elected officials will now be subject to the common law applicable to vocational training bodies, in particular as regards quality control and certification. In the event of non-compliance, a procedure has also been introduced for suspending and repealing the authorisation from which they are granted. At the initiative of the Senate, subcontracting will be substantially supervised with the aim of putting an end to the drifts that have been found. I will conclude by referring to the transitional procedure that will preserve the rights acquired by local elected officials. While most of the provisions of the Ordinance came into force last January, elected officials may still use the DIFE recorded in hours held by them on the date of publication of the Ordinance until July 23. I am pleased that a mechanism for converting unused hours into euros, applicable after that date, has been introduced by senators. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be a surprise: I believe that the text before us is balanced, relevant and expected. If I do not deny the interest of the amendments which have been tabled and discussed in committee, I believe that we can adopt it as it stands, so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our debates in committee have highlighted the road we still have to take to ensure that the country takes full advantage of the wealth of its approximately 510,000 local elected representatives, in a context that makes engagement increasingly difficult and admirable. Almost forty years after the first laws of decentralization that first laid down the concept of the status of the elected candidate, undeniable progress has been made, notably during the current legislature with the adoption of the law of 27 December 2019 on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. As the minister has said, however, we know that we will have to go further in order to one day arrive at the definition of a real status of the local elected official.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u8	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u9	We are discussing the ratification of ordinances on the formation of local elected officials. These, which introduce necessary changes, leave aside important problems that still need to be addressed. I am thinking first of all of the effectiveness of the use of training: under the guise of financial balance, there is a risk of moving towards an austere regime which would prevent the actual use of training. We have put forward several proposals to remedy this: the establishment of training plans and a day dedicated to informing elected officials, the obligation to attend at least one training during the term of office, and the generalization of compulsory training at the beginning of the term of office. Secondly, the issue of equal treatment of elected officials is not addressed at all. Yet the formation crystallizes the inequalities between majority and opposition, between small and large communes, between elected officials with a delegation of office and elected without delegation. It is necessary to address these inequalities by introducing specific allocations for the most difficult municipalities which cannot provide a budget for training, or by providing for progressive contributions according to the amount of the allowances of the elected representatives. In addition, better control by the prefecture should be provided when the right to the use of training is violated for opposition elected officials – the ministry has committed itself on this point, I should like to note. Other measures could be taken: organization of an information day in connection with elected associations and prefectures; obligation to attend at least one training course during the term of office under the DIFE; generalization of compulsory training at the beginning of the term, whether or not the elected official has a delegation, so that all are on an equal footing with regard to their rights. Thirdly, there is the question of the democratization of governance. The bill will strengthen the powers granted to CNFEL, including the establishment of a training register and the possibility of making proposals if the fund is again unbalanced. We believe that these increased powers must, at the very least, be accompanied by a democratization of the composition of the CNFEL, in which the place of the elected representatives would be strengthened and which would be open to the citizens. With regard to ethics and ethics, regulatory and legislative progress has been made with regard to large voractic organizations, particularly with regard to the regulation of the price of training and subcontracting. On the other hand, it might be welcome to better monitor the ethics of elected officials who mobilise the right to training, in order to prevent a small minority from taking over the fund for questionable training, or using it to pay for undue living and mouth expenses. On this point, we propose to mobilise the citizens, by bringing them into the CNFEL and entrusting them, in particular, with the monitoring of ethics. Finally, there is an important gap in the still-deferred question of the status of the elected official: the recognition of the competences of elected officials. An elected official in charge of urban planning or public finances acquires real skills which, to date, are not recognized, which can complicate professional reintegration and tends to increase dependence on elected office. This dependence raises a democratic question since, in the absence of a statute, some elected officials are quasi-professionals who, in order to ensure their material life, are forced to return to a mandate. Such a state of affairs paves the way for various political manoeuvres to win elections or try to do so through politically absurd alliances – all of which have the effect of disgusting the citizens of politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u10	We have specialists in unsuspecting France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u11	To avoid this, it is necessary to organise the return of elected officials to employment, which involves the recognition of professional skills and qualifications. Contrary to what has been said in the committee, the recognition of these skills by a dedicated certificate would allow for the distancing of this non-arm's length and the preparation of professional reintegration, while recognizing the formative nature of the elected mandate. Nevertheless, we withdrew the amendment that we tabled on this point because the department assured us that it was going to dig into the subject. We thank him for this, and we expect him to fulfil his commitments to ensure that training is no longer the last wheel of the coach, that the elected representatives are better informed, that the opposition is better protected by the prefectures and that deep reflections on the effectiveness of the right to training lead to proposals at least as ambitious as ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u12	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u13	The formation of elected officials is an important part of our democratic life. Without wishing to transform them into technicians – it is not their role – these women and men of commitment, often confronted with high-tech issues, should be armed with knowledge. Unfortunately, the current system, whether in terms of training within the framework of the mandate or the DIFE, is not able to train the elected representatives massively, especially in small communes. There are too many obstacles – funding problems, lack of time, lack of access to their rights. If the Government's orders offer initial answers, they will remain incomplete until we really work on the status of the elected candidate. How do you train when you're elected and you're working elsewhere? How to finance training when you are a small town? How to validate skills acquired? The observation is alarming: only 3% of elected officials use their DIFE. However, the scheme is in very great deficit: the 17 million euros a year of the fund managed by the CDC is not enough. With the new budgetary balance obligation, how will we allow many more elected officials to form themselves? If 30%, 20% or even 10% of elected officials decide to use their DIFE, how will we finance their training? Unfortunately, these ordinances do not provide an answer. Similarly, the training of elected officials within the framework of their mandates is too limited. It is regrettable that many communities cannot or do not want to devote the amounts provided for in the Act of 3 February 1992. It should be noted that regional councillors receive 60 times more training than municipal councillors, with only one in two municipalities providing for a training budget. We must go towards free training, with a discharge for the elected officials who work, in order to ensure that each elected official will be able, in the first year of his or her term of office, to form at least once on a subject of his or her choice. We support the provisions contained in the ordinances which aim to improve the supervision of training bodies and to monitor the training offered, as well as their prices. The IGA and IGAS report was particularly enlightening and worrying; Public money is not meant to be hijacked in this way. It is purely scandalous, as it is scandalous that elected officials turn into VRPs of training bodies for remuneration. We must be very firm and prohibit these practices. The same applies to cascade subcontracting, which sometimes allows non-accredited organizations to provide training of very varying quality. Subcontracting must be prohibited, except where an intervenor performs a one-time intervention for which he or she mobilizes specific expertise. The Senate has significantly improved the initial drafting of orders. Several amendments, including those tabled by the republican citizen and environmental communist group, have changed the arrangements provided for in the ordinances, whether they concern access to the DIFE, the cumulation of individual rights to training or the control of training bodies – a very important point as I mentioned earlier. That was said in committee: these orders are bandages. If they offer emergency solutions to clean up a system that does not work well, they do not provide a structural response, particularly regarding the status of the elected candidate. No doubt it would not have been necessary to resort to ordinances, and to allow the Senate and the National Assembly to legislate on this issue in a more complete and structural way. This would certainly have made it possible to make the democratisation of the formation of elected officials truly effective, within the framework of a more comprehensive and protective status. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, aware of the need to put an end to certain abuses, will not oppose the ratification of the ordinances, while regretting the method adopted, and the absence of structural measures allowing the enlargement of the formations and the fact that the important question of the status of the elected one is not addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u14	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u15	After having ordered, through various pieces of legislation, training for other sectors, it is high time to tackle that of local elected officials by ratifying the ordinances provided for in article 105 of the Act "engagement and proximity" of 27 December 2019. It should be recalled that the National Standards Assessment Council (CNEN) unanimously delivered a favourable opinion on this text and that the Senate enriched it at first reading. In the continuity of the 2017 law for confidence in political life, it is a matter of reinvigorating a lucrative market where honest and competent operators coexist, but unfortunately also, let us say, a few unscrupulous and opaque private bodies, providing, without real control, formations of interest and variable content at relatively expensive rates. These ordinances follow four axes. The first is to facilitate and strengthen access to training for local elected officials, by changing the count of training entitlements, which will no longer take place in hours but in euros; maintaining the possibility of cumulating acquired rights; dematerializing access procedures; integrating the intercommunal dimension – a significant step forward. It also aims to ensure the financial sustainability of the fund for the financing of the individual right to training by providing for mechanisms of alert and balance, strengthening the control of the CDC and expanding the modalities and sources of funding. The second focus is on the renewal of governance. The aim is to complement the tasks of CNFEL and to provide it with a board of directors composed of local elected officials and qualified personalities. That's another step forward. The third axis strengthens the control, transparency and quality of training. The text tightens the rules for obtaining ministerial approval; establishes a quality certification; aligns training bodies with reporting and monitoring obligations, which are now applicable to all sectors of training; creates sanction procedures by abolishing any legal authorisation; severely supervises subcontracting and prohibits second-tier subcontracting. All these measures were very much expected by many elected officials, eager to put an end to the drifts. Finally, it is a question of providing for transitional measures to preserve the rights acquired during the transition from one system to another. The majority naturally see this reform with a very good eye. However, I would like to ask two questions to the Minister about associations of elected representatives, particularly departmental ones. Have you decided the question of the threshold below which the device can be lightened? The aim is to allow for the continuation of community training provided by the associations of elected representatives, who are usually the first formations of high quality. The organization should not be made outrageously complex. Will it be possible to distinguish between recourse for this type of training to an outsider and the logic of subcontracting? This question comes back regularly in the mouth of those who organize community training and it is important to answer it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] These two points seem to me to require clarification, which will be welcome. Nevertheless, the text clearly represents a clear step forward. As you say, this is a step, probably not the last, but it will be a milestone, because the orders will put order in the sector: it was necessary to improve the clarity and transparency, but also the quality of the training and the guarantees offered to those who organise them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u16	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u17	The text we are discussing this morning may seem technical. It is, since it concerns a small regulatory niche of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion; Nevertheless, it is at the heart of democratic questioning. What is being elected? How does one exercise an elected office? Are the qualities necessary to acquire a mandate the same as those that allow it to be properly exercised? That's the question. Adherence to the mandate is governed by the rule of free competition: in a liberal democracy like ours, everyone manages to achieve it. But it is not all to acquire the mandate, but to exercise it. This requires understanding the system and rules of the rule of law – a less obvious task than election. As you said, France has more than 500,000 elected officials; It's a chance, but it's a problem that we have to deal with. The ordinances we are about to ratify have been provided for in the "engagement and proximity" law. As a matter of principle, we are always vigilant with regard to the orders and the divestiture of Parliament that accompanies them. However, Minister, I would like to commend the quality of the discussions and the work done with your services to prepare for the discussion of this text. This is not always the case, so it must be stressed. This text effectively improves the system of training of elected officials, whose specificities it maintains without creating a new system. This balance is important. An elected office is not an employee's mission, it cannot be treated in the same way. The balance that has been found seems to us to be consistent. It respects both the voluntary nature of the commitment of the majority of elected officials, who can use a tool they already know, and the specific nature of their mandate, which should not be confused with paid employment. At the risk of setting foot in the ground, I would like to stress a matter of concern to us, that of the place of political parties and their bodies of formation. Indeed, who can train an elected official to perform his or her duties? To exclude political parties and their training bodies from the list of bodies that could carry out this mission would be a democratic problem. This possibility is maintained. I hope that the political parties will be able to seize this opportunity to continue to form local, departmental and regional elected representatives, because that is also the heart of democracy. It will never be enough to recall that our Constitution assigns political parties the role of contributing to the expression of votes, which involves not only the formation of candidates, but also the formation of elected representatives. Finally, I have some regrets, which I have already expressed in committee. It would have been interesting to modulate the package of training facilities over the duration of the term of office. Indeed, the need for training is not linear and cannot be reduced to simply retraining or updating. Thus, it is often at the beginning of a term of office that new elected officials have an increased need for training. But I understand that the work on this subject will continue and that it is an urgent text that we are voting on today. This regret is therefore also hope. Particular attention must also be paid, through regulatory measures or due process of law, to the training of elected representatives by their communities on their budgets. In this area, there is still room for drifts and it is absolutely necessary to adopt a logic of expenditure control, with the support of our very well-functioning treasury network. When the expenditure is entered on the "training" line, treasurers must be required to ensure that the training is carried out by qualified and certified bodies and not, as I have seen in my commune, by a private coach who comes up to 5000 euros to carry out two half days of animation of the team of assistants. Such practices are unacceptable and contrary to the honesty that must characterize elective service. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] These are our main concerns. I agree with my colleague Rémy Rebeyrotte on the need to be vigilant about the small associations of elected representatives, who must continue to ensure territorial networking. But given the quality of the work we have done prior to this discussion, and given that this text is a milestone, the Republican Group will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u18	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u19	Before being recognized as a right, the training of local elected officials was largely based on ad hoc initiatives, which were poorly regulated by law. Following Act I on Decentralisation, in 1982, the recognition of the increased powers of local authorities increased the technicality of the functions performed by local elected officials. Their right to training was created ten years later by the Act of 3 February 1992 on the conditions for the exercise of local mandates. This first scheme is funded by the communities, which are required to cover these expenses up to an amount between a floor of 2 per cent and a ceiling of 20 per cent of the total allowances payable to elected officials. The content of the training must be linked to the fulfilment of the mandate. At present, as has been said, rights are largely under-used. In 2015, together with your colleague Senator Jean-Pierre Sueur at the time, you had already suggested, Madam Minister, in the context of a bill, the introduction of an individual right to the formation of local elected representatives. Today, our country has about 510,000 local elected representatives: more than 1900 regional councillors, just over 4000 departmental councillors and more than 500,000 municipal councillors. The vast majority of them are volunteers. In order to ensure that they can best exercise the skills assigned to them, they have the right to receive individual training adapted to their function. It is an essential lever to acquire the skills necessary for the proper discharge of their mandate. This training is no less important with a view to re-integration at the end of the term of office, as the function of elected officer is not a profession. To make decisions that have an impact on the lives of the French, to know the rights and duties of a local elected official, to communicate, to speak in public, to draw up a budget, to conduct a public consultation, to supervise a team, all this is part of the daily life of the elected representatives. This is why, as in the business world, training is an essential step in the best management of a community. The second device, the DIFE, was introduced in 2016. As the rapporteur explained, the DIFE provides each local elected official with an annual personal credit of 20 hours, which can be combined throughout the term of office and which the elected official can freely dispose of. Managed by the CDC, the DIFE funding fund is abounded by a compulsory contribution from the staff allowances, which represents a budget of 17 million euros. However, many dysfunctions have occurred. It is now necessary to remedy it permanently and effectively. The bill before us is intended to ratify two orders aimed at three objectives: facilitating access to training; ensure the sustainability of the fund for the financing of the individual right to the training of elected officials while renovating the governance of the system; improve the quality of training provided. These include the development of DIFE and community funding for training, the creation of new skills for CNFEL, and the strengthening of oversight of training organizations. This overall reform is expected; It is the result of a consensus view of both the method and the provisions that we are going to ratify today. It provides us with an opportunity to modernise the training tools for local elected officials and to improve their transparency and control. This is important because the current problems stem mainly from the lack of financial sustainability of the scheme, which now survives only thanks to the very low use of its DIFE by elected officials. In fact, only 3% of them use it. Before I conclude, I would like to commend the work of our colleagues in this chamber. For the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, the Senate's input is fully satisfactory. That is why we have not tabled any amendments in committee, supporting a proper vote. However, our group will be extremely vigilant about the effectiveness of the controls put in place to ensure that the right to the training of elected officials by the communities is respected, and remedies for refusal and non-compliance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that, as in committee, our group will vote for this balanced and necessary text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u20	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u21	The right to training of local elected officials was established by the Act of 3 February 1992 on the conditions for the exercise of local mandates. Since then, local authorities had to budget between 2 per cent and 20 per cent of their allowances for elected officials in their budgets, in order to finance training related to the mandate. There were two main weaknesses in this framework. First, the amount available for the training of elected officials was all the more limited as the amount of allowances was low, forcing the vast majority of local authorities. Secondly, it did not allow elected officials to prepare for their return to work through appropriate training. The Act of 31 March 2015 to facilitate the exercise by local elected officials of their mandate was intended to overcome these two difficulties. In particular, it has created an individual right to the training of local elected officials, consisting of an annual appropriation of 20 hours of training which can be combined over the duration of the term of office and financed by a compulsory contribution, the rate of which may not be less than 1 per cent, and drawn from the allowances received by the elected officials. Unlike the 1992 Act and in response to the above-mentioned difficulty, DIFE can finance both mandate-related training and training that is devoid of it but allows for the acquisition of the skills necessary for vocational reintegration at the end of the mandate. Despite this reform, a report by IGA and IGAS of 2020 highlighted a rate of use of their right to training of only 3% of local elected officials. The main obstacle is, once again, financial. As our colleague in the Senate has pointed out, if we consider that the total amount of allowances for local elected officials is EUR 1.7 billion, the revenue of the financing fund of DIFE, which represents 1% of this amount, is only EUR 17 million. With an average hourly cost of 80 euros for training, it was estimated that only 2.13% of elected officials would benefit from such funded training each year, all the more so since the economic sector of the formation of elected officials was insufficiently regulated. The Act of 27 December 2019 on the involvement in local life and the proximity of public action aimed to address these difficulties by means of ordinances, which were finally published in January 2021. These provide for a number of developments that we welcome. This is the case, for example, for the accounting of individual training entitlements in hours rather than in euros, which should lead to a reduction in the average cost of training. This is also the case with the possibility of better pooling of training resources at the inter-municipal level, as well as the creation of dematerialised platforms that provide broad and regular information to local elected officials on their rights. Finally, the strengthening of the rules on the accreditation and certification of training bodies was expected and necessary. We commend the work of our fellow senators, including Françoise Gatel, who have greatly enriched these orders in this ratification bill. The possibility of cumulating the DIFE throughout the term and, for the community, abounding in complementary rights is to be emphasized, as is the measures providing for a strengthening of the information of local elected officials on their rights and the clarification of the modalities for returning to balance of the fund for financing the DIFE. Of course, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, this reform is not the end of the project. However, this is a necessary step to save DIFE and to increase the use of local elected officials at a more reasonable cost. But only the establishment of a real status of the local elected official and the rights attached thereto will be likely to provide a lasting response. We also agreed on the need for initial training on the role of the elected representative, the functioning of local authorities, and ethical and ethical issues, which could be proposed and even imposed on all at the beginning of the mandate, but this implies a significant financial effort by the State. With this in mind, and in order for these early reforms to come into force quickly, our group, like most of our colleagues, has abstained from proposing amendments for a proper adoption, and will vote in favour of this bill. We are counting on you, Mr rapporteur, to ensure, as you have committed yourself to doing, an evaluation that will allow us to prepare for the next stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u22	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u23	I would like to thank you for this bill ratifying orders designed to improve the access of elected officials to quality formations while correcting certain devices that are currently inoperative. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the exceptional presence, a little moving for me, of my friend Patrick Mennucci, as President of the National Federation of Training Organizations for Local Elected Officials (FNOFEL), the only professional union in the sector, which I believe has contributed a great deal to the text. I know his will that the state will regain confidence in vocational training bodies for elected officials. It is with this in mind that we adopted the law of 27 December 2019 on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. The Act provided for the adoption of an ordinance reforming the formation of local elected officials. We are therefore meeting to ratify the two ordinances made under this authorization. As I mentioned at the time, our right to training is not ambitious enough. There is very little involvement of the municipalities on this subject. Indeed, as noted in the progress report, 62% of the municipalities did not finance any vocational training in 2018. While the right to training should have mobilised 34 million euros a year, it only finances 15 million euros of training, which means that 19 million euros are not used to train local elected officials. That's unfortunate. I therefore welcome these orders, which will, I am sure, strengthen the funding mechanism for these trainings by the communities. This bill will also make it possible to sustain the DIFE, which, since the 2015 law, is financed by a compulsory contribution of elected officials whose rate must be equal to or greater than 1%. The Ordinance introduces possibilities for the co-financing of DIFE by local and regional authorities, which we welcome for its pragmatism. We also very much welcome Article 1, which provides local elected officials with access to basic training modules to begin their mandate on a solid basis. I wrote it in a book published last year, where the question of the formation of elected officials is fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u24	Excellent work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u25	Article 11 will, inter alia, allow for the creation of a directory of training courses related to these mandates, which will facilitate access to information for local elected officials. In fact, training needs vary not only from one elected official to another, but also because of the specific characteristics of each community. The offer must therefore be as varied as possible. Each local elected official will be able to know the amount of the rights available to him by accessing a dedicated space on this platform, which will allow him to compare and register with the various training offers. We welcome these advances, which will make it possible to offer various formations to our local elected officials, who will be fully informed of these possibilities. I regret, however, Madam Minister, that the advisors of the French abroad, whom I represent in the National Assembly as a deputy of the French abroad, do not have their full place in the ordinances. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a special tribute to the 447 councillors of the French abroad, as well as to the 77 delegates newly elected on 30 May, as well as to all the candidates who ran for election to the French abroad, who, after a campaign postponed for a year, were able to raise the expectations of our compatriots living beyond our borders. Elected by direct universal suffrage by the French in their country or constituency for a six-year term, they are local representatives who know and support our fellow citizens at the French consulates and embassies, sometimes evolving under difficult security, health and economic conditions. I am thinking of the French advisers from Mali, Burkina Faso and the whole region in the Sahel. It seemed important to me to recall this in the Chamber: these elected representatives represent the 3.5 million French people who live abroad and who are ambassadors of our know-how and know-how. This has resulted in an increased role for consular councils. It is now essential that their working conditions be equally so. They are not yet local mayors but they are representatives and they chair consular councils – that's a good thing. The health crisis and multiple confinements have proved how much we need these interfaces with our fellow citizens living abroad and their institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and Dem groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of the ratification of these orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u26	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u27	Madam Minister, as you pointed out in the preamble to your speech, there is a specificity in France: more than 500,000 women and men dedicate themselves daily to their communes, their departments, their regions or to the ultramarine communities. It is a system that we find relatively little in other countries and it is a force for our democracy, especially since most of these elected officials are volunteering, often at the expense of their personal lives, sometimes at the expense of their professional lives. When we talk about the formation of local elected officials, it is good to recall these facts that many of our fellow citizens do not know. Many of us here have been local elected representatives – you, the minister, have a long and solid experience in this area – and we know how much the missions of these have evolved, in their magnitude, which requires ever more availability, as in their complexity. The subjects which depend today on local and regional authorities are the subject of an expectation or even a greater need on the part of our fellow citizens, and the regulation becomes more and more binding, so that, when a new elected official may feel that he or she is drowned in the mass of information and decisions to be taken, sometimes in extremely time-consuming times. The aim of the training is to help those newly elected, such as those who are more experienced, not only to fulfil their mission with the greatest efficiency, but to provide for post-employment, if democracy speaks against them or if they choose not to exercise a mandate to return to civilian life. The reform you are proposing is based on three principles which, in the current state of law and the organisation of vocational training, are not fully guaranteed. The first is the access of all elected representatives – small municipalities and large communities, the majority and the opposition – to the formation of their choice. Today, this principle is not guaranteed, not because of the unwillingness of local executives, but because their culture does not yet give them a systematic preference to training and because very small municipalities do not always have the opportunity to organize local formations, their elected representatives moving less easily than those of large communities. The second principle, as you said, is financial balance. It is also not guaranteed at present and is a real concern, especially as funding needs increase as training needs increase, with elected officials gradually becoming aware of their right to training. Finally, the third principle to be guaranteed is equity. We all have in mind the excesses and abuses committed by some unscrupulous training organizations, which were initiated with a logic of extra cost and over-billing of benefits, which, moreover, did not always meet the expectations of the territorial elected representatives. The bill is balanced – we have had the opportunity to say it on several occasions – and the government has admitted that two issues will be subject to reform in due course. The first is the role of the CNFPF, which cannot now offer training to local elected officials, who could follow those addressed to territorial officials whose training needs are very close to their own. There is, I think, a real avenue to explore. The second topic is the possibility for local and regional authorities to become bodies for the formation of elected representatives. Some are already doing so, in terms of planning or budgetary matters, for their territorial officials; They could just as well become so for their local elected officials. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] The IDU and independent group supports the adoption of the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u28	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u29	Elected officials are increasingly being called upon to carry out increasingly complex, but necessary, tasks in order to succeed in their mandates. Local urban planning plans, public finances, police power, environmental standards: not all of these subjects are controlled overnight after the election, a fortiori for the elected representatives of small local authorities and communes. However, this was recalled, in 2019, less than 3% of local elected officials received training, for a cost that in many cases does not seem justified. The training package for local elected officials cost €28 million in 2019. According to the forecast figures obtained by Mediapart, the expenditure is expected to be even higher in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u30	I didn't know Mediapart was an institute of statistics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u31	The Caisses des dépôts et consignations states that 41 million were committed in 2020 as part of the individual right to the formation of elected officials, but that out of 500,000 French elected officials, only 13500 were trained. How did we get there? We all know that. Training bodies have entered the flaws of the system. Since the cost of training was not capped, it was enough to convince the elected representatives to empty their tens of hours of DIFE to secure considerable margins. In fact, current and former elected officials have been recruited as business bringers. Many formations were aimed not at training the mandate, but at preparing for future elections. However, the formation is supposed to train the elected representatives and not to benefit the outgoings in preparation for the next elections. The CNC validated these electoral formations until it questioned the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities in the summer of 2019. You then asked, Madam Minister, to put an end to this practice. Good! In the same vein, the text makes it possible to simplify the training scheme, to convert the envelope into an envelope in euros, thus limiting unnecessary public expenditure. We are satisfied with this mechanism, as well as with the fact that local and regional authorities can contribute financially to the formation of elected officials by placing the financial contribution in the personal account of the elected official. Compensating the reductions resulting from the conversion of individual rights to training held by local elected officials from hours to euros, while strengthening the control of training bodies, is a simplification compared to current practices. Thus, the contributions of the Senate were welcome, which will strengthen the quality of the formations to make them truly useful in the exercise of the elected officials' mandate. Nevertheless, this text suffers from several shortcomings. First, there will be as few elected representatives as ever. The Government expects 20,000 per year, which is insufficient. Secondly, the bill does not give priority, financially, to the mayors of the small communes, whose training needs are greater than others. Finally, the question of control and transparency remains. If we support better monitoring of the provision of training in individual rights and information to enhance quality, we are concerned about the maintenance of centralisation of control by a national body. Whenever a problem arises in our country, it is solved at national level by more centralisation, while the control of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, which will be part of the CNFEL, has so far been very weak – the least we can say! The shortcomings of this control must be overcome and the right to training must be centralised, since the latter is ultimately the responsibility of the prefectures, which have little capacity to carry out their tasks. Transparency seems to be the most appropriate solution to avoid abuse. As far as public money is concerned, it seems indispensable. In our view, the best control must be carried out in a transparent manner and reinforced by the deliberative assemblies themselves. In the meantime, it would be necessary for the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to publish annually all the information relating to the funded training, i.e., in addition to the name of the elected candidate and the title of the training, the name of the provider organisation, the cost, the date and place of the training – the Libertés et territoires Group will present an amendment to this effect. In the end, minister, we welcome this bill, which we will support. However, we remain in expectation of the transparency of the system and its increase in both qualitative and quantitative power for the benefit of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u32	The general discussion is closed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u33	[["Ah! » on various benches]] Before I answer the questions that have been asked, I thank the speakers of all the groups for their support and understanding of the situation of the formation of local elected officials in our country. Mr Lachaud, you have insisted on the commitments we have made and I give you my word that we will keep them. You also stressed the situation of the small communes and their difficulty in including in their budgets a minimum amount of 2% of the allowances of elected officials for training. This difficulty needs to be put into perspective: I am familiar with small municipalities, as you know, and I know from experience that some of them sometimes have two or three budgets in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u34	Sometimes even more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u35	We have, I believe, taken the necessary steps by allowing elected representatives to combine the various funding to which they are entitled in terms of training and the municipalities, and their EPCIs to pool the organisation and financing of the training of their elected representatives. Thank you, Mr. Lachaud. You also mentioned, like Raphaël Schellenberger, the respect of their obligations by local and regional authorities. It is a priority for the Government and elected associations. In the coming months, we will do a pedagogy to remind communities of the need to inform elected officials of their individual right to training and elected officials responsible for the management of local authorities of the obligation to include in the budget a minimum amount of 2% of the allowances of elected officials for training. To convey these important messages, we will mobilize the prefectures and work with elected associations. Mr Bruneel, you say that the Order of 20 January 2021 on the reform of the formation of local elected representatives does not solve the question of funding. It probably does not do so sufficiently to your liking, but its objective is to ensure the maintenance of the system, which, as you know, requires today, in order to continue to operate, a cash advance from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. I understand your observation, but nothing will prevent us from considering additional funding when the situation is settled and consolidated. Mr Rebeyrotte, you mentioned the prohibition of subcontracting and the use of external training. In my view, it was very important to ban subcontracting: this measure will help to clean up the situation and empower accredited bodies without undermining their economic model. However, it will remain possible for an organization to employ outside trainers. Thus, a departmental association of mayors will have the possibility to use external pedagogical expertise, provided that it enters into a contract with the trainer himself. So things are clear. You also asked the question of the funding threshold above which quality certification will be mandatory. I don't know if you know that, but about fifty departmental associations of mayors are asking to be approved for the formation of elected officials. The representatives of the Association of Mayors of France (AMF) and the departmental associations of mayors whom we have met are considering, at this stage, a threshold of 100,000 euros, which we consider reasonable. However, the scheme will not be definitive: if it were found that this threshold was not appropriate, we could amend it in consultation with the CNFEL. As you recalled, Mr Schellenberger, the Government finally abandoned the option of rights granted on a lump sum basis. Two main reasons have led us to this decision. The first is the readability of the device. The current DIFE and the personal employee training account are based on annual envelopes. It seems consistent to us that DIFE continues to function in this way. The second reason is fiscal sustainability. With an annual envelope, the expenditure takes place during the mandate as revenue is collected, which limits cash flow requirements and now seems more reasonable given the already deteriorating financial situation of DIFE. Mrs Jourdan, you have suggested that the State should propose a basic training platform for local elected officials. That is precisely what we intend to do and we will do it through the online training platform provided by the bill. We will have to meet this great challenge in the coming months. I believe that this is the right solution to reach a large number of elected officials with quality content. This will also make it possible to inform those who want to go further about their rights to training: this platform will be an information tool. You remember – I turn to the rapporteur – that the law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action provided that the prefect and the prosecutor should receive the mayors of the department after taking up their duties. These welcoming sessions of the new elected representatives will be an opportunity to explain the rules of the game and, possibly, to organize trainings. Having been vice-president of the AMF for years, I attended many trainings thanks in particular to the officials of the prefecture and the departmental directorates of the territories (DDT); in this case they were free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u36	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u37	Mr El Guerrab, you have rightly mentioned the role of French foreign advisers, but this text concerns local elected officials; However, the representatives of the French abroad are not elected representatives of local authorities. That said, you should think about forging a training system for them – I can only encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u38	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u39	Mr Brindeau, all elected associations are opposed to a rapprochement between the training of officials and that of elected officials. This seems very clear in their minds as this distinction guarantees, in their view, the pluralism of supply. On the other hand, it is true, Mr Schellenberger, that political parties contribute to the public debate, but it is clear that if the two types of formation are mixed, there is a risk of gender confusion. As for local authorities, they themselves can organise training, but the latter will obviously be free of charge. I assured a lot in my time, perhaps also because I was also a teacher. It was a mix of genres, but it was like that! Finally, Mr Pancher, you are right: transparency is needed. The online platform will contribute to this, as it will enable elected representatives to compare the offers and prices offered by all accredited organisations. Comparison of the training courses will be facilitated by linking them to the themes listed in the national directory of the formation of local elected officials. The CADA – Commission for Access to Administrative Documents – which was recently seized, indicated that DIFE data is communicable to anyone who requests it, as is already the case for community funding data. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The supervision of subcontracting also meets the requirement of transparency; the annual report of the CNFEL will be made public and the training bodies will send it a detailed list of the courses carried out each year. So we have made real progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u40	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u41	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, in support of Amendment No 5 on the additional Rule after Rule 1a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u42	It is intended to insert a sentence reading: "This table includes, in addition to the names of the elected representatives and the title of the training, the name of the training organization, the cost of the training, its date and place. » Indeed, several articles of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities provide that a table summarizing the training activities of the elected representatives of the assemblies of Martinique and Guyana – at the municipal, departmental and regional level – is annexed to the administrative account, which is a good thing. This table is expected to lead to an annual discussion on training for community members. However, as we all know, its presentation varies greatly from one community to another, with some referring only to the name of the elected candidate and the training that was undertaken, without indicating its cost, date and location, or the name of the organization concerned. However, this latest information is central to detecting possible abuses, which, if they are a minority, are very regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u43	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u44	According to the decree of 14 May 2021, the annual activity report to be submitted by each holder of an authorisation must indicate the place, date, duration in hours, the price and title of the training given, the number of participants present and the identity of the trainers. Your amendment seems to us to be very much satisfied with these provisions. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u45	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u46	Mr Pancher, I have finished my speech with an address for you regarding the need for transparency, which I understand very well. As you pointed out, some communities are already publishing reports at this level of detail and this does not pose any particular difficulties. In any event, such information is already communicable, as I have just said, by CADA. So I have no objection in principle to the evolution you are proposing. However, providing for the level of detail of administrative accounts is not a matter for the law but a matter for regulation. If you wish, we can work with the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts to modernize and detail these tables in the sense you indicate. I think this is quite possible and it will be very simple to achieve, so I will ask you to withdraw your amendment, if you will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u47	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u48	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No 11 on the additional Rule after Rule 1b.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u49	It aims to generalize to all elected officials the mandatory training organised during the first year of the term of office, and to oblige each local elected official to take at least one training during his or her term of office, within the framework of the DIFE. There are now two cadres for the formation of elected officials: the first, born in 1992, concerns only training related to the mandate of elected officials and is managed by the communities. The second, the individual right to the training of elected officials, is broader and includes trainings unrelated to the mandate, in particular to prepare for vocational reintegration. Under the 1992 Act, only elected officials with a delegation receive compulsory training during their first year of office. However, those elected without a delegation are still concerned with the vast and complex issues that are addressed in the deliberative assemblies, whether urban planning, health, city policy, local authority law or local finance. This is particularly the case for opposition elected officials, who often receive deliberations only a very short time before the councils and need to work quickly on all issues, while they are few in number and do not have the services of the community. Compulsory training should therefore be extended to all elected officials at the beginning of their term of office. Senators felt it was appropriate to maintain the cumulation of rights under DIFE, contrary to recommendation 8 of the IGA and IGAS report on this issue. We believe that this cumulation allows elected officials to concentrate their rights on more costly but sometimes more specific and adapted training courses – for example – to their reintegration project, while the non-cumulation of rights and the disappearance, by 31 December of the year, of non-consumpted rights would have had the merit of encouraging their implementation. In view of the very low rate of recourse to DIFE – out of 500,000 elected officials, 13000 use it – we believe it is necessary to make the use of this right to training compulsory for local elected officials at least once per term. Together with the mandatory follow-up of training related to the role of elected officer at the beginning of the term of office, this provision will mechanically increase the rate of recourse to the training of elected officials and the skills they can deploy during their term of office and in their later professional life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u50	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u51	Unfavorable opinion. Your amendment is largely satisfied with section 1 of the bill, which is intended to allow local elected officials to receive training in their first year of office. The obligation you wish to introduce seems to us to be contrary to the spirit of the DIFE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u52	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u53	In addition to the fact that, for reasons of timing, I would like to see this bill voted in conformity – I say so that everything is transparent – there is already mandatory training for all elected officials holding a delegation of office, as you have pointed out. Extending this obligation to all elected representatives would create an additional financial burden that prevents us from giving a favourable opinion on your amendment. If you agree to withdraw this one, I thank you, but intellectually, I fully understand your approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u54	Mr Lachaud, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u55	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u56	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u57	It aims to address the financial imbalance of the fund for the financing of the individual right to training by creating an over-contribution on allowances in excess of EUR 3500 per month. This fund, which finances the individual right to the formation of elected officials, has a chronic deficit which reached EUR 25 million in 2020, which prompted you, Madam Minister – apart from the questions of timing – to give an opinion unfavourable to my previous amendment. As IGA and IGAS recognize in their report on the formation of elected officials, the budgetary sustainability of the arrangements for the formation of elected officials "can only be preserved by maintaining an extremely low rate of recourse. As it stands, this rate of recourse is estimated at 3%, all devices combined, which is not acceptable in our Republic. The fund dedicated to the formation of elected representatives should therefore be maintained in order to guarantee the effectiveness of this right for the greatest number of people. Currently, DIFE is financed by a contribution of at least 1%, which will be levied at source under this order. We propose to retain this system, while making greater use of the local elected officials who receive the largest indemnities of office. The differences between an opposition elected official, with or without a delegation, who sometimes only receives 100 euros per month, and a full mayor, often vary from 1 to 50. This is a justice amendment that will not narrow the gap but will introduce more progressivity into the current system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u59	I am not in favour of the prior and automatic increase in the contributions of the elected representatives, which you propose to allow, you say, the balance of the fund for financing the DIFE. As you know, it is planned that the NCFEL will ensure the financial balance of this fund in the future; It would therefore be to anticipate his proposals to fix things in the way you propose. On the other hand, in my personal capacity, I am not convinced that so many elected officials receive 3,500 euros gross monthly, as you say, or that your proposal is sufficient to restore the desired balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u60	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u62	As you know, we have worked a lot with elected associations; the increase in contributions is a red line for them. If I want to respect the decisions we have taken in common with them, I cannot support your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u63	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u64	Mr rapporteur, I have never said that the proposed measure would return the fund to balance! I said that she would contribute and, you know, it's with small streams that we make rivers. On the other hand, I cannot intellectually accept that the legislator should once again divest himself of these issues in favour of a new committee, however deserving it may be. Legislators must have a say in the formation of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u65	Jacobin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u66	No, democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u67	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u68	It aims to establish a plan for the formation of the assemblies of Guyana and Martinique – at the municipal, departmental and regional level – within six months of their renewal, to inform the elected representatives and develop their formation. This training plan, referred to in Article L. 2123-14-1 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities as an opportunity given to IBDAs, must be more widely deployed and systematically implemented at the community level. A decision taken within six months of the renewal of the deliberative assemblies will enable an action plan to be drawn up for the duration of the term of office and to be discussed with all the elected representatives, both the majority and the opposition. This generalisation of training plans seems essential to us, as the role of local elected officials has tended in recent years to gain in technical skills, without this being reflected in increased voluntarism for the formation of elected officials. The study of the community's files concerns indeed broad fields, which must be deepened both by the elected representatives who have a delegation within the majority and by the whole deliberative assembly, especially in the opposition where counter-proposal work requires dealing with all the subjects in tense flow, often a few days before the council and in reduced number. Take the municipal example where the vast majority of local elected representatives are concentrated: a municipal councillor may have to deal with such broad and complex subjects as city policy, water management, urban planning, community law or local finance, without having at his disposal the technical expertise of the services, especially in small municipalities or for opposition elected officials. However, even though the diversity of the subjects covered requires very broad competences, training concerns only 3% of all elected officials. It should therefore be deployed much more widely and in a much less concentrated way, bearing in mind that today, 14% of the 13000 beneficiaries account for 50% of training expenditure. These training plans must therefore be deployed in all communities, as close as possible to local elected officials, to better inform them of their rights and to develop their training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u70	Mr Lachaud, I will be bold: I will ask you to withdraw your amendment. Why? The General Code of Local and Regional Authorities already provides that the competent assembly shall decide within three months of its renewal on the exercise of the right of training of its members and to this end determine the guidelines and appropriations to be opened for this purpose. It is also stated that a table summarizing the training activities of elected officials, financed by the community, is annexed to the administrative account. Finally, there is an annual debate on the training of community members. If there are communities that do not implement this right to training, the mechanism provided for in your amendment does not provide any additional guarantees in relation to the existing law. As regards the relevance of the content of the proposed training courses, the Ordinance of 20 January 2021 provides for the creation, before 1 January 2022, of a directory of training courses related to the exercise of the mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u71	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u72	The same opinion, because the amendment is already satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u73	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u74	For my part, I note that 64% of communities do not charge training expenses in their budgets, suggesting that they do not deliberate within three months on the subject. I would have been pleased to withdraw my amendment, Mr rapporteur, but I am not fully satisfied with your argument:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u75	I'm not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u76	...Unfortunately, the deliberation you refer to is essentially financial, without reference to a training plan. Similarly, the repertoire – we will vote for it because we think it is good that it exists – does not have the same scope as a specific training plan, formalized by a community. See the shade. As my amendment is not satisfied with your proposal, I cannot withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u77	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u78	We are here in front of the archetype of the bureaucratic mechanism. Recognizing that elected office is becoming more and more technical, complex and legal, we assume that elected officials must take training courses in order to assume them. We add a new deliberation which itself will require a new round of formations of the mayor's secretary, a specific training for the mayor, new formations to understand the formations, which will lead to the deliberation of a new declination, etc. This is an illustration of a technocratic mechanism. What will save the Republic from local elected officials, the place of politics in local communities, is efficiency and simplicity in the mandate. It is not a question of multiplying administrative and legal procedures, but of giving elected officials time to do their job: to think about the needs of the community and their communes. It's interesting what you're saying, Mr. Lachaud, but it's 1000 leagues from what you can think of the town council of Wildenstein or Wuenheim, communes in my riding, which have 250 and 800 inhabitants respectively. Taken into concrete concerns, the elected representatives of these communes find, after the association of departmental mayors, concrete training tools without engaging in bureaucratic processes that make them waste a lot of time and energy, and ultimately lead to wasting the taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u80	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u81	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u82	Minister, I have heard your wish that the text be adopted in accordance with that of the Senate. Don't worry, the three amendments I have tabled are appeal amendments: the text responds to a clear need for the formation of elected representatives and, you will not be surprised, I will take the example of Béziers to illustrate it. This week, the city offered to the new elected representatives of its city council, whether or not they have a delegation, a training that has enthralled them: read a budget; learn some techniques to speak in public; learning to discern and serve the common good – notions that it seems important to recall right now; knowledge of the powers and competences of local authorities – some new elected officials, as we can see, sometimes have some shortcomings in this area. This deletion amendment actually allows me to ask a question. The training of community members is a right that communities must of course respect. However, paragraph 2 of this article states that: "In order to finance training, the individual right to training may be supplemented, at the request of the holder, by a wealth of additional rights which may be financed by the territorial authorities". Why leave the choice to the municipality to complete its training offer for elected officials, when it is an obligation for it? There is a sort of contradiction, a paradox. I believe it would be appropriate to clarify the current wording, the vagueness and imprecision of which may be confusing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u83	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u84	Article 6 of the Ordinance of 20 January 2021 aims at a better fungibility between the two mechanisms which currently allow local authorities to participate in the financing of training provided to elected officials. That is why I am asking for this amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u86	We give municipalities the opportunity to contribute their participation to the DIFE account and thus to combine in order to facilitate the formation of elected representatives. There's nothing contradictory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u87	It's a plus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u88	There you go. I do not understand your amendment very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u89	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u90	Mr Schellenberger, I do not see what bureaucracy is required in a community to develop a training plan for elected officials. Let me make it clear that I am talking about all the elected representatives, including those of the opposition. In communities run by the Republicans, I know many of the opposition elected officials who are denied their right to training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u91	What are your internal mechanisms doing? It's up to your party to take care of this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u92	Let us move on to Amendment No 10. We propose to devote the right to inform elected officials about the formations they may have, by setting up a dedicated day at the beginning of their term of office. This amendment thus incorporates the first proposal of the IGA and IGAS report on the formation of local elected representatives. This would be a gateway to a wider range of competences, to be linked with our various amendments. Such a day, which should be organised in connection with the State services but also by mobilising the associations of elected representatives, would allow the elected representatives to be more aware of the existing arrangements, and in particular the DIFE, unknown by many and mobilized – I will never cease to say so – by only 13,000 of the 500,000 local elected representatives, mainly in the large communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u93	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u94	The amendment seems to us to be satisfied by Article 9 of the Order of 20 January 2021. As of 1 January 2022, each local elected official will be aware of the amount of the rights available to him, by accessing a service free of charge and managed by the CDC. The same service will also provide information on eligible training, ensure that training actions are taken over from registration to payment by the providers organising them. In fact, the Senate wanted to strengthen this mechanism in two ways: the dematerialized service will have to inform the local elected officials on the modalities of possible complementary abundance; The CDC will have to inform, annually, through the same dematerialised service of the personal training account, the local elected officials having the same account of the existence of DIFE. That is why I do not dare to ask for the withdrawal of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u95	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u96	Same opinion. As I said, I am very much in favour of the right to information. To complement the rapporteur's remarks, I would like to recall the formalised day in the law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, following the general renewal. I repeat that I am committed to mobilising the prefectures to do pedagogic work with the communities and to unlock situations in the event of a dispute. There are indeed cases – as I know – where some elected officials find it difficult to convince their executives to finance training. There is a need to mobilise the monitoring of legality that exists and must ensure that this is done. In short, this entire arsenal will be able to respond to your justified concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u97	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u98	Mr Questel, we must never despair: perhaps you should have asked for my amendment to be withdrawn,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u99	There's nothing to stop you from taking it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u100	...even if it is not fully satisfied because there is a difference between a dematerialised system and a solemn day with associations and training services. Let us think of the older elected ones who do not necessarily have the same digital appeal as some in this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u101	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u102	No, it's not a caricature! Do you claim, Mr Schellenberger, that the digital divide does not exist in this country? In this case, you don't know our regions well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u103	She's not necessarily generational!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u104	Can you, Madam Minister, commit yourself to ensuring that the prefecture takes into account the difficulty of access to digital technology for some elected officials when carrying out information campaigns? Such a commitment could prompt me to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u105	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u106	[[Applause on various benches]] As Cédric O is right next to me, I would like to remind you that the Government is doing a great deal of work on digital inclusion, deploying digital advisers throughout the country, especially in town halls where they can be made available to elected officials. However, the digital divide is not necessarily a question of generation. Although I am among the oldest in the Council of Ministers, I know how to use a computer. On the other hand, while some young people may have smartphones and be familiar with digital games, they are still unable to complete a file on the Internet. There must be no segregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u107	It's not new that Lachaud is a separatist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u108	In any case, digital advisors can meet the training needs of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u109	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2 to delete Rule 1d.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u110	This is a new appeal amendment. I wonder about the interest of CNFEL. He is responsible for formulating proposals to strengthen the evaluation of training, but I am concerned about its cost, as it will necessarily lead to additional public expenditure. Has a financial evaluation been made? Has a cost-benefit balance been drawn up? There is a risk that eventually training for elected officials will cost communities more. If you have answers to these questions, I am obviously prepared to withdraw the amendment, as I have withdrawn my previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u112	Mrs Ménard, if I were to use only one argument to ask for the amendment to be withdrawn, I would remind you that the order of 20 January 2021 does not create the CNFEL that has existed since 1992. I would add that his presidency and supervisory functions are held on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u114	Same opinion. Because CNFEL members are really volunteers, it costs nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u115	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, in support of Amendment No 6 on the additional Rule after Rule 1e A.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u116	We all know that the drifts of the formation of elected officials – fictitious formations sometimes carried out without the knowledge of the elected official, massive subcontracting, electoral training, formations with clearly overvalued costs – have benefited from the great opacity of the system. As the control of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations had failed, transparency seemed to be the most appropriate solution to avoid possible abuses. As far as public money is concerned, it seems indispensable. The aim of this amendment is therefore to strengthen it by obliging the Caisse des dépôts to publish, at least once a year, a table summarizing the training measures financed. It will include the names of the elected representatives, the title of the training, the name of the training organization, the cost of the training, its date and place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u118	I have indicated this in response to a previous amendment: the information requested will have to be included in the reports of the approved bodies. As your amendment is somewhat satisfied, I ask for its withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u120	I share the rapporteur's view all the more that CADA has made it clear that the information in question could be published. The transparency that you call for can therefore be ensured within the framework of the law in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u121	[[Smile]] The rapporteur and the minister are too strong! I'm returning the guns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u122	I take it that the amendment has been withdrawn, Mr Pancher.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, on the vote on the bill as a whole, I have before me a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to several amendments with additional articles after Article 4. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u124	This is once again a call amendment in response to a very pragmatic and unfortunately unreassuring need. Local and regional authorities, close to the French, can be confronted with Islamic radicalization. It seems important to me to propose to local elected officials – and even, why not, to impose on them – training to identify, prevent and combat this radicalization. My amendment is in line with the texts currently being discussed by this House. I am thinking of the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic and to combat separatism, or of the one on the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence. In addition, it is a strong and recurrent demand for local elected officials themselves who are at the forefront of this radicalisation, as is often the case with municipal police officers. It seems to me important to listen and hear their request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u126	The draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism, currently under consideration, creates a secular reference for each territorial community. This provision seems to us to be much more effective and relevant than the one you propose. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u128	It seems preferable to allow elected officials to choose the formations they consider most relevant – this is in any case the position of the latter and that of the Government. As you know, elected officials generally hold to their freedom of management, which extends to the choice of their formations. As far as radicalisation is concerned, wherever it comes from, many mechanisms for the training of officials and elected officials are put in place, for example by the inter-ministerial committee on crime prevention and radicalisation, which organizes numerous information and training sessions on the subject. In addition, some training bodies, approved by the Minister for Local and Regional Authorities, provide training on this subject. I would add that the national inventory of training related to the exercise of the mandate, as provided for in the Ordinance, will include, inter alia, the issue of prevention of radicalisation. I therefore do not think it is necessary to maintain your amendment, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u129	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u130	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, I understand that you want a fair vote. Don't worry, I'll withdraw my appeal amendment! I myself am particularly committed to the freedom of elected officials, Madam Minister, but I wanted to speak for myself, because they are increasingly concerned about issues of Islamic radicalization. I have quoted municipal police officers who are often with local elected officials on this subject in our regions; The news has shown it too often. It therefore seemed important to me to offer them specific training. Mr rapporteur, forgive me, but I do not believe that a secular referent is the most effective answer to this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u131	That's your point of view!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u132	Local elected officials are insistently calling for training to identify elements of radicalisation; I think it would be good to listen to them because it could produce better results than the existence of a single referent secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u133	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u134	It aims to study the revision of the composition of the CNFEL, by introducing a majority of elected representatives nominated by their peers as well as citizens, drawn by lot, responsible, inter alia, for ensuring the quality of training, the ethics of the bodies and elected representatives who benefit from it, in particular the question of living expenses. In the current state of the law, according to article R. 1221-1 of the General Code of Territorial Authorities, "the National Council for the Formation of Local Elected Persons shall consist of twenty-four members", at least half of whom shall be elected. The latter obligation would be removed by the order. In our view, on the contrary, it is necessary to strengthen the role of elected officials, who are primarily interested in matters relating to their formation and financing, and to ensure their diversity, independence and representativeness, by allowing them to appoint their representatives. In addition, it seems essential to us, given the importance of the prerogatives entrusted to the CNFEL, which citizens sit on. At a time when the latter's confidence in their elected officials, their skills and their ethics are being eroded, they should be involved as much as possible in these matters. By entrusting them, in particular, with the task of ensuring the ethics of the organizations but also of the elected officials who would benefit from reimbursement of costs, we will only be able to strengthen the quality of the trainings while reducing the abuses that have been observed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u135	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u136	Unfavorable opinion. The CNFEL, chaired by a local elected representative and composed of local elected officials and qualified personalities, is above all a technical body which unfortunately attracts very few vocations. The arrangements for designation that you propose therefore seem to us to be inadequate and, in this case, both too rigid and disproportionate to the reality of the work carried out by this council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u137	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u138	Same opinion. While it is true that we are reducing the number of CNFEL members from twenty to twenty, we have not changed the proportion of elected members who sit on the CNFEL.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u139	Mr Lachaud, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u140	I'm holding it. I do not agree with the rapporteur who explains that the role of CNFEL is only technical. This is no longer the case from the moment when the ordinance entrusts it with the management of the budgetary balance of the formations of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u141	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u142	We propose to study the creation of a specific allocation for the training of elected officials, in order to enable communities to comply with their legal obligations with regard to training expenses. In the current state of law, municipalities, departments and regions are required to budget between 2 and 20 per cent of the allowances payable to elected officials for training expenses annually. In most cases, however, this compulsory expenditure is not enforced. The General Inspectorate of the Administration, the IGA, tells us that 62% of the municipalities did not include any training expenditure in their accounts in 2018, so that the average amount of training expenditure is only 0.84% at the municipal level – far from the minimum ratio of 2%. The average expenditures of communities are particularly uneven in terms of size and budgets available to them. This expenditure is only EUR 19 per year for a municipal councillor, compared with EUR 370 for a departmental councillor and EUR 1140 for a regional councillor, while municipalities with more than 100 000 inhabitants spend 40 times more than municipalities with less than 2000 inhabitants. According to the IGA, "The level of spending per elected official is even lower as the community is small and has modest services to assist elected officials. Yet, on the contrary, the elected representatives of the less well-off communities, whether in terms of their budgets or services, should be better trained because they have the most training needs. Consideration should therefore be given to the creation of an allocation dedicated to training, directed towards the communities most in financial difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u144	Mr Lachaud, if no one denies the difficulty that you are raising, which is caused by the fact that too many communities, including communes, do not comply with their legal obligation to devote at least 2% of the total amount of staff allowances to the training of elected officials, I do not think it is up to the State to fill this gap. I believe, on the other hand, that the sharing of resources through, for example, intercommunalism can alleviate the difficulties encountered by smaller municipalities. In this sense, Article 7 of the Ordinance of 20 January 2021 provides that "within six months of its renewal, [...] the deliberative body of the public institution of intercommunal cooperation with own taxation shall deliberate on the desirability of proposing common tools aimed at developing the training linked to the exercise of the mandate of the elected representatives of the municipalities [...]". In general, I am not in favour of the multiple requests for reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u146	Mr Lachaud, we are proposing a text that would make it possible to clean up a situation that had been derived – some took advantage of the shortcomings of the law in force. What you say is very important and I am very attached to the principles that you set out. That is why, from the outset, I spoke of evaluation. Because I am well aware of the problems you are describing, I will, in the wake of the adoption of this text, commission a report on compliance with the obligation, sometimes not respected by the executive, to include training expenditure in their budgets. I am committed to examining the problem in all its aspects. As I have said on several occasions in this debate, I will use all possible channels, in the direction of elected officials, to ensure that the law on training – and therefore the rights to training – are respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u147	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u148	In light of the commitments made by the minister, we withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u149	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u150	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 63 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u151	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France (No. 3730, 4196).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u152	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u153	We are going to look at the bill on the issue, which I think is very important, of the interactions between digital and the energy and environmental transition. In this regard, allow me to share with you several convictions. The first, which I believe I have already had the opportunity to express here, is that there will be no environmental transition without a digital transition, for a reason that is finally quite simple, logical and even almost mathematical: we are evolving – and we are becoming more aware of it – in a world whose environmental resources, especially raw materials, are over. Faced with this, our consumption is intended, to a certain extent, to increase, again for a very simple reason: while one in four of the world's inhabitants lives on less than $3 a day and two thirds of humanity lives on less than $10 a day, we all have the social and human ambition to enable these people to reach the standard of living that we enjoy. We must resolve this environmental tension, which is reflected in democratic and economic tensions: it is a question of ensuring that the standard of living of all human beings continues to progress, until they reach that of the developed countries, even though the resources of the planet are, I repeat, over. We are therefore condemned, in order to succeed in the energy and environmental transition, to become much more efficient. There is, of course, another possibility: that of a very strict decline – because it cannot be limited. Personally, and I believe that many of us here share this view, however, I believe that this path would inevitably lead to economic, social and ultimately democratic tensions that would probably prove unbearable to our societies. If we want to succeed in the energy transition and, more broadly, the environmental transition, then we have no choice but to be much more innovative and to make digital one of the levers of the transition. Why is digital inescapable? It is simple: the field of information technology is governed by a well-known law, the mathematical theory of communication, which postulates that a system becomes more efficient as information is injected into it. Thus, the more a system is connected, the more efficient it is. This is where the contribution of digital technology lies: in efficiency gains. The term "digital" here refers to the ability to connect objects, to deploy new networks – I refer you to our debates on 5G – and to use the connection of objects between them to improve the energy efficiency of our systems. In this respect, to get down from the mathematical theory of the communication of information to much more prosaic questions, let us take the example of agriculture: I was recently in the beautiful Brittany region, represented here by some of you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u155	...where I was visiting a farm. By geolocating the tractors in charge of spreading and optimizing their movement by a few centimetres, the farmer managed to reduce his consumption of oil and plant protection products by 20%. Other examples show the effectiveness of these techniques. Thus, in Vendée, a maize farmer, installing hydrometric probes connected to the watering system in the soil and watering only when the soil moisture level justified it, managed to save the equivalent of fifteen days of watering per year. If we are able to multiply these few examples, to act in the same way in the areas of logistics, transport and industry – I would remind you that a connected plant consumes 60% less greenhouse gases – and to go even further in this direction, then we will have an extraordinary leverage to succeed in the environmental transition. That is why I am convinced – although I will have the opportunity to return to the efforts that the digital and electronic communications sectors must make in this area – that we must not oppose digital transition and environmental transition, but ensure that they feed on each other. However, digital players cannot, of course, refrain from improving the environmental performance of their operations: like all other sectors of the economy, digital must make efforts. It is currently estimated – I assume that others will advance these figures – that the number represents 5% to 10% of pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. Even if the progress is strong, let's start by reminding everyone of some basic data so that they know what they are returning from: for an individual, a return trip Paris-Nice by plane results in as many greenhouse gas emissions as two years of digital activity. If action is to be taken, then we need to know why we should keep it when we talk about the overall impact of digital pollution. That being said, we must of course act on the most important issues, that is, above all, on the question of electronic equipment. We will have the opportunity to stress this point: digital pollution, at present, is first and foremost linked, at 75% to 80%, to electronic equipment. While it is true that the increase in the volume of data creates additional pollution and that the possible consumption of telephone networks in elevators can create some collateral damage, the real challenge is first of all that of the rate of renewal of electronic elements, which we absolutely need to slow down: we are too often changing television, computer or mobile phone. Barbara Pompili and I had the opportunity last February to present the Government's digital and environmental roadmap. This plan is based on three main lines of action which are contained in this draft law, which has been the subject of very important work by the rapporteur, Vincent Thiébaut, whom I thank, as well as by the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Government Services. The first axis is to measure: between 5% and 10% of greenhouse gas emissions, there is a very large difference. We are not yet sufficiently aware of the real impact of digital technology on the environment and its determinants. This is why some measures aim to better estimate and measure, by giving institutions such as the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority (ARCEP) or the Environmental Transition Agency (ADEME), the tools needed to obtain the data that will enable the volume of digital pollution to be assessed and understood as it is. The second priority, to which I shall also return, is to promote awareness by our fellow citizens of the need to reduce digital pollution, or at least to improve the efficiency of our uses. On this issue, the actions of the Government and Parliament are obviously not limited to this text: I would remind you that you have introduced, in the framework of the Act of 10 February 2020 on the fight against waste and the circular economy, known as AGEC, an index of repairability, which seems to me to be an essential element in helping our citizens to become aware of the levers available to them, as consumers, in order to contribute to the extension of the life of terminals and electronic equipment, whatever they may be. Finally, we need to innovate. I had the opportunity to stress how essential it is that we invest even more in digital technologies linked to the environmental transition and that we support this ecosystem, which is one of the most efficient, job-creating and dynamic of the French digital sector. Barbara Pompili and I announced the creation of a €300 million fund dedicated to digital solutions for the environmental transition. We will continue to support these initiatives, which are an essential pillar of this plan. I will take a few minutes to revisit various elements of this bill. The Government hoped that constructive work would be undertaken with the Parliament. This has sometimes proved complicated – perhaps you will come back to it again – but I believe that on most of the points under discussion, if not all, we have reached a satisfactory balance. Many of the measures proposed are in line with the Government's priorities: improving the awareness and training of citizens and professionals, combating the planned obsolescence, supporting the objectivation of the positive and negative environmental impacts of digital technology, supporting data centers – data centres – more virtuous – I insist on this measure, which seems to me very important in the context of the growth of the data economy, regulation by data, the sharing of pylons in the context of the deployment of mobile networks throughout France, the latter being a priority of the Government, the fight against land speculation, etc. All these measures – we will return to them in a few minutes – we will support them. Other provisions adopted by senators have been satisfied since they voted on the text. I am thinking in particular of certain measures that came into force in the context of the application of the AGEC law, such as the definition of reconditioned goods or the integration of environmental criteria into public procurement. Others are in the process of being satisfied with the transposition of European directives, such as the one on the issues of software updates. It is therefore necessary to ensure coordination between the various texts and to avoid the appearance of duplicates with the orders currently being drafted – which we have been very attentive to with the draftsmen and draftsman of opinions and which will need to adjust the text adopted by the Senate. In this regard, there are certain provisions that cause difficulties: I have had the opportunity to say so to the Senate and many of you. The adjustments that we need to make – because I think many of us are committed to the quality of the law – concern, in particular, issues related to European law, such as reduced VAT rates. As I recall, France is calling at European level for a reduced rate on repackaged aircraft. However, to the extent that this legal provision falls within the scope of European law, it cannot be introduced into national law. We believe that, because this is a very important subject, we need to be demanding on the quality of what we collectively propose and that we need to adjust certain provisions that could create legal instability or that do not take into account the crucial security issues in computer environments: MP Bothorel is mobilized on this point. In agreement with the rapporteur and the draftsman, we will therefore propose that you amend, adjust or delete certain articles of the draft law – not too many, be without fear, Mr rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] In conclusion, I would stress that the convergence between digital and ecological transition is not a mode or a detail, but a requirement. I am convinced that this is now a fundamental element for the acceptability and sustainability of our public policies. The bill must allow us to go further by informing, raising awareness, creating collective intelligence, building together – at least I hope – this path of progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u156	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u157	Mr Vincent Thiébaut, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u158	At first reading, we are looking at the proposal for a law to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France. That has been said, this text comes from the Senate, and more specifically from a parliamentary mission that has been carried out in a rather new way. From this parliamentary mission, let us first consider two diagnoses. First, digital is a dead end to environmental and climate policies. Secondly, it is now difficult for us to measure the carbon impact of digital technology in France, which requires the development of tools to improve its assessment and which explains why awareness of this environmental impact is relatively recent. In this regard, in line with the Secretary of State's remarks, I stress the need for a balanced and measured approach, since digital technology avoids significant emissions of gases, particularly in the transport sector. Meeting by video conferencing – thanks to digital technology – rather than moving is indeed a substantial ecological gain. I will take the example that the Secretary of State often uses: for a user, a return trip Paris-Nice by plane has an environmental impact equivalent to two years of digital activity. However, these gains should not be offset by the direct and indirect impacts of digital technology on the environment. With more than 4 billion users and 34 billion terminals, this sector now accounts for almost 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions – with 15 million tonnes of CO released annually – and 2% in France. By 2040, it is estimated that digital emissions will grow by more than 60%, reaching 24 million tonnes of CO per year. It is therefore necessary that we adopt legislation to measure, control and even regulate the environmental impact of digital technology. On the basis of these findings, the text sets out different objectives, divided into five chapters: to make users aware of the environmental impact of digital technology; limit the renewal of terminals; the emergence and development of environmentally virtuous digital uses; promote less energy-intensive data centres and networks; and promote a responsible digital strategy in the territories. It should be noted that this bill is in addition to a set of regulatory or legislative measures that we have already adopted or are under review. I am thinking in particular of the AGEC Act and the bill to combat climate change and build resilience to its effects, which is currently being considered in the Senate. It was therefore necessary, in committee, to bring this draft law into line with these various arrangements and to take account of the European directives which are to enter into force in the near future in this field. This work will continue today in session. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all the Members who have attended the committee and to thank the Committee on Economic Affairs for their opinion. Our discussions have been rich, extensive and have made it possible to move the text forward. There is therefore first of all an issue of awareness and knowledge of the environmental impact of digital technology: this is the subject of the IER chapter. That has been said, we will be better trained, more aware of the ecodesign of digital services, as well as of digital sobriety. This will concern the youngest, in the school environment, but also our students in higher education, who will be the designers of the future digital systems. We will also have the important task of creating an observatory, which will equip us with the commonly accepted tools and benchmarks to measure and assess not only the environmental impact of digital technology, but also the benefits that this sector can generate and that are essential. Chapter II, which I believe to be the most important, deals with the renewal of terminals and their sustainability. Indeed, I would point out that 70% of the environmental footprint of digital technology comes from the manufacturing of terminals. It is therefore essential to make them more sustainable, to be repairable and well-used, and to fight against techniques designed to speed up their renewal. That is what we have done in committee by voting on Articles 6 and 7, which will enable us to combat the programmed obsolescence of software and, after a guarantee period, to be able to change operating systems to ensure the durability of the device. In addition, Articles 8 to 10 will allow us to move forward on updates and their reversibility, in connection with the European directives which will enter into force on 1 July next. Chapter II will also cover the reconditioning of appliances. Public procurement must play a role in promoting re-employment and recycling – subjects at the heart of the AGEC law that we have adopted. And there is also the big question of the private copying fee, on which I wish to make an aside. This subject has been the subject of long debates in committee, often very passionate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u159	Normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u160	... and who will certainly be again today. However, I would like to make it clear that the bill is not intended to try private copying: in any case, it will not be my objective as rapporteur. We must remain focused on the environmental footprint of digital technology and not on opposing environment and culture, which I think is sterile. Chapter III then deals with data centers – data centres – and networks, which operators are committed to making much more virtuous, especially from an environmental point of view. Chapter IV also deals with networks, in particular the sharing of antennas. Many points were raised in committee and we were able to enrich the text adopted by the Senate. As for Chapter V, it should enable us to mobilise local and regional authorities alongside us, in particular for the implementation of a responsible digital strategy. It seems to me to be very important and must include not only the environmental aspect but also the issue of social inclusion in digital matters, which is part of the objectives of sustainable development. Colleagues, this bill is balanced. While it is not the alpha and omega of reducing the environmental footprint of digital technology, it is unprecedented and needs to equip us with tools to better evaluate, measure and control it. It is fully consistent with the work we have been doing here for the past four years: I am thinking of the bill to combat climate change and build resilience to its effects and the AGEC Act. And it is also fully consistent with the measures taken by the Government, like the "Digital and Environment" road map, made public by Cédric O and Barbara Pompili. I am therefore very proud of this text, which provides a basis for work and which will enable France to take a leading position in Europe in this field. I hope that the draft law will have the same fate as the AGEC law, which is a reference law in Europe, and that it will encourage the European institutions to examine this issue more closely and even allow us to go further than the objectives we have set ourselves. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have a little more than 300 amendments to consider and I hope that we will do this work in the same spirit of harmony and transparency as the one that prevailed in committee. We have adopted more than sixty amendments from all quarters, and we have had very rich and very fruitful debates. I hope we have the same ones in session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u161	In the general debate, Mr Alain Bruneel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u162	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wishes first of all to welcome the initiative of the authors of this text. We are indeed looking forward to discussing the environmental impact of digital development and, with this text, to setting the first milestones in a strategy to curb the increasing contribution of digital technology to greenhouse gas emissions. Information and communication technologies as a whole account for about 10% of global electricity consumption. About 30% of this consumption is due to data center 30% to end-user equipment and 40% to telecommunications networks. According to forecasts, electricity consumption in the digital sector is expected to continue to increase by about 7% per year, due in particular to the development of online data storage. In addition to energy, digital equipment consumes a large number of metals, including a large number of rare metals. In Les Annales des Mines, researcher Françoise Berthoud recalled that "a simple smartphone alone concentrates a few dozen different metals, of which, at the end of their lives, at best, seventeen of them will be the object of valorisation until the stage of recovery of the metal itself". The manufacturing phase of the equipment needed to process the exchange of information – smartphone, computer, server, storage equipment, etc. – alone accounts for between one quarter and three quarters of their total environmental impact. The transport phase weighs on greenhouse gas emissions from air cargo, while the recycling phase is currently very poorly estimated. In the face of these developments, a consensus has emerged on the need to extend the duration of use of our equipment. There is also an urgent need to prevent the effects of the rebound in consumption, which could very quickly cancel the profits made at the manufacturing and reconditioning stage. The bill, and we welcome it, deals with the various aspects of the issue. It includes some welcome measures to combat programmed obsolescence and software obsolescence. We ourselves proposed a number of them in the discussion of the bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy. This text also reinforces the right to consumer information, in particular on subsidized mobile offers, but also on the environmental impact of video viewing, which accounts for 64% of data traffic on mobile devices. It creates a new obligation, that of ecodesign of digital online services, applicable to the largest bandwidth users. Finally, the text provides that operators will enter into environmental commitments with the Minister responsible for electronic communications. We support these advances, although we regret that the text does not go further. The senatorial information mission that inspired the bill had proposed to include the environmental impact of digital in the corporate social responsibility (CSR) balance sheet. However, this proposal has disappeared from the text. The mission also called for the introduction of a carbon tax at European borders. This measure is not a matter for the national legislature; However, we could have acted on the marketing authorisation to prohibit the importation of products with insufficient repairability. We will propose an amendment to that effect. Finally, the original text of the bill intended to frame the continuous distribution of videos through preventive adaptive measures concerning mobile packages with unlimited access to data. The ambitions have been revised downwards, and we regret that. We will propose, for our part, in a spirit that is intended to be constructive, to improve the drafting of the text on a few points such as the collection of digital waste, software obsolescence or the modalities of charging mobile packages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u163	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u164	The purpose of this bill is to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology. It is a useful text adopted at first reading by the Senate, which, based on the findings of its mission to inform about the environmental footprint of digital technology, has done a trans-passionate work that I welcome. The text is a continuation of the law on combating waste and the circular economy and the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. It complements them usefully and makes it possible to bring these various reforms into harmony and coherence with European law. The objective is to bring ecological and economic transitions together, which are only feasible in a functional interdependence and overall dynamic. It is structured around three priority areas. I welcome its unanimous adoption in committee, where we have had good debates and made good progress on which I will return. The first is to make digital users aware of its environmental impact and to encourage them through education to make good use of it. To this end, I welcome the introduction of the Digital Sobriety in Education and Training component, as well as the creation of the Digital Environmental Impacts Research Observatory attached to ARCEP – Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts and the Distribution of the Press – and to ADEME – Environmental Transition Agency. The second axis, not least, is to limit the renewal of terminals. Indeed, the manufacture and distribution of these materials account for 70% of the carbon footprint of digital technology in France. This figure challenges us and imposes a twofold objective: to combat effectively the planned obsolescence of hardware and software, and to encourage the reuse of tools through reconditioning and repair activities. It is this requirement that has fed our work in committee, thanks to the adoption of several amendments by the moving Republic Group creating new articles. For example, Article 7a prohibits the practices of issuers in the market that limit the restoration of all device functionality. Article 14a AA extends to reconditioners the benefit of non-discriminatory access to spare parts, instructions for use, technical information and any other instrument, equipment or software enabling the repair of products. The third axis is to bring about an environmental regulation that prevents increased consumption of emissions from networks and data centres, in order to promote environmentally virtuous digital uses. We will now defend two amendments on behalf of our group: in Article 12a(A), we will propose that you set up a return premium for individuals who will bring back their used equipment in order to encourage re-use and re-conditioning; In Article 26, we will also propose the development of a responsible digital strategy in municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation (EPCI) with more than 50,000 inhabitants. I am aware that Article 14 bis B on the payment of remuneration for private copying of reconditioned digital equipment will occupy part of our discussions. We will have the opportunity to go back in detail earlier. However, I think it is useful to recall several elements: it is not a question of opposing culture and ecology; We support both culture and ecology, but litigation is now under way and a solution has to be proposed. The compromise solutions that the Government will present earlier will allow for the first concrete answers to this requirement. The challenge is also to have reliable and objective data on a complex subject: the request for a report adopted in committee will allow a better understanding of the operation of the private copying system, the progressive evolution of its base and scale since its creation, and also the effective allocation of its revenues. Finally, it is essential to support the actors involved in the repackaging, particularly those from the social and solidarity economy. I welcome the Government's strong commitment to encourage and develop this dynamic, virtuous and job-creating sector. I know that Secretary of State Olivia Grégoire is very active on this issue and that new initiatives are under way. Ladies and gentlemen, with this text, it is absolutely not a question of making the French feel guilty for their use of digital technology. Our society needs this tool on a daily basis for businesses, telework, education, commerce or telemedicine, and digital has shown its added value in managing the crisis we have just experienced. That is why the deployment of digital technology throughout the country is a top priority that must be achieved by preserving the environment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] While it is true that digital is part of our lives as a vehicle for growth, innovation and competitiveness, this text proposes the search for a balanced approach between the different uses of digital technology and the protection of our environment. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have been doing with them for several weeks in order to arrive at a balanced text which includes important concrete progress for digital and the environment. This is the first time we have legislated to reduce the impact of digital technology on the environment. We can be proud: it engages us and compels us. For all these reasons, Members of the La République Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u165	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u166	We come together to defend a text that is both necessary and ambitious in order to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France. First of all, I would like to thank its editor, Senator Patrick Chaize, a member, like me, of the Superior Commission on Digital and Positions (CNSP), who is very committed to these themes. He was able to bring senators from different political groups together on the subject in a trans-party approach, and I hope that we can work in the same spirit in the House. At the origin of the approach, there was a finding and an objective. The observation is that digital technology and its uses are exploding in France as everywhere in the world; The unprecedented periods of confinement that we have experienced have come to remind us, quite rightly, of how much we need them. This development is essential for the ecological transition, in particular through the innovations it allows in the most polluting industrial sectors. However, these gains are associated with a direct and quantifiable impact in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, fisheries resource use, energy consumption and freshwater use. Our objective was therefore clear: to act without delay, to take the turn of the digital transition while ensuring that this sector essential for the ecological transition does not become a source of exponential pollution. The aim is to remedy the shortcomings of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, which unfortunately has only overshadowed the subject of digital pollution by offering serious and up-to-date expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u167	It's just a sparadrap!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u168	A simple figure, however, makes it possible to become aware of the need to be ambitious here: digital is 2% of our carbon footprint today, but potentially almost 7% tomorrow if we do nothing; In 2025, it is estimated that data centres will account for 20% of global electricity consumption and 10% of greenhouse gas emissions. If we do not now support the reconditioning of digital terminals or energy-efficient data centres, others will do so for us, and we will be out of date, all the more so as local initiatives are flourishing in our territories – I think, in Haute-Savoie, CoolLabs, which is developing a data center with no emissions of polluting particles, no CO, no greenhouse gases. In detail, the bill highlights five levers for action. The first is the awareness by digital users of its environmental impact, with an awareness at school from an early age; However, it will not be redundant with the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The text also provides for reliable and objective information for all through the creation of the Digital Environmental Impacts Research Observatory. The second lever is to limit the renewal of terminals, which are responsible for the carbon footprint of digital technology. In particular, it is a question of fighting the programmed obsolescence of software, but also against what we might call marketing obsolescence, which introduces a bias in favour of the too fast renewal of smartphones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u169	Chapter III, which is also the third lever, proposes to promote the development of environmentally virtuous digital use. The creation of a general repository of ecodesign to which the largest content providers will have to comply is essential: it is now possible to create such efficient sites with a quantity of data, and therefore of energy used, much less. Chapter IV, fourth lever, aims to encourage the creation of less energy-intensive data centres and networks. Finally, Chapter V, the last lever, aims to promote a responsible digital strategy in the territories. Our work in committee has made it possible to move the text forward with the adoption of several articles designed to supplement the regulation on programmed obsolescence, to encourage users to return their appliances to service in stores by means of a set-up system and to ensure that reconditioners have non-discriminatory access to spare parts. However, a few articles in the text have been deleted by the rapporteur, and we regret this: this is the case, in particular, of the tax credit for the sustainable digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is deeply needed, whereas only 63% of the very small French enterprises have a website, compared with 91% in Germany. This is also the case with Article 11 which proposed an increase in the legal warranty period for conformity for digital equipment and Article 11a which proposed rules on the quality and traceability of repackaged products. These articles are important and we are convinced that they have their full place in this text; That is why the Republican Group has decided to resubmit them in the form of amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u170	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u171	I would also like to return to what will certainly be one of the main subjects of debate, namely the question of whether or not the sector of the repackaged sector should be included in the cultural fee in Article 14 bis B. This is not a small debate: the actors in the cultural sector need our support, but their difficulty does not justify undermining another. The reconditioning works well in France, and it even allows digital nuggets such as Back Market to emerge. Especially since the figures are implacable: the gross amount collected for private copying remuneration for the rightholders increased in 2020 despite the crisis, from €273 million in 2019 to €295 million. The text provides for a formal exclusion – confirmed in committee – of the obligation to pay for private copying for repackaged products, including smartphones and computers, which have already been first placed on the market in Europe. So I can only subscribe to it. [[Raphaël Schellenberger applauds]] On this subject, let us try to make common sense prevail: we do not tax a product twice, let alone when we try to promote, through its reconditioning, the energy transition and the circular economy. We will therefore meet again to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u172	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u173	This bill is the result of a long work done in the Senate by Mr Patrick Chaize, whom I welcome on behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. The environmental impact of digital technology has thus far remained a blind spot in public policy. This text is therefore an opportunity for us, as legislators, to take up this matter and to allow for the establishment of a genuine national strategy to reduce emissions from this sector. By 2040, without action on our part, digital could be responsible for 7% of our greenhouse gas emissions. The main source of this carbon footprint is digital equipment – smartphone, computer, printer, screen, box, console and so on – which accounts for almost 81% of the sector's environmental footprint and its manufacturing, in particular, accounts for 70%. This requires an increasing amount of metals, still very little recycled. Extraction and refining also require large amounts of water and energy. With this text, the consumer will be better informed about the impact of these digital devices and, above all, it will be possible to limit the renewal of terminals and to create new environmentally virtuous uses. The Dem Group has defended several amendments in committee, which we welcome. they will allow the creation of a set-up for digital devices and a better deployment or redeployment of relay antennas as well as devices promoting the sharing of tower-type infrastructures. We also wanted to alert about the environmental impact of cryptocurrency. In this regard, I welcome the work of our colleague Frédérique Tuffnell. A bitcoin transaction would generate 122 kilograms of CO and would require the same amount of energy as nine U.S. households in 24 hours. The annual global mining of the only bitcoin alone represents Bulgaria's annual energy consumption. Our group will therefore be at the rendezvous to allow for further progress. At the initiative of Jimmy Pahun, we would like to add to the text provisions on electronic communications networks and the sharing of their infrastructures. Widespread digital coverage is a major issue in spatial planning policies. The deployment of telephone infrastructure, particularly in white areas, is essential to resolve the digital divide. We must take care to frame it to ensure its acceptability and rational organisation. We therefore propose to reinforce the obligations of operators to give priority to site sharing solutions where possible. We will also defend the creation of a "product passport" to improve consumer confidence in repackaged products and ensure the quality of equipment. This kind of grey map of the digital apparatus will, in particular, enable the State and the European Union to quantify the flow of functional equipment for reuse and to link it to the waste stream for recycling. Finally, we must not make Article 14 bis B and the private copying fee the subject of debate for or against culture,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u175	...for or against the environment, for or against the social and solidarity economy. Contrary to what many claim, the private copying fee is not a tax per se, but a consideration of the consumer's right to freely copy works on his device. Behind these works, there are artists to whom we owe a fair remuneration,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u176	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u177	... and to apply the same fee to new or repackaged products has a meaning because their use is identical. However, we must also encourage the re-use of digital devices, so as not to blow our planet further. How can we ignore the economic impact of such a levy on the repackaged products sector and more specifically on the social and solidarity economy sector? The Government's proposal to establish a differentiated fee seems reasonable and balanced, as it respects both the interests of the beneficiaries and the sectors concerned. We will have to further improve the system; I am sure that these debates will allow us to do so. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the various proposals from our group. We are convinced that innovation can and should be a lever of the ecological transition. Digital technology has also provided greater freedom, flexibility in many situations and has been a source of growth and employment. The innovations it has enabled are at the heart of improving our energy efficiency and the sustainable use of our resources. It is therefore necessary to take into account its environmental gains and effects, in order to reduce and control them better and to continue development through an ecology of progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u178	It was perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u179	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u180	In the preamble, I would like to recall that we are looking at this bill when we were unable to address digital and environmental issues at the time of the discussion of the bill to combat climate disruption and build resilience to its effects. Yet the need for legislation in this area is real and indisputable. As the Senate report on this text indicates, the rise of digital pollution will be "inexorable" if nothing is done to stop the current dynamics. Furthermore, as I said in committee, it is essential not to limit itself to emissions alone, but to take account of all the environmental problems associated with the development of digital technologies. Beyond the figures, we must also note the changes that have taken place in our society over the past thirty years. The digital revolution has profoundly changed our way of life, our relationship to others, to space and to time. The development of personal computers, access to the Internet and all its applications in the field of transport or medicine are a real chance. Digital is present everywhere in our lives. We must therefore learn to live with, by improving our understanding, our awareness of its effects on our lives, on the environment, from an early age. In short, we need to analyze our relationship to this new technology. Chapter I of the bill therefore insists on the training of children and young people, so that they acquire a real knowledge of the issues and develop a healthy relationship to this technology, through the concept of digital sobriety. Consumer information is an important part of this legislation and we are committed to improving this aspect and maintaining the provisions adopted by the Senate. Today, we almost all have an overpowering computer, 14 centimetres by 7, which we carry in our pocket and which gives us access to almost unlimited knowledge, connects us to our family, our friends, allows us to orient ourselves, to have a meal delivered, to order a taxi, and so on. More than five billion people use mobile phones around the world; several hundred million computers are sold each year. Some 80 per cent of the greenhouse gas emissions in the digital sector come from terminal manufacturing. This must lead us to act in three directions: improving the environmental efficiency of technologies; limit the renewal of terminals; strongly develop reconditioning and re-use. Several articles of the text are in this direction. Unfortunately, the Government wishes to return to an important measure, the reduction of VAT in the acquisition of repackaged products. We deplore it because their price remains decisive for many. There is also a need to develop large-scale repairability, which requires us to know the technologies used and, for manufacturers, to develop more accessible products. The issue of the availability of parts and their timing is essential to limit the renewal of terminals, extend the life of equipment and develop a different relationship to these technologies. As the writer Alain Damasio recalled in a recent interview published in the newspaper Le Monde: "When one does not have the ability to tinker, understand or appropriate the operation of a machine, one loses autonomy and the potential for emancipation. A technique that can no longer emancipate quickly turns against its user: it is she who will tell him how to behave. » To fight for the development of repairability and against the planned obsolescence of equipment is also to act on the social and geopolitical impact of this sector. The management of our waste is of central importance, in order to prevent used terminals from being found in huge landfills on the other side of the world, where people are exposed to pollution. I come to usages and techniques. In the 2010s, so-called social networks once again changed our social interactions. The economic models of the companies that launch them are based on the creation of strong dependencies on the objects and services allegedly offered free of charge. The legislator must formally protect the consumer from practices harmful to his health and his thoughts. In the face of digital giants, we cannot be naive and simply raise awareness and support. In our view, it is therefore essential to include in the law the prohibition of scrolling – scrolling – infinite or autoplay, for example. Finally, the Government's plan to replace the obligation of eco-design of sites with the creation of a general benchmark for the eco-design of digital services, which could serve as a basis for voluntary implementation of good practices, could not be acceptable, as insufficient. I would like once again to thank the various NGOs – non-governmental organisations – with whom we have worked on this very technical text. While it is an essential first step towards general awareness, we must not restrict its scope in the light of environmental and social issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u181	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u182	Although digital technology is a sector of major innovation, which benefits from the energy and ecological transition, let us not let it be subtracted from our necessary reflection on how to reduce the ecological footprint of different parts of our economy. Indeed, as virtuous as its uses are, digital, like all other activities, consumes energy, and contributes to the emission of greenhouse gases. As the rapporteur has already indicated, it currently accounts for 2% of these and 4% of the world's primary energy consumption. When we know, a fortiori, the place that this sector takes in the daily lives of our citizens, our businesses, our public services, our communities and its prospects for growth, increased by the global pandemic and the health crisis, it seems appropriate to lay the foundations for the most sober and sustainable development of its uses. That is the purpose of Senator Patrick Chaize's bill, which we welcome and which is part of the continuation of the bill to combat climate change and strengthen resilience to its effects, adopted a few weeks ago by the Assembly at first reading, but also of the so-called AGEC Act. Among the first objectives of the text are to improve our knowledge of the real environmental footprint of digital. The observatory provided for in Article 3 must make it possible to draw up a net balance sheet – I insist, net – by assessing the gains of digital technology. Are these gains only "potential"? We have already had the debate in committee and I understand that some people fear the deletion of the adjective, even if personally, I hope that their character is not hypothetical but very real. It should therefore be pointed out that behind the term "potential", it is indeed the future, real gains, perceptible – the Secretary of State recalled some examples, if only in the agricultural sector. These data are fundamental to objective public policies in this area, to assess the effects and to prevent those that threaten our ecological transition path. All groups will therefore have to agree on these. The observatory must identify all the issues and be as transparent as possible. That is why I will propose by way of an amendment that we also open it to the public. Our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group have also put forward a proposal to this effect in committee. As we look at this text, our approach is increasingly participatory, an approach that must be found at the heart of the observatory by incorporating a citizen's perspective. The observatory is also a good lever for measuring the dual environmental and health impact of digital technology. That's another lead I'll offer you. We must also take into account the impact of digital usage on behaviour, from an early age, but also on a daily basis, for all adults. As we see in the transformation of our consumption patterns, digital has measurable effects, both in school and in the professional world. The main cause of digital pollution is its overconsumption. Therefore, the average duration of terminals should be taken into account. The issue of 24 months' commitments is a matter of concern to me. Although recent studies appear to show that there is no correlation between 24 month commitment contracts and digital pollution, a cluster of indices appears to show the opposite. This leads us to longer-term reflections on the systematizing effect of these contract renewals, which lead to the renewal of the tool. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. I also agree with what has been said earlier with regard to article 14 bis B. We are not here to redo the text on the private copying fee. I would be happy if we could find a middle, consensual way. I hope we can do that. We support the Government's amendment. A proposal was also made by two groups of the majority by means of a sub-amendment which I think is very sensible. Of course, we do not want the provision in question to apply to the detriment of the cultural sector or to apply it to the detriment of the small ones, those who make the social and solidarity economy. We will therefore be fully prepared to support the proposed avenues. Finally, our colleague Luc Lamirault will defend amendments on the sharing of networks. We have not yet found a solution to this question, Secretary of State. Territories, particularly in rural areas, suffer and are concerned about the increasing presence of towers, antennas, the health risks involved and the visual pollution they may represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Sage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u184	[[Mr Vincent Thiébaut, rapporteur, applauds]] A certain degree of vigilance is therefore required and we will be presenting amendments in this respect. Overall, we will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u185	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u186	Members of the IDU and independent group believe, like many of you, in the virtues and benefits of technological progress to which digital technology contributes, which offers almost infinite prospects. It makes it possible, in particular, to optimise procedures, to save time, to free oneself from certain tasks that were once time-consuming. It also makes it possible to regain certain territories away from services to the public, or to optimize public services. What would the vaccination campaign have looked like without Doctolib or Vite Ma Dose, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u188	It is also useful to remember that it is often the most advanced society in the field of technology that ends up imposing its reference to values on others. That is why we are very opposed to the speeches of the supporters of the decline. However, we know that, and this has been pointed out by several speakers, drifts can occur, which could harm consumers and workers. Cybercriminals or large companies can abuse the personal data collected. It is therefore incumbent on the legislator to supervise and regulate these practices. Digital technology is also a great accelerator of the energy and ecological transition, thanks to the various environmental gains that it allows – provided, again, that it has a clear vision and that it keeps control of the situation. Optimizing the allocation of resources involved in the ecological transition will only be made possible by a digital transition based on efficient networks. Digital technology has thus become indispensable and, at the same time, a source of fragility in the face of the various cyber threats. Here I would like to commend the work of the National Information Systems Security Agency (ANSSI), which is working on an ongoing basis to protect our various systems for providing basic public services. However, digital technology can only deliver on its promises if it is decarbonized upstream. That is the whole purpose of this text and our proposals. Through this digital world, we are indeed responsible for many greenhouse gas emissions, pollution and energy consumption. There is an urgent need to reduce them and frame them so that part of the population does not start to reject digital in general. For this, an important pedagogy effort is needed – I am thinking here of the introduction of 5G. The IDU-I group's philosophy is to encourage, frame, regulate, but not stigmatize or prohibit without proposing a credible alternative. We therefore find ourselves in the bill of Senator Patrick Chaize of the Republicans Group. The aim of this text is to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology from the moment of design of the products, services and installations concerned, as well as to encourage the various actors to engage in this process through common reference tools. We support strong measures such as the tax credit for the sustainable digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the reduction of the environmental footprint of data centres and support for reused and recycled products. That is why we propose to reinstate section 5 which introduces this tax credit. The crisis of the covid-19 has shown us that it is essential to have a dense fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises capable of reacting quickly and adapting to different situations. We must therefore help them in their digital transition so that they can equip themselves with the best tools. The majority of the members of our group are also in favour of maintaining Article 14 bis B on remuneration for private copying, so as not to penalise the repair sector taxably. I am thinking of our colleague Valérie Six, who actively supports this measure. Of course, we will have an opportunity to discuss this with the Minister of Culture. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, we welcome the work of our colleague, Christophe Naegelen, on the supervision of the call-up – a practice of which many of our fellow citizens are victims and complain. After almost a year of implementing the law of 24 July 2020, we are pleased that the Commission has adopted the proposed corrective measures. These will, on the one hand, clarify international roaming situations for which legitimate calls should not be filtered, while clarifying the territoriality of the numbers in the French numbering plan and the filtering of calls from abroad with a French caller ID. On the other hand, they will define the notion of an automated call and message delivery system, while enabling ARCEP to prohibit the use of certain conventional numbers – type 0102 or 0607 – as the caller identifier presented to the caller for calls or messages issued by such an automated system. In conclusion, the IDU and independent group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u189	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u190	Digital technology holds promises of dematerialization and infinite growth. Yet its impact on our planet is very real. It is already responsible for 2% of greenhouse gas emissions in France. And the race to power, with the transition to 5G, the development of blockchain and big data, is likely to increase this footprint ever more if we do not put it, first of all, at the service of the common good and, first of all, at the service of the ecological transition. The challenge is to move from click to click, and to move the digital industry no longer to overconsumption – which we have known for twenty years and which has accelerated in recent years – but to serve the challenge of this century: the preservation of the environment and the preservation of a living planet. We're still a long way from it. The issue of the sector's environmental footprint is dealt with only at the margin in public policy. 5G frequencies were assigned without prior environmental impact assessment. The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects only refers to the transition of digital technology. The road map presented by the Government does not provide sufficient guarantees for reducing the climate impact of the sector, as explained by the High Council for Climate. This bill could fill this gap, however, provided that the original ambition of its authors is not diminished. On this point, the examination in committee, as well as the numerous amendments to abolish and rewrite comprehensively advocated by the Government, do not bode well. In committee, the majority voted for the abolition of Article 5, which introduced a tax credit on the sustainable digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, on the grounds that it would create a boon effect for some providers. From the effects of a boon, there are already some... It would have been in our interest to maintain this provision in that it would address a twofold challenge for these economic actors: digitisation and ecological transition. I would even add: that of economic performance. I recall that this provision was one of the recommendations of the report that I had submitted, at his request, to the Minister of Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs Emmanuel Macron in March 2016, report on the national strategy "France Logistique 2025", which he had subsequently presented and defended in the Council of Ministers. It must be noted that this is no longer relevant. Similarly, I regret that the Government tabled an amendment at the sitting to reconsider the extension of the value added tax (VAT) to 5.5% on the purchase of reconditioned electrical and electronic products and the repair of digital terminals, introduced by Article 14. However, this article was a real step forward for the repackaged sector, which could be weakened by the deletion of Article 14 bis B. By planning to apply private copying to the repackaged sector, the Government is creating unwelcome opposition between two fragile sectors, one emerging and the other deeply affected by the crisis. On the contrary, you would have been honored to find another way out – a discount, or a contribution from the major digital platforms – to compensate for the presupposed decline in future copyrights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u191	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u192	A change in the tax paradigm, based no longer on storage alone, as is the case today, but on the flow and stock in the cloud, appears necessary. However, much of the provisions of the text are in the right direction. I am therefore very much in favour of those aimed at limiting the renewal of terminals, which are responsible for 70% of the total carbon footprint of French digital technology. Article 8, which aims to separate the corrective updates from the progressive updates, responds to a long-standing request from my group, which was already defending this possibility during the discussions on the AGEC law. The introduction of a directive on the purchase of goods with digital elements is also a step in the right direction. I will also propose to extend it to include computer, electrical and electronic connections, in the continuity of several years of proposals on this subject on my part. I am also sensitive to articles that aim to increase user awareness of the environmental impact of digital technology. The creation of research observatories in this area, which is endorsed by all stakeholders, will provide reliable information. Local authorities also have a role to play in supporting and integrating the most beneficial digital innovations into sustainable development while limiting their impact on their territories. Article 26, which calls on local elected representatives to present a sustainable digital strategy, is in line with this, as well as Article 25 which provides for the recovery of heat from data centres and its inclusion in the territorial climate-air-energy plans (PCAET). It's been almost four years since we proposed it... It will have to be expanded anyway. We are moving forward – slowly, but we are moving forward. The challenge for us is to converge the ecological transition and the digital transition. The text could be a first step towards this goal, provided that its ambition is not reduced during its examination – a point on which I alert you. However, we will need to go further, in particular to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology and to mobilize the sector's potential for the ecological transition and transformation of society. I think in particular that we need to reactivate the strategy "France Logistique 2025", which proposed very clearly: "To make the digital transition a vector of logistic performance; [use logistics] as a lever for industrial transformation and energy transition policies. It was, I repeat, Minister Emmanuel Macron who presented it in March 2016. It was under the government of President Emmanuel Macron that we destroyed it. We're five years late.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u193	It was thanks to Emmanuel Macron that you were elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u194	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u195	There's an emergency! Climate disruption has begun, resolute action is needed to limit greenhouse gas emissions and the destruction of the only ecosystem compatible with human life. We cannot be content with good declarations of intent and non-binding measures. We don't have time anymore. In terms of tackling the environmental footprint of digital technology, as in other areas, the causes must be addressed, not the consequences. It is necessary to act at the level of production and not to offer incentives to consumers who, in any case, cannot choose options that society does not offer them. The bill makes progress in digital sobriety education and programmed obsolescence – including software obsolescence. It introduces a directive for digital elements, promotes the re-use of public equipment, promotes reconditioning and creates obligations to display the digital footprint. All this may be very useful and important, but the already very few normative elements were deleted when the text was examined in committee. The extension of the legal warranty period has also disappeared. In short, this text will allow some progress and above all serve to give good conscience. Of course, the subject of the text cannot really be dealt with by way of an amendment since the rabid scissors of The Republic on the move – which decrees out of the question everything and anything – have yet to be resolved. Artificialization of soils to build servers, out of subject; Starlink's light and space pollution, after a collision with a European Space Agency (ESA) satellite was narrowly avoided, off-the-spot; sustainability index, excluding subject; extension of the repair index to all electrical and electronic objects, excluding subject matter. The issue of imported emissions is not addressed, while imported emissions increased by 78% between 1995 and 2018. We relocate digital pollution, which will not be affected by this bill. The amendment on the 5G moratorium, which is admissible in committee, is inadmissible in committee. Definitely, with the arbitrariness in motion, go understand! The environmental policy of digital technology must be a social policy because, for the poor, the elderly, who live in rural areas – these criteria being cumulative – it is the double penalty. Not only do they no longer have access to public service counters because they no longer exist, they also do not have access to digital counters because of lack of access to the Internet, because they do not know how to use them, because it costs too much. As a result, people are excluded from access to public services: 13 million French people are affected by illiteracy. According to the Defender of Rights, 15 per cent of the population does not have good quality Internet access. High-tech polluting for some, social relegation and galley for others, this is the result of an anti-social ecology. Dematerialization is a decoy. People no longer have access to a physical window, it is true, but the digital window requires a large amount of raw materials and energy; It is far from being ecological. Terminal manufacturing has a significant environmental and social cost and accounts for 70% of digital carbon footprint; But now we're not doing anything. Marketing increased by more than 48% between 2017 and 2020. The average renewal of a telephone is 24 months in France; It should be at least five years if we want to live on one planet. Heavy metals and their extraction have a very serious impact on the environment. Extraction generates greenhouse gases and requires large amounts of energy. It also contributes to the pollution of the water resource due to the products used. The recycling of heavy metals is very limited and their extraction poses sovereignty problems. We will come back in the course of the discussion on the private copying fee for reconditioned devices, but as a prerequisite, we must not oppose culture and ecology – as in all things. It is not one or the other: it is necessary to preserve the culture and to give the means to this sector while planning the ecological forklift, in particular by reducing the creation of new terminals. The Government, in a state of embarrassment, wants to propose a new gas plant with a cheque of 10 euros, to try to please everyone. It is a complex system, with at least one insurance, that of non-recourse. We will therefore defend the exemption from the fee for repackaged products. The group La France insoumée defended the creation of a common public domain to guarantee social protection for all workers of art. We have proposed the creation of a National Centre of Author Artists and a creative support fund. Alternative solutions exist: you have refused them. In short, this text amounts to emptying the ocean with a little spoon: we don't have time and it's no use. We are for a popular ecology and ecological planning of digital jobs as well as the rest of the economy. Let's engage the ecological bifurcation of our production methods, it's urgent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u196	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u197	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u198	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u199	[[Smile]] This is a cache-sex bill that we have here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u200	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u201	The Republic on the move is caught in a contradiction: when we promote the "start-up nation", we want to go towards 100% digital public service, towards distancial campuses, and so on. The problem is that, in concrete terms, everything is not dematerialised: it is matter and energy. So we have to find some little tricks to fix this. Article 1 proposes to push digital to the full.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u202	You didn't read the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u203	We're gonna leave the ads everywhere for the new iPhone, for Samsung, for Huawei; We're preparing the 6G – because it's coming; we continue to consume and over-consumption. But it will be up to the school to educate children about environmental impact and digital sobriety!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u204	We're putting the school back at the centre of society!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u205	We're tired of that reasoning! It's the same for everything: you let the level of mud rise, trouble, trouble, and then you say it's up to school to do prevention. On food, on secularism, on the environment, it is always at school that we rely on it; It's also at school to do financial education! On almost every subject, the school is asked to do everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u206	You don't believe in school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u207	All the moose is allowed to flourish in society and the school and teachers are then asked to scoop into the heads of the children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u208	We believe in school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u209	You don't believe in school, you use it as a decoy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u210	For you, everything is lure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u211	... as a pretext for not acting on the causes themselves and on society itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u212	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u213	On the one hand, it aims to clarify that awareness of the digital footprint will be offered throughout schooling, on the other hand, that the environmental impact will be extended to the social impact, both of which are inseparable for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u215	You are proposing to add the social impact of digital technology to the environmental impact throughout school. Social impacts are inextricably linked to environmental impacts. However, I do not think it necessary to add the reference to social impact in the law: it is explicit. For reasons of legal consistency, the wording adopted in committee, which refers to Article 2 of the Law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, should be taken into account in Article 1. You also want awareness to take place throughout the course of schooling: it seems to me to be self-evident, without the need to make it clear in the legislation. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u216	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u217	It was proposed by The Shift Project and received full support from the Libertés et territoires group. It is intended to supplement article 1 with the following sentence: "... upon entry into primary school. The ambition of Article 1 must concern pupils from elementary school and adapt to the consumption habits of the digital tools of each age class. It could be said that this is meaningless. But it seems to me, to see the drifts of children with immoderate use of digital tools – when they are not completely lost – that it is not possible to rely solely on parents, sometimes overwhelmed for a thousand and one reasons. The space in which we wish to build a common idea of society is the space for public education. It seems to me very useful to adapt Article 1 so that it specifies that teachings, from primary school onwards, must adapt to the age class and the uses of digital technology. This precision may be superfate, but messages clearly inscribed in the law can lead to positive awareness among our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u219	Very unfavourable opinion, for the reasons already mentioned. Moreover, I am quite surprised: you want to put the children behind screens from primary school, while an accompaniment is carried out, especially in the colleges, to try precisely to limit their time of use. Our colleague Ruffin told us that everything cannot be within the jurisdiction of the school, and you, you want to put the children behind screens from primary school! Let's be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u221	Same opinion: very unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u222	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u223	Mr rapporteur, I do not know whether you have read the amendment in its hard copy or in its digital version, but I invite you to read the paper version; This will allow you to understand that his objective is the opposite of what you said. Either we start our discussions with mutual respect, or they will be very muscular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u224	Is that a threat?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u225	This amendment does not concern the use of digital technology, but sobriety. We ask that this be discussed from primary school onwards, by adapting the discourse to the age groups. Perhaps you have never seen any children of today, especially the younger ones, seeing their sometimes deviant behaviour – sorry to use this term –, their immoderate use of screens, because the adults around them – and I include myself – are sometimes unable to react and explain to them the need to keep a distance from digital. Maybe you haven't seen them, these kids; I see them. The common space that schools represent is paramount and the amendment, taking up the work of an association that we all respect – The Shift Project – seems quite appropriate to the will that we intend to translate into this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u226	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u227	I am going to go in the direction of our colleague François-Michel Lambert and reassure him. The subject it addresses is essential: by regularly intervening in schools, one realizes that the majority of students – sometimes 100% – from the class of CM2 have an account on a social network. It is therefore important to raise awareness of this issue at an early age. But one thing you may have missed, Mr Lambert: your request is already met. We have incorporated it, on the proposal of Inès Leonarduzzi, into the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. Digital sobriety education is planned from primary school onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u228	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u229	The law has not yet been enacted, but this is a good point. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory, but I share your view on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u230	Thank you for that clarification, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u231	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u232	Children sometimes use digital tools at school, but they use them mostly in the family. This is a reality, and the school has a role to play in making them aware of the questions posed and in developing their critical thinking in the face of the information to which they have access by this means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u233	Do you maintain your amendment, Mr Lambert?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u234	I very much thank our colleague Pierre-Alain Raphan for reading and understanding the amendment that I was defending, and for recalling that the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects already provides an answer to this question. For having taken part in the examination of the text, I know that his remark is correct. Our will is the same, so I invite everyone to move forward to co-build the future: digital is the future, the one we prepare for our children. In a constructive, appeasement spirit, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u235	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u236	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-10-O1298.u237	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France. The meeting is adjourned.
