ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft amending finance law for 2021 (No. 4629, 4659).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u3	This second amending finance bill – PLFR – for 2021, known as the "end-of-management" bill, confirms the validity of the Government's strategy for supporting the economy and the public most affected by the crisis. It marks a marked improvement in our public finances and shows control over public spending, illustrating the good balance in our economic and budgetary policy. As the crisis ends, we can state loud and clear that Parliament and the Government have met the challenge: we can collectively turn proudly over the past two years. This is the first idea I want to defend in front of you. Indeed, in the face of the health, economic and social emergency, the joint action of Parliament and the Government was able to find quickly the effective, necessary and proportionate solutions to protect the economy and the French. We started by supporting businesses as well as households. The Solidarity Fund has enabled more than 2 million companies to break the budget deadlock by mobilising the equivalent of EUR 37 billion. State-guaranteed loans, or EMPs, deployed for EUR 141 billion, benefited 690000 companies. As announced by the President of the Republic, they will be extended until 30 June 2022. I will also propose an amendment to that effect. The main tax deadlines have been postponed to consolidate the short-term cash flow of the professionals: in total, the carry-over amounted to 3.6 billion euros, which helped the companies. By supporting businesses, the Government had sought to maintain employment and preserve skills. We have saved the rebound capabilities of our economy. Labour costs were largely covered by the State through the partial activity scheme, which involved almost 9 million employees at a total cost of 42 billion euros, of which 35 billion were borne by the State budget. At these difficult and unforeseeable times, Parliament has fully assumed its role. In this respect, I will mention two key points which illustrated the unity and coherence of our response to the crisis in the year 2021. On 12 May 2021, first of all, the Government presented to you a draft decree in advance allowing the redeployment of €7.2 billion to partial activity and solidarity funds; On the same day, your commissions issued an opinion and the order could thus be issued very quickly, on May 19. In this way, you have helped to enable the Government to respond urgently to a darkening economic situation. Also aware of the economic and social urgency, you renewed your support for the review of the first amending finance bill for 2021, which provided $9.8 billion for the Mission's Emergency Plan arrangements. In view of the efforts made, we can collectively be proud of the results of joint economic action. Today, the situation is different and we must pursue with caution and pragmatism the gradual extinction of emergency measures. Thus, the arrangements of the Solidarity Fund, the exemption from social contributions and the partial activity have been gradually refocused since the summer of 2021, as the activity resumed and the needs diminished. They are now removed or focused on the most difficult companies. Bruno Le Maire and I have announced the end of the fixed cost scheme. This is one of the reasons why we propose to cancel more than EUR 2 billion of unconsumed emergency appropriations for the year 2021. Once the emergency had passed, we embarked on a turning point: the revival, with a stimulus plan of more than $100 billion over two years, which was debated during the consideration of the 2021 finance bill. Why? To revive the economy and enable it to respond quickly after a historic crisis. In what way? By giving priority to the actions most useful to our country's economy. This is, first of all, the energy transition. We collectively, Government and Parliament, committed to mobilizing $30 billion for greening our economy and energy transition. MaPrimeRenov'or ecological bonus have become emblematic features of this policy. All actors are mobilized in this collective effort. For example, of the 4,214 government buildings we have planned to renovate, more than 2,500 have already undergone energy renovations. The industry was able to benefit from state support of 700 million to support its investments in less carbonised production processes. Secondly, we have given priority to the competitiveness of enterprises, with a total of 34 billion credits, in particular to support for export or investment and the modernisation of the economy. Thirdly, the social and territorial cohesion of our country has been and remains one of the priorities of the recovery plan. In this respect, it is emblematic that no less than 800,000 apprenticeship contracts have been concluded to boost local employment within the framework of France Recovery. Since the first stone of the recovery plan was laid, our efforts have not weakened. I see this every week when I travel to the local actors, the recovery is being carried out today with strength and speed. In line with our commitments, at the end of this year we will have committed $70 billion out of the €100 billion planned for recovery. Even more striking: the economic results are at the rendezvous. While our objective was to return to our pre-crisis level of activity next year, we exceeded that objective. As well as the youth employment rate, unemployment also returned to its level at the end of 2019 and even at the end of 2007, which is the best result in 14 years. In this period of support for the economy, we have never forgotten that the crisis has hit the most fragile audiences. We can be proud to have supported the economy as a whole, but also all our fellow citizens – resourceless students, interim students, intermittent students, unemployed people and all the other faces of precariousness, which have been at the centre of our debates and our concerns. Even today, the imbalances caused by the crisis remain relevant and threaten some of our fellow citizens in particular. That is why the amending finance bill that I am presenting to you accompanies the State's protective actions towards the people most in difficulty, in the continuity of the measures taken so far. We wanted to combat inflation and the difficult endings of months: that is why this text takes note of the inflation compensation announced by the Prime Minister. All our fellow citizens – wage earners, self-employed, pensioners, unemployed, recipients of social minimums, scholarship students – receiving less than 2000 euros net monthly, will receive this benefit in the amount of 100 euros. This measure will be effective because it is simple to apply. It was the simplicity, the speed, the automatic nature of the benefit of this allowance that guided us when we built the parameters of the method by which it would be paid. This inflation allowance is of course in addition to the exceptional energy check of EUR 100, which will benefit 5.8 million households, at a cost slightly less than 600 million. The specific support given to some of our compatriots does not stop at inflation compensation, which is part of a broader package. For example, EUR 15 million for the financing of the baby box, which accompanies households during the first thousand days following the birth of their child by providing them with the necessary equipment for the proper running of this key period for a child's life. In order to help those who need it most, this measure will target the priority areas of city policy and the areas of rural revitalization. I will also mention the appropriations for the freeze plan, which will be financed by this text in order to support farmers in the face of the hazards of climate change. With EUR 500 million proposed on the Agriculture mission, we will continue the commitment made by the Head of Government to mobilise EUR 1 billion to support farmers affected by the consequences of last spring's freezing episode. Finally, we are undertaking a series of measures aimed at young people, including the increase, financed in this text, in the amount of scholarships for all levels since the beginning of 2021, or the financing of crisis measures – I am thinking of psychologists' consultations, tutoring or the provision of certain materials, such as sanitary protections. I would also like to highlight the attention and support given by this amending finance bill to local and regional authorities, in line with all the financial texts that we have submitted to Parliament. It provides €800 million in repayable advances to Île-de-France Mobilitys, after €1.2 billion in 2020, and €200 million in grants. This may be what some call "burning the caisse", but it is useful help and those who blame us are sometimes the first to ask for state assistance and the release of credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u4	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u5	We also expect EUR 400 million of the call for clean-site public transport projects for the mobility organising authorities, as well as the strengthening of the fund for the rehabilitation of wasteland, for 400 million, in order to meet the commitment of doubling this plan for which a second call for projects is under way, the continuation of the plan Montagne with 170 million, the abundance of the stabilization fund of the departments to raise it to 200 million, as we had committed to it, and additional funding of the masked endowment, to which we had also committed ourselves to cover all applications for reimbursement from the communities. Even if it does not concern this PLFR, I would add, with regard to support for the communities, that I will propose to you this evening or Friday an amendment to extend, for fiscal year 2021, the specific support scheme for the authorities operating industrial or commercial services, as we had done for fiscal year 2020 on the occasion of the PLFR in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u6	That's a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u7	This Government is therefore the government of support for household purchasing power, which is targeted as much as possible to those who need it most. I come to the second idea that I want to defend before you: this finance bill once again illustrates our fiscal seriousness, including in times of crisis. First of all, the Government's strategy has allowed for a very strong rebound that mechanically reduces the burden of deficit and debt on our GDP. The improved macroeconomic outlook illustrates and confirms the effectiveness of the Government's policy of support and recovery. This efficiency is measured in terms of growth, which we have increased from 6% to 6.25%. As we announced with Bruno Le Maire, we will change the macroeconomic scenario, which will result mechanically in additional revenue for the state, for fiscal year 2021 as well as for fiscal year 2022. In addition, as I said a moment ago and INSEE confirmed on 29 October, the employment situation is a vivid proof of the success of the recovery plan, with an unemployment rate now estimated at 7.6%, the lowest in 14 years. These results demonstrate that the reforms carried out since the beginning of the quinquennium by the President of the Republic and the Government have produced concrete results, which we have strengthened and strengthened through emergency and recovery measures. They result in a reduction in the government deficit and public debt reported to GDP compared to our previous forecasts. I also confirm that if the growth recorded in 2021 was greater than 6.25%, the surplus revenue would have the effect of reducing the level of the public deficit. We have been able to find a good balance between the seriousness and the expenditure needed to cope with the crisis. We will not let anyone say that we have let the expenses go: it is a criticism based on sand, issued by those who would certainly never have managed such a crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u8	That's not nice of the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u9	The first sign of our serious budget: like every year, the end-of-year PLFR cancels appropriations to finance the needs that have arisen during the year, in particular by mobilising the inter-ministerial reserve, and to draw the consequences of the smallest consumptions over the year. Beyond these usual movements, it also provides for a cancellation of more than 2 billion euros on the mission Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis. In accordance with the timetable for phasing out emergency aid, we are putting an end to the most expensive schemes. We also propose that you cancel the appropriations made available under the first financial act amending the appropriation for accidental and unpredictable expenditure of 1.5 billion, which we did not need to mobilise in view of the improvement of the health and economic situation in recent months. I would also like to point out that the execution of the expenditure on the so-called ordinary budgets of the ministries in 2021 will be in line with the level provided for in the original finance law, with the exception of the financing of the inflation compensation and the measures to compensate for the loss of revenue linked to the health crisis for the benefit of particular operators in the field of culture, but also to the benefit of France for which we will strengthen the support of the State of 2 billion. Finally, the State's total expenditure has been controlled and is down from the forecast of the first amending finance law for 2021. The Government's expenditure target, which covers almost all of them, is estimated at 534.6 billion by 2021, integrating the forecast of expenditure of the Mission's emergency plan against the health crisis to the tune of 36.3 billion. In total, the upward revision of growth, the cancellation of emergency surplus appropriations and the control of ordinary expenditure allow us to reduce the deficit by 2021 and to meet the target of 5% of the public deficit by 2022, as we had set it. I would point out that the reduction of the deficit for 2021 brings it, in the macroeconomic scenario that we have presented to you, to 8.1%, but I will have the opportunity to propose an amendment to raise it slightly to 8.2%, the Senate having adopted an amendment that raises the level of the national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) of 1.7 billion to deal with the health crisis in 2021. Due to rounding, this mechanically leads us to revise the deficit to 8.2 per cent, but we are well below the 9.4 per cent in the first amending finance bill. Similarly, last spring we estimated that our debt would reach 117.8 per cent of GDP in 2021 and 116.3 per cent in 2022: it will finally be 115.3 per cent in 2021 and 113.5 per cent in 2022. So our public finances are better than we expected last spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u10	With a few cash transactions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u11	This does not mean that we have finished, on the contrary, with the efforts that are still needed to return to a more sustainable path and on the road to the normalisation of public finances. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We would make a serious mistake if we suddenly stopped the various arrangements, if we wanted to correct the public accounts too quickly. On the contrary, we favour a gradual exit and concentration of the resources allocated to the public policies that are most effective and to the benefit of those who need them most, with the objective of growth, employment, growth because it generates revenue, generates wealth and thus enables us to meet our commitments. That's the meaning of the PLFR I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u12	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u13	[[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] The Government's proposal for an amended end-of-management finance bill makes it possible to take into account for fiscal year 2021, first of all the increase in the forecast of growth for this year from 6 per cent to 6.25 per cent. This is the first good news we must stop at because it owes nothing to chance. It is of course the translation of the political choices that we have voted for here, it is the result of an effective economic policy, constant since the beginning of the health crisis, and in continuity with that carried out since the beginning of this legislature, based on the liberation of our economy, but also on the protection of the French, in particular by emergency measures and the preparation of our future with the recovery plan. I note, moreover, that, according to many forecasters, growth could still exceed 6.25% by the end of 2021. This economic rebound has a substantial impact on the labour market, visible in a figure that each of us looks closely at, and assiduously: that of the unemployment rate that could reach, at the end of the year, a level that had not been so for almost fifteen years. It is already lower than the pre-crisis level. I sincerely believe that the whole of national representation can and should welcome this situation, which, of course, will need to be consolidated and improved. In terms of public finances, the vitality of economic activity is reflected in an improvement in the forecast of the government deficit from 8.4% to 8.2% of GDP for the year 2021. This update takes place just over a month after the previous forecast, which was associated with the introduction of the 2022 Finance Bill. [[Ms. Zivka Park applauds]] As for compulsory levies, tax and social revenues, they are dynamic, necessarily directly linked to the increase in the forecast of growth. It is a favourable orientation of the labour market that I have mentioned, which allows for the increase of the amounts recovered, in particular those derived from the social levies directly linked and seated on the wage bill. The state's tax revenues are expected to reach nearly $78 billion by 2021, 19 billion more than we predicted and estimated in last summer's first amending finance bill. 19 billion euros of additional revenue for the state between the PLFR of June and November: let us collectively report on what this represents in the capacity for action directly at the service of our citizens – I will come back to it with the exceptional aid linked to inflation – but also dedicated to reducing the deficit, thus at the beginning of our country's deleveraging. I intend to stop for a moment on this point, because everyone considers, far too much, that any new expenditure would be made with constant revenues, as if any new expenditure would be to widen the deficit by definition, to "burn the fund" or to use the State checkbook. The truth is that when you have an additional EUR 19 billion in tax and social revenue through a working economic and social policy that lowers unemployment and increases the revenue of the state, it is obvious that this amount can be used to better protect our citizens, to continue investing and to desist. We therefore see that making the bet of activity to finance our social model is not a view of the spirit: it is a reality, it is a political will difficult to implement but one that bears fruit; the numbers and facts are stubborn. On the expenditure side, the end of the "whatever it costs" is reflected in this text by cancellations, slightly above 3.5 billion, notably under the missions Emergency plan in response to the health crisis and Unallocated credits. There are net openings of payment appropriations for a little more than 3 billion, the minister said, for the creation of the inflation compensation, the amount of which will be just over 3.8 billion, as well as for the increase of 100 euros of the energy check. Among the tools introduced by the Government and the parliamentary majority, these provisions are designed to protect the French against the increase in the cost of living, in particular of fuels, electricity and gas, which accompanies the economic recovery observed in the world and in France. Whether there is inflation in a global economic recovery as powerful as the recession has been, whether there is inflation in the face of so much monetary creation needed in relation to the crisis and the action of the central banks, it is normal, it is natural, it is even healthy enough. What is needed is that we can contain the effects of this inflation, which can obviously have an impact on the purchasing power of our citizens. When the DNA of the majority in this mandate is to protect and strengthen the purchasing power of our fellow citizens, it is natural that exceptional transitional tools such as inflation compensation and the upgrading of the energy cheque are created. I am pleased that these tools are found in the amended end-of-management finance bill and not fully in the 2022 Finance Bill. This also reflects their transitory, exceptional nature and, above all, their rapid and effective implementation. Some had defended fuel tax reductions on all banks rather than inflation compensation. I consider, and have always defended, that this type of budgetary allowance is more appropriate. It will first be paid to 38 million people with a net income of less than EUR 2000 per month; It helps to target smaller households or households with average incomes, while a reduction in taxes, which is difficult to reverse – we know the cliquet effects of tax cuts – would have affected all households, including those in the last deciles, which you so often deplore. This inflation allowance of 100 euros is online, if not more than the loss of purchasing power at the pump of a household with a car compared to the price of fuel recorded in 2018 and 2019, on average – you will find people for whom the effects of inflation will be greater, and others less. It is a simple, efficient, quick to apply and properly calibrated measure. This is similar to the helicopter currency system that was observed across the Atlantic during the crisis. Moreover, it is not said that direct aid to the most modest households will have to be devised in the short term in order to cope, in particular, with the costs of the ecological transition. This increase, if considered temporary, remains of great magnitude, and if you combine the inflation allowance, the tariff shield that we voted for in the review of the finance bill, the increase in the energy cheque, in total, is a considerable financial effort by the community, either in additional expenses or in less revenue. I will not let it be said that there is a state pool on the situation of energy price inflation. In the years 2021 and 2022, if we assume that inflation does not go beyond the revenues and costs that this will generate for the public authorities, it is in the end more than 8 billion that the community will have to pay to protect the purchasing power of households. Eight billion is a little less than the budget of justice. So we are very far from a pool, rather on a colossal financial effort. I say this in anticipation of the many amendments which will want to explain that all the measures are insufficient. To spend 8 billion on purchasing power exceptionally, it had never been seen. The PLFR includes other measures, such as massive aid linked to France skills, the exceptional repayable advance to Île-de-France Mobilitys in the amount of 800 million, which complements the grants granted to it in 2020 in the face of tax losses, and in addition to the first repayable advance of 1.2 billion a year ago. In total, it is almost 2.5 billion that the State unlocks for Île-de-France Mobilitys so that this organizing authority can meet its obligations vis-à-vis its operators and avoid that the user of the public service of mobilitys francilien pays them by an increase in the Navigo pass in particular. We do this well that the management of Île-de-France Mobilitys has been challenged and criticized by the Regional Chamber of Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u14	A catastrophic management!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u15	Finally, this paper proposes a decline in the debt ratio – in 2021, it is 115.3% instead of 115.6% – directly linked to the new fruits of growth. I hope that we will be able to discuss the issue of debt on a regular basis, once the organic bill that Éric Woerth and I will submit to you is adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In total, I invite our assembly to pass the second amending finance bill for 2021, which has all the characteristics of an end-of-management collective, without tax tools – in this regard, I thank the Government for having respected this discipline throughout our mandate – which clearly reflects the need to continue to protect our fellow citizens, the purchasing power of households, and which reflects the very good French economic sequence today, which everyone can rejoice at.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u16	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u17	I would like to take this opportunity to address, beyond the PLFR itself, the issue of public expenditure. The recovery of our public finances has become the promise made by all the Presidents of the Republic during the first year of their term of office, giving rise to hope each time. I certainly do not deny the sincerity of their commitment, nor do we deny the violence of the health and economic crisis that our country has been experiencing since 2020, but this must not prevent us from analysing the increase in expenditure since 2017. Because we are able to distinguish between emergency and recovery expenditure and current expenditure, unrelated to the crisis, we have an interesting reading grid of nature and the evolution of public expenditure. Thus in 2022, we should have spent, from all public administrations together and from draft finance law (PLF) to PLF, 172 billion euros more than in 2021, all crisis expenditure included.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u18	[[Charles de Courson applauds]] What questions the most is the 150 billion additional current expenditure. I include in this figure the investment credits of France 2030, or the Youth commitment contract. Thus, in just three years, with an additional 100 billion out of crisis-related expenses, the Government will have led a policy of increasing spending more than during the entire mandate of François Hollande – 90 billion additional expenses. If no one questions the substantial budgetary effort that the executive proposes to save our economy, we have the right to question the level of current spending. Even in times of crisis, we continue to live beyond our means; It may even be said that the crisis has been an acceleration of current expenditure under this legislature. While the needs are acute in many areas where it is legitimate to meet them, especially in the area of health, we regret that no hierarchy has been established in the expenditure to compensate for this increase...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u19	What expenses would you like to remove?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u20	... especially since while some of the new expenditure is not intended to be sustainable, such as the inflation allowance provided for by this PLFR, many will continue to have a lasting impact on our country's public finances. This is the case with the €34 billion commitment authorisations of France 2030, which will weigh on future budgets. It is hoped that they will be an accelerator of growth, but that remains to be seen. This is also the case with measures for the development of skills and integration into employment. There are two keys to controlling this expenditure, which everyone would never really want to achieve without the political will but also the method. The first is the control of the public service payroll. It increased significantly between 2017 and 2022 because the number of public servants has not been reduced. I know that everyone goes with their numbers in the run-up to the presidential election...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u21	Which ones do you delete?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u22	... but I still believe that the increase in administrative productivity through the development of digital technology should make it possible to reconcile improvements in public services, better remuneration and reduction in the number of agents. I would like to say a word about the procedure in this budgetary period, which has made you, Mr Minister, the champions of the last minute's tabling of amendments by the executive. This was, of course, the case of the amendment which Valérie Rabault said was the most expensive one in the Fifth Republic since it allowed the vote of 34 billion euros in additional appropriations, but there are many others. This year, the Government tabled 20 amendments on the first part of the PLF, 46 on non-attached articles, 2 on recapitalisation articles, 57 on budgetary missions, or 125 amendments in total, and others are coming... The Government should finally table 130 amendments under these conditions. It's a lot, it's even much more than usual, especially since they often tend not only to pass additional appropriations but to introduce new articles: while the original finance bill had relatively few articles, we find ourselves with a much heavier text. Some of these amendments are very important, such as the plan for Marseilles and many others. Either this is the result of a particularly rich news, or the Government panics at the idea that the Senate rejects the budget from a block. Fearing that he would not be able to table amendments which he usually tabled late, he is doing so here in the National Assembly. In any case, it is extremely difficult for Parliament to see this clearly. Not only does this damage his good information, but it allows the Government to escape the control of the Council of State and the explanations are reduced to little. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] Finally, the budgetary balance is roughly equivalent to what was planned, i.e. high. I would point out that Germany planned to permanently reduce its deficit in 2024. So we are not at all on the same line as our neighbour, as usual. Moreover, Germany generally achieves its objectives, if it expects its budget to be balanced in 2024, that is surely what will happen. I would not like this PLFR, and more broadly the whole of this budgetary exercise, to make us forget, especially in the coming years, the imperative of reducing our public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u23	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u24	This traditional end-of-management budgetary collective closed the year 2021, marked from a budgetary point of view both by the extension of the massive support measures enabling the restrictions to be maintained during the first half of the year and by the famous recovery plan and its so-called EUR 100 billion. It is also part of a pivotal period, marked by an improvement in the main economic indicators, but also a significant recovery in inflation, fuelled mainly by an explosion in energy prices, which particularly affects popular households. In these circumstances, this motion of rejection marks a clear opposition to the economic policy pursued by the Government, simply because the stimulus measures and the measures taken do not address the first concern of the French: purchasing power. This year 2021 was to mark a turning point after the calls to reinvent themselves following a health, economic and social crisis that deeply challenged the foundations of our development models. The budget for 2022 was to set out a new path in the wake of a stimulus plan announced in great pomp; It was intended to enable the transformation of our economy, around a sovereignty finally regained, to take on an ambitious ecological transition, for more solidarity and for a true recognition of all these admirable first chores that have held our country at arm's length since the first confinement. But the reality is quite different. Your policy could be summed up by the maxim "hunting the natural, it comes back to galloping": faithful to your convictions and economic dogmas, you have adopted a stimulus plan based on massive tax cuts and subsidies to businesses, without any conditions. In this way, you have been pursuing a policy of naive and dirty supply for years, which consists of pouring tens of billions into businesses, without any control of their use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u25	It's working! They're hiring!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u26	The reductions in business value added contributions (CVAE) and business property levies (CFE), which are included in the 2021 budget and which we will propose to abolish by way of amendment, are the same for large companies. For example, 3% of businesses, mainly financial ones, capture two thirds of the decline in the ACVAE. As for the effects on reindustrialization, the French Economic Observatory, OFCE, has recently explained that they are null. The Cohesion programme of the Relance mission also illustrates this policy. It could be thought that it would draw the consequences of the social situation after the health crisis and respond to it through transfers to households, measures which, beyond their social necessity, would enable the economy to be revived. This is not the case: this program focuses on providing grants to businesses that hire young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u28	This is the famous plan "1 young, 1 solution". The boon effect of this policy, due to the lack of targeting, is enormous for companies that sometimes do not need it. This recovery plan does not respond to the challenges, both in terms of the amounts allocated and how it spends them. What our country needs is a large investment plan that allocates the annual amounts set out in your plan over at least ten years. These credits must not be spilled, but invested and directed directly by the State and the communities, in a planning logic, far from the umpteenth investment plan announced by the President of the Republic. This year 2021 was also a missed new opportunity to adopt the measures of fiscal justice, or at least solidarity, even exceptional, that the French demand in their vast majority. We are even invited by international institutions closer to your dogmas than ours, such as the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. His chief economist stated in June that "countries could consider making temporary contributions in addition to the highest rates of personal income tax. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u29	Many of us have made proposals on these issues, both during the review of the FLP and during the committee review of this amending finance bill. You have, each time, remained frozen in your certainty, refusing all the proposals, even the most limited and the most targeted. The 358,000 richest families hold a wealth of 1028 billion, half of what France produces in a year. The work of the specialist economists strongly reaffirms that in order to cope with the inequalities that have grown since you came to power in 2017 and that have become stronger during the crisis, it is essential to make an even greater redistribution, and that it inevitably involves progressive taxes that target the richest. Indeed, the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few does not only harm social cohesion, it does not only upset the values of solidarity and cooperation that we love and that underpin our republican pact; It is also an economic and social contradiction. It was still the IMF that declared a year ago that France had reached a level of inequality that was detrimental to economic growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u30	A new distribution of wealth is now essential, a distribution that Minister Le Maire has repeatedly called for but for which nothing has been done since any tax measure affecting the richest was refused. At the same time, despite the apparent stability of the number of poor, the Director of INSEE urged "not to confuse the worsening of poverty situations with the increase in the number of poor. An INSEE survey of bank accounts, published on 3 November, shows that the most vulnerable have great difficulty completing their month-ends. Other indicators, such as the use of food aid, which increased by 11% in 2020, show an increase in poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u31	Faced with these challenges, emergency measures have been more than inadequate, and even non-existent in the recovery plan. A few months from the presidential elections, you are trying today, with this PLFR, to cling to the branches...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u32	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u33	... by deploying an inflation allowance of EUR 100 for individuals with incomes below the median wage. As it stands, the provision, presented as central by the government and the majority, does not satisfy us and would suffice to justify in itself the removal of this text. While almost all the conditions will be fixed by decree without Parliament being able to intervene, the few elements contained in this PLF raise many questions. The inclusion of individual income, not household income, effectively excluding children from the criteria, poses a number of problems in defining the scope of beneficiaries. How is a single person earning 1900 euros more entitled to inflation compensation than an isolated mother with three dependent children earning 2100 euros? This question has not yet been answered in the ranks of the majority or in the Government. Apart from the technical aspects, this one-time and exceptional allowance cannot meet the current challenges: the risk of a sustainable drop in wages compared to consumer prices is not to be excluded and is a source of real concern for our citizens. To be sustainable, the answer cannot be compensation, albeit praiseworthy but temporary; It will reside only in a new distribution of wealth and an increase in wages. Minister Le Maire has called him of his wishes, but, as usual, the actions do not follow the words. However, there are many tools, such as an increase in the SMIC and an increase in the index point for civil servants. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] In the face of this policy, which continues to become accustomed to rising inequalities and poverty, which refuses to question the distribution of wealth, which responds as always, when it comes to people, by a small, piecemeal and ill-fated aid which Parliament will not have the hand over, we propose the prior rejection of this amending finance bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u34	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u35	Let us be clear: the adoption of such a motion of rejection would mean that the text would not be adopted. If the text were not adopted, we would at the same time refrain from financing the second call for projects of the fund dedicated to land recycling of wasteland – the wasteland fund –, the investments in the own site of the mobility authorities, the Mountain plan or the extension of aid for the hiring of apprentices and alterns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u36	A rejection motion is a political act, you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u37	In other words, we would refrain from using the country's economic recovery tools. The adoption of this motion and the rejection of the PLFR would have a second consequence: the commitment of the President of the Republic to finance the inflation allowance of 100 euros would be abandoned and none of the provisions that we are implementing to help France competences and cultural operators would be adopted. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I hear Mr. Dufrègne predict that in any case the motion will be rejected; It's probably true, but in this case, you simply didn't have to present it! In the meantime, the Government is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u39	In explanation of vote, Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u40	Unsurprisingly, we are against the motion to reject, for three reasons. You are opposed to our economic policy in general and above all to what you call our vision of naive offer. I will say the opposite because the indicators show that this year, the "naïve" offer has borne fruit. [[Paul-André Colombani and Carole Grandjean applaud]] Then, as last year, this PLFR foresees tax cuts, both for companies – as you said – and for households. We must adopt them; I do not understand, moreover, that any political group can oppose the reduction of taxation, because it has reached a level which must be reduced absolutely. Finally, it is effective to take specific measures at specific times, as we experienced last year, to deal with the difficulties facing the population. This PLFR adds new measures, in line with our action since the beginning of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u41	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u42	Our group will support this motion to reject, probably a little in principle...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u43	Just a little?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u44	... because we know that it will not be adopted, even if we do not wish to postpone the entry into force of measures which, for some of our fellow citizens, are survival measures. Nevertheless, we remain convinced that it is possible to do better in keeping with budgetary balances. We understand the concern to limit public spending. Of course, you have made the choice to limit aid to the power to live to the most fragile, but as President Woerth has just pointed out, the control of spending is one thing; As regards the respect of budgetary balances, it also appreciates itself with respect to revenue. This motion of rejection is a new opportunity to try to convince you that we must limit spending to inflation, but also that we must concentrate it in favour of the most fragile by using the most affluent to generate new revenue – the proposals in this direction are not lacking in recent times. On the other hand, article 12 and the corresponding implementing decree are debated. The threshold effects carry their procession of injustices and one can wonder about particular situations: a single mother with two children who earns barely more than 2000 euros, for example, will not be entitled to this aid, while a person earning less than 2000 euros whose spouse or spouse earns much more will be entitled to it. One can also wonder about the period of income taken into account, which runs from January to October 2021; Above all, the measure does not take account of differences in usage since it does not distinguish between those who have the most burdened expenditure, particularly related to work, or – other injustice – those who live in territories without public transport and who, as a result, suffer a greater energy constraint. In short, it is a lot of injustice for an allocation of 100 euros per year, that is to say 8 euros per month – we are far from the account! I do not have time to mention your second recovery plan, which Mr Bruneel pointed out, but in plain terms, there are many reasons why this text should be re-examined!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u45	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u46	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would not allow myself to paraphrase the minister delegate, who says things much more clearly and simply than we do, but I am still very surprised; I will mention two of the measures that we would not be able to implement if we did not adopt this PLFR. The first is the aid granted to farmers who have suffered painful episodes of frost and to those who are again confronted with avian influenza. The second, which I also welcome, is the increase in the amount of scholarships awarded to French students. Therefore, without any surprise, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u47	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u48	We always need a small end-of-management PLFR to adjust some things. Mr Bruneel raised several real problems; For example, we will return at length to Article 12, which introduces an unfair, ill-calibrated inflation premium and I am going through it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u49	But much awaited!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u50	However, I do not want to deprive the House of the pleasure of debating Article 12! That is why we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u51	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u52	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] Merry Christmas! Yes, I wish you a merry Christmas, with a little advance, because you have already announced the gifts: inflation allowance, energy check, plan to reduce recruitment tensions, and so on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u53	So you're going to vote for it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u54	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] And it's only November! You are following your own electoral calendar. For the sake of economy and clarity, you could have slipped all these checks into the envelopes of the ballot papers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u55	Jealous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u56	I don't know if Santa Claus is a scumbag, but it doesn't undermine the announcement effects: when he promises 100 euros to 38 million French, or 3.8 billion, we only find 1.5 billion in this PLFR. So I'm asking you the whole question: where's the rest? In PLF 2022? What a knitting! Even clutter with the energy check: the 600 million announced are financed in part by... the increase in the VAT product following the rise in energy prices!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u57	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u58	Curious Santa who gives with one hand what he took with the other! Finally, the final package: the plan to reduce recruitment tensions. More gifts to companies – those that will deign to form a long-term unemployed person. Again, you are unsettling: 600 million are planned in this PLFR, far from the 1.4 billion announced. Curious Santa Claus who staggers her gifts over two years! It is not a budget calendar that you are presenting to us, but a calendar of Advent, full of little bites thanks to which the children stand wise but do not satisfy at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u59	Depends on the size of the chocolates...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u60	That is why we will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u61	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u62	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u63	Should we bend the chin and say nothing, Mr. Deputy Minister? You know very well that a rejection motion is above all a political act, which is one of the limited means we have left to denounce your bad policy. If we pass the motion, you say, we would not fund this or that... Please! You know very well that the motion will not be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u64	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u65	That is why I say that this is a political act, dear colleague. Our group will naturally vote in favour of this motion, which it has defended. The majority and the Government invite us to wait for the discussion – which will probably be interesting, for example on Article 12 which Mr de Courson referred to – to enter into the debate, but we do not need it since all our amendments are systematically rejected. That is why, this time, we are proposing that the text be rejected beforehand. Absence of any solidarity tax measure on the part of the most affluent – even the most insignificant – at each review of a budget text; lack of a sustainable response to the problem of low wages and the purchasing power of popular households; Finally, an inflation compensation, of which – we are not the only ones to think – almost all of the parameters are referred to a decree of which we are not aware, and which will be based on individual incomes by effectively excluding many single-parent families who are suffering the rise in consumer prices, especially those of energy: we cannot vote for a text that is characterized by this. Some people are surprised that a political group can oppose tax cuts: we are not systematically opposed to them, but we are in favour of a better tax justice that would reduce the taxes of those who are going through the crisis more than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u66	That's exactly what we're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u67	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u68	On the benches of the majority and even on all benches, no one understands this motion of rejection, even though we have heard that it was more a political act than a real conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u69	You've got it all figured out!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u70	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You know very well that we must continue the efforts to deploy the recovery plan. This PLFR provides €2.3 billion in commitment authorisations in the Recovery Plan mission. Let us recall that the recovery plan has borne fruit in terms of activity and employment: unemployment has been at the lowest for more than fifteen years and it is thanks to the companies we helped this year and last year, which hire and enable economic recovery, which is essential for our country. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We also need $4 billion to fund well-functioning schemes, such as the "1 young, 1 solution" plan, support for the ecological transition, and the Territories of Industry initiative. Thanks to the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, which will be provided with redeployed funds, 3 million young people have found training, employment and support; We can all congratulate ourselves! Most importantly, with this motion of rejection, you refuse to support the communities most at risk of rising prices. You also refuse all compensation measures in favour of State operators who have suffered exceptional revenue losses as a result of the health crisis. More modestly, this PLFR, and I welcome it, provides EUR 8 million in compensation for revenue losses from the air noise tax in order to continue the soundproofing of the accommodation of the airport residents, which suffers from the resumption of air traffic. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] A new repayable advance to Île-de-France Mobilitys is also proposed for €800 million. I also urge the President of the region, if she listens to me, not to take these sums, since she said she did not want to use the French money to bail out the caisses of this public institution. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly oppose this motion of rejection and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u71	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u72	The Republican Group opposes the guidelines of this PLFR and the measures it contains. Our first point of divergence relates to the use of additional revenue resulting from the upward revision of the Government's growth assumptions, which now count on 6.25 per cent, as well as the forecasts of employment, thus on the wage bill. We regret that none of these additional revenues are used for debt repayment, while the High Council for Public Finance itself, in its opinion of 17 September, indicated that all additional revenues should be allocated as a priority to debt relief. Our second point of divergence concerns the EUR 100 energy check, the flagship measure of this second PLFR, which we regret is not targeted. This will mean that it will not benefit rural families who will see their bills increase by 600, 700, or 800 euros due to frequent car trips and high heating costs, while households without vehicles and using public transport will receive this cheque. It's an injustice! However, as our opposition to this PLFR is due to reasons different from those of the GDR Group, we will abstain from voting on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u73	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u74	This budgetary collective will normally be, and I say "normally" the last financial text of the legislature. In the preamble, I would like to congratulate the Government for sticking to the doctrine that we have been defending for several years now that no tax system is included in a year-end amending finance law. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able to stick collectively to this discipline. Far from the fears of subsidence that some might have expressed, the economy continued to recover, even accelerating its growth, which, according to INSEE, reached 3% in the third quarter, the highest level recorded since 1968. We have already recovered the level of pre-covid activity in the third quarter, 18 months before the most pessimistic forecast in mid-2020 set. In a word, France is recovering. Let's trust ourselves! Several treatments, if you allow me this term, can be cited as contributing to this healing faster than expected. The first is the extraordinary resilience of the productive fabric to the health crisis. As you know, it is due in the first place to the arrangements adopted in spring 2020 – state-guaranteed lending, partial activity, solidarity funds – that we have been able to change in response to the epidemic and economic situation in our country for the past two years. The second factor I should stress is the success of France Relance. Since September 2020, we have put nearly EUR 70 billion on the table to revive the French economy in a movement that is common to all our European partners. Third and last factor: the health pass and the progression of vaccination. To date, as the President of the Republic pointed out yesterday in his speech, we have no other solution as effective as vaccination to reduce the disease. And I can't help but encourage our fellow citizens to get vaccinated, until they get a third dose if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u76	This renewed growth is the result of the commitment of the President of the Republic, his government and, of course, his majority, but also that of our companies, our employees and our civil servants. If I were to go further, I would also highlight the commitment of each of us as a citizen who is aware of his or her duties and responsibility towards his or her neighbour. Let's trust ourselves! Mr Minister, you know the Dem Group's commitment to a serious budget, and I will certainly welcome the Government's commitment to allocate all the revenue and money generated by the smallest expenditure from better-than-anticipated growth to the reduction of the deficit, hence of the debt. It's a breakthrough! It is a pity that President Woerth was absent: we could have told him again that we too are very attentive to debt. I cannot speak about the deficit without saying a word about France's particular financial situation. In a way, its need for funding is welcome because it demonstrates the dynamism of vocational training and, above all, of apprenticeship. However, it also reveals the need to further structure this agency in order to make its funding more responsive to needs. Let us not forget that this PLFR also proposes to finance new arrangements to better respond to situations arising from the recovery and not from the crisis. The first challenge is to support those who do not yet benefit sufficiently from this re-established growth, in particular those who are furthest from the labour market. On 27 September, the Prime Minister announced a package of accompanying measures for these long-term jobseekers, which this group is financing in part. The other major issue this autumn is the acceleration of inflation, particularly on energy prices due to the high global demand. Several schemes must respond to this new situation: tariff shield on gas prices, exceptional energy check of 100 euros for the most modest households or premium inflation designed to reduce the impact of inflation on the purchasing power of 38 million of our citizens. On behalf of the Group, I welcome the collective work of this year 2021, which we strongly and rigorously support. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Lise Magnier also applauds]] Let us trust in ourselves, let us trust in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u77	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u78	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u79	This second draft law of amending finance for 2021 is in a way ending the accounts of a particular year, a year marked by a gradual exit from the health crisis and an economic recovery that needs to be sustained in a context of high inflation and the end of the quinquennium. The review of this text confirms that the Government greatly benefits from the overall economic situation, namely a mechanical rebound of the various indicators after several months of agonism due to the health crisis. If the deficit for 2021 is lower than originally projected, it is for reasons that are less due to the Government's choices than to the improvement of the overall economic situation. It should be recalled here that France lost 8 points of GDP in 2020, compared to only 6.5 points for the euro area as a whole. If our country's rebound is a little more marked than in the euro area, it is also because we fell lower. The PLFR endorses the fact that the Government has consistently, in the many budget texts that have been submitted to national representation, transformed what it considers to be the cyclical deficit into a structural deficit. This shows that, contrary to what is repeated, the effects of the crisis will be lasting. This invites us to adopt a long-term vision far from any electoral sprinkling. Yet, and this is the second conclusion that can be drawn from the review of the PLFR, the Government is navigating on sight. This is evident in the PLF for 2022, which I compared to a golf course, which prevents Parliament from having a sincere overview of the real state of the country's finances. Do I have to recall that we have had to discuss specifically four amendments representing almost 7% of the state budget, one of which was devoted to the France 2030 plan alone weighing 34 billion euros, the most expensive amendment of the Fifth Republic? This PLFR is in the same vein as the PLF. Instead of correcting the budget execution of the past year as usual this fiscal year, it provides for an inflation allowance to compensate for the price increase mainly due to the explosion in energy prices, which is a major concern for the French, especially the most modest ones, who fear that they will be unable to heat up this winter or put fuel in their cars to work. This measure consisting of the creation of an inflation check of 100 euros for French people earning less than 2000 euros net per month is of course always good to take, but it cannot be the alpha and omega of government policy, especially in the face of the distress of the working poor. Its amount – €3.8 billion – and the communication effects that accompany it must not make us forget all the measures that have benefited the most affluent: the €7.2 billion spent by the Government on the abolition of the housing tax for the 20% of the most affluent households, the 5 billion cost to public finances represented by the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth (ISF) and the introduction of the flat tax or the 10 billion euro reduction in production taxes. While this cheque of 100 euros can meet the needs of some of our fellow citizens, it should be remembered that almost 38 million French people over 16 years of age earn less than 2000 euros net when a small handful earns millions each month. This measure, which only applies in the coming month of December, does not respond to the most precarious situation, which has been penalized every day for many months. Is it worth reminding you that since the beginning of the year, fuel and gas prices have increased by 18% and 57% respectively? The tariff shield put in place by the Government only shifts the expenses of the French, who will have to pay the tribute after the electoral deadlines that come. However, it would have been possible to apply a much fairer solution of considering fuels as a basic commodity and adjusting the amount of VAT accordingly. Instead, the Government will recover part of the amount allocated through taxes. Worse, this public money will pass through households but will end up in the coffers of energy suppliers such as Gazprom or Total, a group that achieved a net profit of 9,7 billion euros over the first three quarters of this year! In other words, even if it contains measures to support households, this PLFR will ultimately bring no serious long-term solution to the most modest French, to the poor workers who remain the great losers of this quinquennium, while the winners remain not the rich but the very, very rich. It is becoming urgent to get out of these class budgets to establish a budget for all, a budget for justice and solidarity based on a medium- and long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u80	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u81	The examination of the second amending finance bill for 2021 is an opportunity to draw up an initial assessment of this particular year, on the basis of the maintenance of emergency mechanisms, the exit from crisis and the revival. The first observation that can be made is a source of hope: the economic situation is better than anticipated. Growth is expected to reach 6.25% of GDP, perhaps even more, in view of the excellent results in the third quarter. Mechanically, the level of employment and tax revenue for the State is better than expected, allowing the budget to abound with all the additional revenues that are welcome. Clearly, the "no matter what" has helped to preserve our productive fabric and the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. The recovery, launched last year and deployed extremely quickly and effectively, has a significant amplifying effect. [[Mr. Bertrand Bouyx applauds]] However, it is not a question of granting satisfaction at a time when difficulties persist in certain territories and areas of activity and for some of our most precarious compatriots. However, let us take a step backwards: who, a year ago, could have hoped that our economy would be as good and that François' jobs would be so well preserved? The challenges we face are still numerous. I am thinking of tensions in the raw materials markets, difficulties in recruiting in certain sectors or of rising energy prices. However, we are convinced that the path is the right one, that our economic policy is bearing fruit. Specifically, in order to combat the upsurge in energy prices, the Government has announced strong measures, some of which are aimed at implementing them; Far from just a collective budget at the end of the year, it contains provisions whose effects will be real for our citizens. The inflation premium ranks first, which is quite normal given its cost to public finances and the number of French people involved. While we are still awaiting clarification from the Government on its deployment and payment arrangements, it will nevertheless be a major support for the purchasing power of most of our fellow citizens. The extra energy check will benefit the 6 million smaller households, at an estimated cost of over EUR 530 million, which is not negligible as winter approaches. Moreover, beyond the energy problem, the text aims to continue the implementation of the measures announced in favour of farmers, faced with exceptional freezing episodes, but also with the recurrence of avian influenza in France. These are three eloquent examples: I could have cited many more in order to stress once again the importance of this amending finance bill, which, while providing concrete answers to our fellow citizens, demonstrates the ability of the state to adapt and react. These additional expenditures will be offset by cancellations, most often from reserve and unconsumed appropriations, as well as growth and higher-than-expected revenues. In the end, the state of public finances is better than we expected: the deficit forecast for 2021 is now estimated at 8.2% of GDP, compared to 8.4% only a few weeks ago. Nevertheless, it remains a matter of concern, so that once the crisis and international price tensions have passed, we will have to return to the path of expenditure control. Our position on this issue will not vary, nor will it vary: we need to find a balance between support for recovery and the restoration of public accounts. We reiterate that an austerity cure similar to that following the 2008 crisis would be counterproductive for both the economy and public finances; However, the crisis ended, once again, we will need the courage to make bold choices, in order to keep our commitment to a 3% deficit return in 2027. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are convinced that the draft law on amending finance is well calibrated, so as to allow the implementation of the announcements concerning the protection of the purchasing power of the French, while at the same time attesting to the vigour of the economic recovery. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u82	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u83	This second amending finance bill reflects the Government's renunciation of the record level of our debt. Not only do public spending experience an upswing a few weeks from the presidential election, but in a totally irresponsible way, one lets continue to grow, like the least of the priorities, a debt yet dizzying! This sad observation, it is not only we, the Republicans, who are doing it: the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP) publicly deplores that the additional tax revenue associated with the dynamism of the recovery has not been devoted to debt relief, as it advocated. The fine promises they had made to us, the minister and the minister delegated did nothing; On the contrary, these additional revenues are absorbed, and beyond that, by the new expenses which, I repeat, have flourished for a few weeks to remind us that the President of the Republic is already on the run.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u84	You too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u85	These election expenses therefore generate debt. In short, by 2021, growth would have been entirely financed by deficit and debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u87	Faced with more than EUR 15 billion of additional expenditure since September, the HCFP felt obliged to make a new referral concerning the draft finance law for 2022, in which, moreover, the Government was last Monday until it had to register 34 billion commitment authorizations, by way of amendment, at the turn of a budget mission! This expenditure fever goes hand in hand with a total disregard for parliamentary work and national representation, which is why I ask the rapporteur-general very clearly to denounce this unjustifiable procedure. From renunciation to renunciation, our debt is on the verge of crossing the symbolic bar of 3000 billion, almost 45000 euros per French. It is simple: twenty-four of the twenty-seven members of the European Union are less indebted than we are! This year, interest alone will cost us more than 38 billion – almost 1400 million more than you originally planned. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that this amount represents reductions in taxes and taxes that we could have offered to our compatriots! Still, it would have taken you, between 2017 and 2020, the courage to take advantage of growth to get us out of debt, as twenty-four countries of the Union did again. Debt relief is, however, an essential lever to reduce taxation and thus restore purchasing power to the French. Yes, purchasing power is the primary concern of our compatriots, who have been hit hard by rising fuel prices, rising gas and electricity prices. To this concern, it was necessary to respond by a structural reduction in taxes on fuel and energy, not by a cheque of 100 euros, timelyly distributed to a few weeks of the elections, for any account balance! A cheque not targeted, not adapted to the needs, that you pay to half the French without knowing whether they use their car or even if they have the permit; 100 euros of alms to the rural family who saw its fuel and heating bills increase in 2021 by 600 or 800 euros, to the single mother who has no choice but to take her car morning, noon and evening! [[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] To this policy of the checkbook, which recalls your socialist DNA, the Republican Group prefers, I repeat, a policy of reducing taxation, much fairer and much simpler – because it is still surreal that the state distributes money to citizens in order to allow them to pay taxes on the fuel whose product belongs to the state,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u88	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u89	... especially when these taxes represent 60% of the price at the pump and 30% of the amount of the energy bill. We will therefore propose an amendment to abolish all taxes on energy products, in particular the internal consumption tax (ICTPE).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u90	Did you encrypt it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u91	Yes, we have quantified it: the measure would save 12 cents per litre of fuel, offsetting the $3.8 billion that French people spend each year on the increase in taxes that occurred on January 1, 2018 and you never returned to. For a family, it would be 280 euros earned each year on the fuel bill and 60 euros on the gas or electricity bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We hope that you will agree and that we can convince you to adopt this amendment. In the meantime, the Republicans will not endorse your policy on the cheque book: you will understand that, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u93	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u94	The Government presents the draft as an ordinary text that would reconnect with the virtuous tradition of year-end budget collectives. That's not the case. Indeed, its scope is not limited to end-of-management adjustments; On the contrary, as well as the draft budget for 2022, it essentially serves as a vehicle for presidential election measures, while revealing the continuing deterioration of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u95	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u96	First, if you are right in referring to the growth rate, which you estimate to be 6.25%, you should not say that it is not the result of an acceleration but of a catch-up. France is one of the three European countries that experienced the biggest recession in 2020, at which time growth fell by 8%. So we will have to wait until the end of 2022 – and again! – so that we can hope to see national wealth regain the level it should have achieved if it had continued its trajectory of 1.2% or 1.3% of annual growth. Secondly, the structural deficit is rising sharply. According to the opening article of the text, it will reach at the end of the year 5.7 points of GDP, two and a half times more than in the years 2017-2019, where it revolved around 2.3 points. As the Chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out, the crisis cannot be held responsible: this 3.4% increase in GDP, i.e. 83 billion, is solely the result of your failing budgetary governance. Thirdly, the additional 20 billion tax revenues have not been allocated to reducing this deficit. Taking into account the loss of non-tax revenues, you could at least have mobilized some 15 billion; You didn't do anything about it. The HCFP even notes that, contrary to what it advocated in its opinion of 17 September, this additional resources is not devoted to deleveraging, but rather to new expenditure. This decision surprises the Libertés et territoires group all the more because, in the draft budget for 2022, the Government chose to contain what it called the debt covid to the tune of 165 billion and to commit itself to repay it "by the fruits of growth, which will result in the additional revenues". It would seem, therefore, that you have already resolved not to apply your own doctrine. Fourthly, you artificially reduce the burden of public debt. At the end of 2020, it amounted to 115 % of GDP; you have just announced that it would reach 115.1% by the end of 2021, while the actual deficit is 8.1% of GDP. How can we explain this miracle, ladies and gentlemen? In a very simple way: in 2020, the government overfunded the deficit by 2.8 points of GDP – it was not I who said it, but Mr.Dussopt who told us in committee. After all, 70 billion euros are so little! Thanks to these cash operations, as he pudically calls them, the Government has a mattress that allows it to hide the sharp increase in debt in 2021, as it did in 2022. Apart from over-financing, our debt reached 112.2% of GDP at the end of 2020; At the end of 2021, 113.4 per cent. In addition, in the Maastrichtian accounts, the amount of public debt is reduced as a result of the system of issuing premiums.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u98	They still represent 13.8 billion in flows and will continue to accumulate to reach 103 billion in mid-year, or more than 4 points of GDP. We should put an end to this accounting illusion, so that Parliament knows the real level of public debt. Fifthly, in clause 12 of the bill, inflation compensation, which concentrates 3.6 billion payment credits, would be more deserving of the name of an election bonus. As with the tariff shield, our group deplores the government's choice to release the cheque book – an option that reveals an urgent decision – rather than to initiate tax reform. If we support the idea of accompanying citizens in the face of rising fuel prices, the mechanism you are proposing is unfair and poorly calibrated. Unfair, first of all, because you require employers and communities to bear the cost of an immediate payment, starting in December, without a quick refund, while the end of the year is difficult for some. I note, moreover, that the state refuses to set an example: it has postponed payments to 2022 to its own agents. Second, persons with more than one employer, pensioners engaged in a supplementary activity, will receive this allowance several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u99	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u100	Finally, it is fundamentally unfair not to take into account the income of the household: an employee earning less than 2000 euros a month, married to a senior executive who earns 5000, will receive the bonus, unlike a single woman who raises three children with 2100 euros a month. Moreover, the device is poorly calibrated: the text, very elliptical, refers to a decree the fixing of a number of principles,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u101	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u102	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... and the allowance is diverted from its original objective. For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u103	Thank you, Mr. de Courson. We will take away a minute of speaking time... Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u104	Since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, amending finance bills have been chained up. This second PLFR for 2021 can be described as an end-of-management PLFR. Our group, in any case, will oppose it. This is no surprise to anyone, since we defended a motion to reject a few moments ago. I will not go into technical detail – it has already been done – but I still want to touch on a few points. In total, the PLFR provides €6 billion in net credit opening – in fact, €14 billion in opening with €8 billion in cancellation. These significant movements demonstrate an approximate allocation of the funds related to the crisis. They also show, to an extent that is not negligible, the reflection of the obvious tendency of the State to spend and redeploy unconsumed credits. The real novelty of the PLFR is its Article 12, where we find the famous inflation check giving rise to a €3.8 billion appropriation on the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission. This €100 cheque, originally planned to cope with rising fuel prices, is now presented as a response to inflation in general. A very broad term for a cheque whose terms of attribution remain unclear – as we are referred to a decree – and poorly adapted to many situations, according to what we understand. [[Smiles and exclamations on several benches of the LaREM group]] For our part, we have defended some proposals for more tax justice, which we do not find in this PLFR. This is where our differences are fundamental and probably irreconcilable. I don't know if this is due to your right-wing DNA but your conception of wealth distribution is not ours and your claim of purchasing power gain does not apply to all! There is com' and there is the reality that a majority of French people live in; They will recognize each other without difficulty. We wanted to increase and strengthen the exceptional contribution of high incomes in this unprecedented period, to strengthen solidarity: circulate, there is nothing to see! Last year, I tabled a bill in favour of the contribution of high incomes and high wealth to the national solidarity effort. She was swept away with a back of her hand, although she was asking more topical questions than ever. More than ever, our compatriots need a stretched hand and a strong message. It is not a check of 100 euros for some who will change the deal, nor the incessant gifts made to the most affluent. A fair balance is to be found, but you do not want to consider it; It's irresponsible. You could have increased the single lump sum (SRP) rate to 35%, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u106	A small step, certainly insufficient, but a small step! Well, no! Among our proposals, we also want to go back to the reduction in production taxes. These absurd declines reduce the fiscal powers of communities and cut back their resources. The removal of the housing tax (TH) has a worrying collateral effect. A study by the Institute of Public Policy points out that in the context of the mechanism of the correction coefficient – the famous coconut – "these results involve long-term and dynamic transfers, from less populated and lower-income municipalities on average, to more urban municipalities on average where the purchasing power of residents is more important". It's not acceptable and we're going to have to correct the shot! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] In the end, this end-of-management budget collective is traditional because it takes over everything that has made the DNA of the majority: its refusal to see reality in the face, its refusal to take the problems through the right end, its refusal to accept social and fiscal justice and its refusal to involve the different oppositions. In the face of this choice of a policy that is not evolving, of which you refuse to change the record and to which you refuse to integrate social and environmental issues, we have no choice but to renew our opposition to this PLFR. Things have not changed since 2018: if the French are no longer on the roundabouts, their anger and their sense of abandonment remain the same. Unfortunately, it is too late for you to change your certainties – certainties still ginned last night by the head of state who looked rather like a campaign leader, not to say to a camp leader.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u107	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u108	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u109	Last night, I heard thirty minutes of bonus from candidate Macron. The candidate Macron doesn't like the poor, so he decreed that there was no more. It doesn't matter that since 2017, there have been 1 million more students and homeless – without a fixed home – added to INSEE statistics. And it doesn't matter that these poor people are always poorer. I invite candidate Macron to join a food aid queue to dare explain the opposite to those who are hungry and volunteers, who can no longer replace the state. The candidate Macron does not like the unemployed any more, so he hardens the conditions of access to unemployment and threatens half of them, who are paid, to lose their compensation if they do not accept the imaginary job supposed to reach out to them on the other side of the street. It doesn't matter whether there have been 284,000 job cuts in one year in our country, or that many of the jobs that make it possible to arrange unemployment statistics only have the lifetime of one ephemeral or only a few hours a week. On the other hand, candidate Macron likes his rich buddies a lot, so he never stopped giving them perennial gifts throughout his quinquennium. It doesn't matter that the wealth of the country's 500 largest fortunes has already increased by almost 100% since 2017 and by 30% in just one year. On the other hand, if candidate Macron doesn't like the handlers, he fears them. So since, on the eve of the presidential elections, he can no longer hide the problem of purchasing power that his propaganda had tried to deny, and since he wants to prevent other yellow vests from disrupting his end of reign, he decided to remove two measures from his hat: those found in this PLFR. Unlike the gifts he gave to the rich, these measures are punctual – above all, they are weak, inadequate and even a bit of a nigaud catch. It's normal, you'll tell me, since it's a bit like that that he sees the handlers. One of these two measures is the €100 rab on the energy check. This measure is a bit ridiculous when we know that it does not compensate at all for the rise in energy prices, that the price freeze comes only after more than 57% of gas prices rise in less than a year and that 12 million people in France are cold at home or struggling to pay their energy bills. The measure is all the more ridiculous since these EUR 100 will be partly financed by VAT revenue due to the increase in these prices. Worse, revenues lost as a result of the tariff shield will be offset in 2023 by higher-than-expected regulated tariffs. In short, they are not only short-term and insufficient solutions, but also they are paid by consumers themselves – delayed, obviously, after the elections. The other hidden measure of this PLFR is the inflation compensation, which is also ridiculously low: it amounts to less than 10 euros per month for a year. It is also financed by the revenues of the nation, and above all by the revenues of oil tankers, as well as by the VAT recovered on the rise in fuel prices. As the price of fuel has not been blocked, this increase should quickly devour the poor 100 euros of all those who will have the misfortune of having to continue filling their tank. Anyway, yesterday, once I had finished with this thirty minutes of campaigning by candidate Macron, weary of his propaganda and his wooden cheques, I had a dream.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u110	Ah, ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u111	I was surprised to dream of another PLFR, the one that President Mélenchon will ask his government to propose to Parliament in July 2022: a PLFR where we will not simply launch major communication plans without any positive effect on people's lives; where, rather than endorsing the rise in energy prices, they will be blocked at the rate prior to the recent increases and where the first kilowatt hours and cubic metres of electricity and gas will be made free of charge; where the 1 million poor in our country will benefit from a real guarantee of autonomy to stay above the poverty line; where young people will finally be able to reach the RSA before 25 years of age and benefit from the creation of 300,000 young people's jobs. In this budget, the SMIC will finally be increased seriously, to 1,400 euros net. Rather than stigmatizing the unemployed, threatening them and removing them from the lists to invisivize them, a job guarantee will be created that any long-term unemployed person will be able to claim, while the others will be compensated from the first day of unemployment. The whole will be largely financed by the return of a strengthened FSI, the removal of tax niches, the creation of a universal business tax or the recasting of income tax into fourteen tranches. We have diagnosed over 110 billion revenue in our counter-budget, which I invite you to read. I tell the people concerned in theory by the measures of this PLFR, and above all by the measures that we announce through the programme of candidate Mélenchon, that they have the means to make this dream come true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u112	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u113	On the occasion of the examination of this amending budget, allow me to draw up an initial economic and budgetary assessment. Despite the epidemic, which is still present, the economic context is very favourable and we have good reasons to be proud of France: it has regained its pre-crisis level of activity three months ahead, it has remained the most attractive country for foreign investment for the second consecutive year and it has achieved its best quarterly growth since 1968, with 3% in the third quarter of 2021. These good economic results do not come from anywhere, they are the result of our choices since the beginning of the quinquennium and, even more so, during the health crisis. They are also a reflection of the serious budget that we have been showing since 2017, and of which this second amending budget is an illustration. With a public deficit of 8.1 % compared to 9 % last spring, and a target of 5 % for 2022 deemed plausible by all, we will have cleared in two years more than two thirds of the deficit generated by the crisis when, within the same time frame, those who are now giving us lessons had made only half the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u114	Coué method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u115	We are honouring our commitments, because recovery is a success. It was launched in 2020 with the France Recovery Plan, which provides for 100 billion euros of investment and which is successfully deployed: nearly 55 billion euros have already been committed and 70 billion euros will have been committed by the end of the year. In this amending budget, we redeploy what works best: the plan "1 young, 1 solution", support for the ecological transition, in particular to the MaPrimeRenov' system, or the extension of the system Territories of Industries. We do so because we have concrete results: the unemployment rate, at 7.6%, has been at the lowest since 2008. The high level of protection during the crisis and the strength of economic recovery allow us, with this amending budget, to act on the exit of emergency measures and look to tomorrow. However, if the order books of our companies are full and we must rejoice at the strength of the economic recovery, we cannot ignore its collateral effects: a sharp rise in energy demand, a strong pressure on raw materials, an explosion in the cost of transport and, therefore, a surge in prices. The challenge of exiting the crisis is therefore also that of inflation. Our responsibility is clear: to continue to protect the French, as we have done since the beginning of this mandate. To deal with the explosion in energy prices at the beginning of the winter, we have already voted for the tariff shield for gas and electricity prices. With this amending budget, we add an exceptional and individual aid of 100 euros to cope with the inflation, which is also exceptional, of the cost of many products of everyday life: petrol but also food and clothing, for example. Thirty-eight million French people who receive less than 2000 euros per month will benefit from this: 38 million employees, self-employed workers, civil servants, students and alternates, job seekers, pensioners, adults benefiting from the social minimums will receive this aid in the coming weeks. In addition, the six million most modest French households will receive an exceptional energy check of 100 euros: it will help them face rising energy prices and heat up. Doing this is not "burning the caisse"; It is to ensure, as a matter of responsibility, that all the French will be able to heat themselves properly this winter. Finally, through this amending finance bill, we continue to support economic activity and employment as engines of growth through which we fund our projects. In agriculture, EUR 500 million is allocated to finance support measures related to freezing episodes and current avian influenza. In the world of culture, we are also providing additional support, amounting to EUR 227 million. In short, this budget reflects our strategy since 2017...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u116	That's what we're worried about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u117	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... i.e.: investing heavily in the mechanisms that work for the country and for the French; seriously manage every euro of public money, in order to have the necessary room for manoeuvre when the situation so requires; undertake to deploy additional means to protect our citizens in the event of a crisis. For all these reasons, the La République group is in the process of voting for this amending finance bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u118	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u119	In the preamble, I would like to denounce the deplorable conditions under which we are considering this text: the documents were obtained 24 minutes after the start of the ministerial hearing, the examination in committee took place on a Saturday, and the amendments were to be tabled on Monday before 13.00. That you despise Members of Parliament, Mr Delegate, we understood that well, but you could at least respect the work of our colleagues – because to table amendments one Monday before 13.00, we have to work on Sundays.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u120	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u121	In addition, on the eve of November 11th, many of our colleagues have already had to return to their ridings, which deprives them of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u123	You want to discourage us from sitting, you wouldn't do it otherwise! As a result of the economic situation and the ad hoc expenditure announced by the Head of State in the middle of the review of the 2022 finance bill, we are asked to examine an end-of-management collective that includes inflation compensation and support schemes for the training of employees and jobseekers. Things have changed since the first PLFR in 2021, which we supported. The text that you presented to us in June 2021 had to be part of a dynamic of revival, while gradually leaving the health, economic and social emergency regime. It also provided for an additional EUR 15.5 billion to abound the exceptional support arrangements until the end of August. The review of this second PLFR for 2021 is taking place in a context of supporting household purchasing power and extinguishing emergency measures, and even more of exploding public expenditure and sustained debt – debt reaches 115.3% of GDP. Public expenditure would amount to EUR 1444 billion, or 55.7% of GDP in 2022, up 1.9% from the pre-covid level. We have noted that some of the new spending was not intended to be sustainable, including measures to support purchasing power, but it is our duty to warn you about the long-term consequences of this crazy debt race. As the HCFP points out, the increase in tax revenues linked to the dynamism of the recovery is not devoted to debt relief. The additional tax revenues – €3 to €5 billion – are unfortunately offset by an increase in new spending, which we regret. We therefore continue to sound the alarm about the debt: it will exceed 3000 billion euros next year, almost 45000 euros per French. We are not fooled: the apparent decline in the amount of debt is not the result of a reduction in the deficit, but simply of the state's cash operations. We are convinced that debt remains a major issue in the coming years – not to say, in the coming months. We live with a sword of Damocles above our heads. This is a problem that will have to be tackled in a much more concrete way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u125	What debt reduction strategy does the Government propose? We're still waiting for him. Can the promise not to increase taxes be kept? When will a real strategic plan for reducing public spending be finally presented, including hunting for waste and bureaucracy? Rather than finance new expenditure by raising taxes, it would be high time for the state to assume its share of responsibility by committing itself to compensate for any new expenditure by abolishing an unnecessary expenditure: this is the position of exemplaryness that I defend with the IDU and independent group; This is a strong commitment that we must make to our fellow citizens. After calling your budget incomplete last September, the HCFP alerted us a second time about the uncertainty surrounding government spending. Although we understand the increase in the employment authorisation ceilings – particularly for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, given the compensation for the damage caused by the freeze and the checks made necessary by the Brexit – we regret that the operators' employment ceiling was revised upwards in 2021, to 226 full-time equivalents worked (FTEs), the majority of which – 184 FTEs – benefit the regional health agencies (ARS). Yet there would be much to say about the role that the latter played during the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u127	The UDI-I Group supports the measures taken to combat the covid epidemic -19, when they are relevant and justified - and I will have the honour to present next week, in the Committee on Social Affairs, a bill to deal with patients with long covid. The fight against the epidemic requires financial support, subject to a good territorial shift that makes it fully effective. In this regard, it is not justified to devote additional resources to RSAs; It would even persist in error. Therefore, this PLFR will not reverse your trend towards public spending and over-administration. On the other hand, in the face of a structural energy issue, rather than your short-term answers in the pre-election period – gift vouchers costing the state $3.8 billion – our group will present an amendment aimed at permanently abolishing the VAT applied to energy taxation, which is nothing more than a tax on a tax. At a time when the French and French are denouncing the injustice of taxation to which they no longer adhere, it is our duty to provide them with real solutions, by reintroducing meaning into the tax system. [[Mr Jean-MarieSermierapplaudit]] The real challenge of this PLFR should be to find a balance of accounts in an unprecedented context of exit from crisis. We regret that, as it stands, your bill does not allow it. Members of our group have proposed many measures to improve the budgetary situation: for example, the fight against social and tax fraud, or the reduction in the number of national agencies. I call on you to become aware of these issues, to get out of denial and to engage in a constructive discussion on this budget proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u128	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u129	There is good and at least good in this amending finance bill; Above all, there is a gap between the urgency of the French and French, faced with the surge in energy prices, and the decisions that the Government finally decides to take. Let us note a good point: an aid of 100 euros is intended for those who receive less than 2000 euros per month. But while this effort is significant for some, it is obviously far too limited, especially for households most exposed to energy poverty. We have tabled several amendments to increase the amount of this exceptional aid, for the six million households receiving the energy check, from EUR 100 to 400. What a mismatch between your proposals and the reality of the French! Today we are celebrating the first national day to combat energy insecurity. Let's get back to the numbers. Last winter, 60 per cent of households reduced their heating, 25 per cent had difficulty paying their bills, and 20 per cent were cold. What is the Government waiting for to act? What, in particular, is it waiting for to help households to undertake large-scale, comprehensive and efficient renovations, which would allow energy bills to be divided by three or four times? This is what the French need, not to be announced the construction of EPR – pressurized European reactors – which will be born in fifteen years! We must help them reduce their energy bills, and we do not understand why you refuse to act in this area. You will certainly tell us that you have created MaPrimeRenov', but only 0.1% of the files relate to global renovations, which can divide energy bills by three or four. The Government can do much more, by launching a new aid scheme focused on the most precarious households, with a remaining charge zero. It is also necessary to strengthen the MaPrimeRenov' and Habiter serenity devices for the most precarious households, as the figures are ridiculous: 50,000 efficient renovations were carried out in 2021! We cannot be satisfied with it. We also hope that one day you will decide to tax those who benefit from the energy crisis: as a reminder, TotalEnergies has raised $4.8 billion in net profit in the third quarter of 2021, and 11 billion since the beginning of the year – and again, the year is not over! Throughout the financial statements, this group welcomes its good health, which it owes to the increase in the price of oil. The Government cannot remain silent. Finally, we must stop granting subsidies and guarantees to fossil energy projects abroad – unfortunately, our amendments in this direction will probably be rejected by the majority. We have often had this discussion; Each time, you explained that France was one of the best countries in the world in this field. But today, France is lagging behind. Under the current COP26 in Glasgow, all major countries – with the exception of France – have committed themselves to stop giving guarantees to fossil energy and coal production projects abroad. France wears the donkey cap! Germany and the Netherlands made this commitment yesterday, Spain did it today... We're the only ones missing. Unfortunately, you have decided not to do anything: this PLFR testifies to this. That's too bad. At the opening of COP26, the President of the Republic called on all countries to act; The result: the others have done so much more firmly than France. We are on the way to ranking among the countries lagging behind. It's time to react. We are counting on you, Minister Delegate, to relay this word.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u130	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u131	I now call the clauses of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u132	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u133	From the 2021 forecast, we finally know only the actual deficit, which is 8.1% of GDP. For the rest, between the structural deficit, one-off measures and cyclical measures, we no longer know where we are. I therefore propose to leave these blank boxes in the table – unless the minister delegate gives us further explanations on this new introductory article?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u135	Although this is an appeal amendment that questions the Government more than the commission, I will make two clarifications. First of all, the fact that the emergency appropriations were first taken from the cyclical balance, and then from the structural balance, obviously changed the various balances considerably, as the crisis progressed – we have talked about it many times, so I will not come back to that. Secondly, as I stressed during the general discussion, it is extremely difficult or impossible, in such a context, to anticipate certain major budgetary movements. The main aggregates and balances are changing more significantly than usual – this is the case since the crisis broke out. My opinion on the amendment is therefore unfavourable. Beyond that, I invite us collectively to show humility in the great aggregates of public finances, in the face of a crisis of such a nature. Rather, let us collectively rejoice in the good news: growth is higher than our expectations, and the deficit is lower than we could have feared.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u137	Unfavorable opinion. Budgetary documents must respect some kind of formalism in the presentation of structural, cyclical and other aggregate balances. I agree in part with Mr de Courson's point of view. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the current economic situation is very volatile and the denominators such as the numerators used to calculate these balances move frequently and sharply between two forecasts. As a result, the distinctions and usefulness of these indicators are certainly to be relativized in the period we are going through. Nevertheless, we need these documents in the PLF as in the PLFR; That is why we are committed to it, even if this debate is legitimate. For the rest, I agree with the rapporteur-general's arguments: beyond the relative impreciseness of these indicators, there is an improvement in the economic situation which should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u138	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u139	In the fourth line of the table, which concerns one-off and temporary measures, it is indicated – 0.1 GDP point, or 2.5 billion – we agree? However, the only measure in section 12 is estimated by you to be 3.6 billion. So that's not possible! And the initial finance law for 2021 included other ad hoc measures. Do you therefore explain how you achieve this figure of – 0.1 point of GDP for one-off measures? I don't understand. I remember you told us in committee that this table had no meaning for 2020 and 2021, and that it would only be in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u140	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u141	This amendment, which I announced in the general discussion, aims to update the level of the public deficit to 8.2% of GDP, to take into account the adoption of an amendment in the Senate yesterday in the context of the consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill (PLFSS), which raises the level of ONDAM by 1.7 billion euros. The rounding game, if I may say so, leads us to correct the level of the government deficit from 8.1 to 8.2 per cent, knowing that, if the difference between the forecast for growth estimated at 6.25% and the growth that will actually be seen at the end of the year is positive – which we hope – this figure will be revised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u143	Favourable notice, by stating that this revision does not change – I say it by probably anticipating Charles de Courson's question – the components of the balance, since it is only a matter of rounding the level of the public deficit from 8.1 to 8.2 per cent, as a result of the amendment adopted in the Senate as part of the review of the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u144	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u145	I didn't get past primary school, but I learned to count. If you go from 8.1 to 8.2 deficit, by what means do you compensate between the structural balance, the cyclical balance and the one-off measures? You can't just say that it's no big deal and that it's just pupees. That's not the case! If you sum up, you don't get 8.2% deficit. I'll make you a friend's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u146	Let's negotiate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u147	Increase point measurements, from – 0.1 to – 0.2. Otherwise, we don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u148	Mr. de Courson is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u149	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u150	We will table a sub-amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u151	It's primary school level! We all have our certificate of study.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u152	Not me! In my day, he didn't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u153	Minister Delegate, if you want to react, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u154	He can't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u155	It must be a new arithmetic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u156	Answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u157	The reason is purely arithmetic: this is the rounding rule. The rapporteur-general has already pointed out that we were on a big 8.1, if I may say so, and we are moving on to a small 8.2, but that does not alter the components in any way, under this same rounding rule. We could indicate values that include up to two digits after the comma, but that never happened. We go from the bottom tenth to the top tenth, it's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u158	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u159	This is an appeal amendment by President Valérie Rabault, which recalls the history of the distribution between cyclical, structural and one-off measures, as Mr de Courson pointed out. The European Commission has intervened to recalculate these components; This is regrettable, especially since this is a real subject for future multi-annual programming which we will have to consider.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u161	Unfavourable notice or, rather, a request for withdrawal. I will give the same answer as Charles de Courson previously: the structural balance and the cyclical balance did indeed move much during the crisis, because of the Government's choice to include emergency appropriations first in one and then in the other, in order to be consistent with the other European countries and to take account of the European Commission's calculation method.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u162	We are addressing the consideration of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2021. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 75, which seeks to change the title of the first part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u163	This is a clarification amendment: the first part is entitled "General conditions for financial balance", but, as we face growing deficits, it would be better to speak of financial imbalance. What are the general conditions for the growing imbalance in public finances? Let's innovate – or stop doing the opposite of what is displayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u164	We come to the amendments on the additional article before Article 1. Amendment No 16 by Mr Eric Coquerel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u165	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u166	We have already defended this amendment which aims to reserve to the community of Corsica a fraction of the product of the TGAP (general tax on polluting activities) waste collected in Corsican territory, in accordance with a deliberation adopted by the Assembly of Corsica in 2019. I am not going back to Corsica's difficulties in this area. The aim is to enable the community of Corsica to resolve waste problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u168	Unfavorable opinion. I am sticking to a principled position: we are looking at an amended end-of-management finance bill, for which we are following collective discipline not to introduce new tax provisions. This is particularly true when it comes to amendments that we have already considered in the first part of the PLF and that we will find ourselves in the second part of the examination of non-attached articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u170	As the rapporteur-general has just pointed out, we are systematically focusing on the fact that there are no new tax measures in the draft amending budget for end-of-management legislation, considering that the game is not replayed on a permanent basis. This is a constant, but also a guarantee of the stability of the tax rules. While it was legitimate for parliamentarians to submit amendments to defend their position, the Government would, in general and without exception, in principle be opposed to any amendment of a fiscal nature, at the risk of such opinions being formulated very briefly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u171	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u172	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u173	I hear the minister's response. Nevertheless, in view of the various amending financial laws that we have been examining for a year and a half, it would have been necessary, if only to make a tax payable to those who have benefited financially from the crisis, to refer to the revenue register. This amendment, which we consider necessary, aims to reintroduce 14 income tax brackets so that it is fairer and more redistributive. According to our calculations, the measure would benefit all people earning less than 4000 euros a year – the vast majority of French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u174	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u175	This is an amendment that we regularly defend, in particular because we do not get a satisfactory answer. It is intended to remove the Research Tax Credit (RTC). I will probably not receive an answer, but I would like to say in advance that removing the RIC would not prohibit the provision of case-by-case assistance to companies, particularly SMEs, in the field of research. In the meantime, it is necessary to put an end to this system, which grants money to companies without conditionality, costs very much and does not prevent some of them from eliminating jobs in France, including in the research sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u176	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u177	One of the positive elements of the PLFR is the inflation allowance of EUR 100. The aim of this amendment is to raise it to 400 euros for the most vulnerable households, i.e. those who currently benefit from the energy check. We also propose to increase support for overall energy renewal and vehicle change. I do not understand why the Government persists in not introducing a zero-rate eco-loan to promote vehicle replacement throughout French territory, rather than only in low-emission mobility (ZFE-m) areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u178	Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u179	I repeat, even if the minister delegate will simply give an unfavorable opinion: why do you not want to make a gesture to encourage global energy renovations? It is easy not to answer me, but how can you satisfy yourself with the 50000 global renovations carried out last year, when you declare it a priority? How can you assume to do so little, when this Wednesday, November 10, is the first national day to combat energy insecurity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u180	On Amendments Nos 109 and 110, which will be called in a moment, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u181	The purpose of this amendment is to provide an incentive tax framework for hydropower generation plants operating in non-interconnected areas (NIZs). The amendment does not aim to compensate consumers for the additional costs of generating electricity linked to less favourable conditions and physical handicaps. This role lies in the compensation set up by the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) in the name of national solidarity. It is intended to encourage communities that wish to invest in hydropower, with all the benefits that this implies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u182	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u183	The aim is to introduce in France a tax on multinationals – the so-called universal tax on multinationals – in line with the profits they make in the country. I will not go into detail, since I am only given two minutes, but the work of economist Gabriel Zucman on the subject is very serious. On the basis of a rate of 25%, it is estimated that this tax would recover EUR 26 billion, and that it could lead to other countries in a virtuous follow-up. So that I am not told that France has not waited for the amendment to act and that it has favoured the introduction of a global tax of 15% on multinationals, I would remind you that this tax will certainly encourage some countries to tax these companies less – the opposite of the effect sought. It is essential to tax multinationals, like all other companies, in line with their real profit in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u185	[[Smile]] I note that you systematically quote Gabriel Zucman in your amendments. I have a great deal of respect for his work, but I invite you to refer to other economists as well. Comparison of the different analyses is always interesting. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Contrary to what you are saying, Mr Coquerel, it is thanks to France that the principle of a global minimum tax rate of 15% on companies was adopted at the international level, which everyone thought impossible at the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's presidency. We must all recognize this and congratulate ourselves on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u187	Let me make two points. The first is that I fully agree with the rapporteur-general and that I share his satisfaction at seeing the fight for global taxation move forward. If we had been told four years ago that an agreement would be reached in 2021 between the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the G20 for a global tax on multinationals of 15%, we would have had trouble believing that. My second point is not related to the amendment. In a few moments, I'm going to have to join a meeting that I can't get away from.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u188	We'll miss you, but we understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u189	[[Smile]] My colleague Cédric O, Secretary of State for the Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, will replace me until my return, which I hope will take place around nine o'clock. I will be able to continue with you the examination of the PLFR or the non-attached articles. So don't be surprised at my departure, which I beg you to apologise for. For those who regret it, know that it is only provisional. Sorry about the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u190	I note that Mr. Gosselin is one of those who regret it! The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u191	As I said in committee to Mr Coquerel, the step taken at world level to introduce a minimum tax of 15% on companies deserves to be welcomed! Let us take into account what it means. Such an advance would not have seemed realistic a few years ago. Of course, everything is in the art of execution and we do not yet know how this tax will be implemented in practice, but I wanted to stress that. It should also be noted that the countries in which multinationals generate their turnover will benefit in several cases. While these benefits will be less important than expected, it will be possible to revise the taxable base based on consumption without allowing multinationals to house their profits wherever they wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u192	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u193	I would have appreciated the presence of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery today. This is rarely the case in budgetary discussions, which is not normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u194	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u195	You still have the deputy minister responsible for public accounts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u196	Mr. Couldn't the Mayor have replaced you, Deputy Minister? His absence and your departure are not positive signs. As for France's role in introducing the 15% global corporate tax, it should be recalled that US President Joe Biden had proposed a minimum rate of 21%, which France, like others, considered too high. So it doesn't seem to me that we were exemplary on this case! I repeat, moreover, that this 15% tax will not solve the problem of the gap between the activity declared and the real profits – on this point, I give you an appointment for the next Pandora papers. Nor will it allow the removal of the unofficial tax havens of the European Union – the countries at the heart of the Pandora Papers. I am even afraid that it will induce countries with corporate taxes above 15 per cent to cap the tax rate applied to multinationals to pay their entire tax in their territory. In total, perhaps multinationals will no longer be able to find refuge in countries where taxes are almost non-existent, but they will benefit from lower taxes in all states than they are today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u197	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u198	Some here like to rewrite the story! During the questions to the Government on 13 April, I began my question to the Prime Minister with these words: "It seems that this time, to the west, there is something new, even a revolution. Joe Biden, just elected, had just launched the proposal for a minimum tax of 21% on multinationals. At the time, the minister had kindly sent me back to the ropes. Since then, water has sank under bridges and it now seems to support the 15% tax. Good, but, please, let's not rewrite the story!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u199	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u200	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 109 and 110, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u201	I do not see any inconvenience, as for me, that Mr Cédric O...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u202	The excellent Cedric O!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u203	[[Smile]] [[Same movements]] ...siege on the benches of the Government, provided however that it issues a favourable opinion on my amendments! If, Mr. Secretary of State, you are no more generous than Mr. Dussopt, you can go back! I will defend two amendments: one big and one small.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u204	We'll take the kid!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u205	They concern the exceptional contribution on high incomes (CEHR), which is currently 3% for single taxpayers receiving between €250,000 and €500,000 and 4% for taxpayers receiving between €500,000 and €1 million. With Amendment No 109, I propose that these two rates be raised to 6% and 8% respectively, i.e. by doubling them. Knowing, however, your narrow vision, I have tabled a small withdrawal amendment – as our colleague Charles de Courson would say. I would like to see, as in poker, if you are able to take risks and, as I said earlier, take a small step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u206	And a big step for humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u207	By this amendment, I propose that these two rates be raised by only one point: from 3% to 4% for single taxpayers who earn more than 250,000 euros and from 4% to 5% for taxpayers who earn more than 500,000 euros. Please note that if a family receives EUR 510000, only EUR 10000 above the EUR 500000 threshold will be subject to the ECHR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u208	That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u209	I explained everything to you. I now appeal to your conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u210	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u212	These amendments come back regularly. I'll stop for a moment. Since I served as rapporteur-general,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u213	Excellemment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u214	... I would like to stress to you that income taxation is not only a matter of rate, but also a matter of base dynamics. The flat tax illustrates it perfectly. Despite the reduction in the rate, this tax levy has brought more to the French state thanks to the widening of the tax base resulting from France's greatest attractiveness – finally! – in particular with regard to investments and dividends. Income taxes are not exempt from this phenomenon. The small step proposed by Comrade Dufrègne would, in reality, be a very big step from the point of view of fiscal zigzag and the flight of assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u215	Solidarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u216	First of all, know that an increase of 1% of the ECHR would suffice to make this tax confiscatory and unconstitutional,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u217	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u218	... proof that we are very close to the ceiling for the highest incomes. I will not go back to the fact that 70% of the income tax proceeds (IPRs) are paid by 10% of households – you know that. France has the most redistributive IR in the world, which I welcome as well as you. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] If my opinion is unfavourable on the two amendments, it is not because of the rates they propose – on which we could theoretically join – but because we refuse to deviate from our initial promises on taxation, thanks to which we have finally managed to create in France a dynamic of growth, investment and sustainable employment. We promised the French that we would not increase taxes and this promise will continue to apply to all categories of the population in a constant and sustainable manner. The increase in taxes is the wrong response to the crisis, both for businesses and for households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u219	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, whom I am pleased to welcome, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u220	[[Smile]] Believe me, Mr. Dufrègne, I wish I had responded favorably to your cry from the heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u221	You can still!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u222	I am afraid to be very disappointing, whether it be the big or the small amendment, because I agree with the rapporteur-general on the question of taxation, even if I will make it less brilliantly. [[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let me return for a moment to the comparison that is often made, on one side of this House, between France and the United States. I'll tell you, I'm always surprised at this comparison! We act as if the new American administration was wearing the standard of triumphant socialism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u223	They're progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u224	... but even though President Biden would double or triple the effort in income taxation – he could, like Jean-Paul Dufrègne, do a poker trick! –, the United States would remain far from France's level of taxation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u225	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u226	The figures are clear on this point. Let us therefore make sure that we do not confuse dynamics with photography. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Similarly, we were criticized for not including social spending in the recovery plan, unlike President Trump. Fair enough, as our American friends say! However, a country in which a child's enrolment in kindergarten costs an average of $800 per month can afford to provide some social expenditure in its stimulus plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u227	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u228	I obviously support Jean-Paul Dufrègne's amendments. Mr rapporteur-general, the exceptional crisis we are experiencing alone would justify calling into question the promises of the beginning of the quinquennium. You do not cease to state, rightly, that this crisis is exceptional.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u229	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u230	In exceptional crisis, exceptional measures! The exceptional, though moderate, contribution proposed by the amendments could easily be explained by the crisis. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You have certainly not increased the IR – you have even lowered it – but this tax is the only progressive tax we have left after the majority's removal of the ISF. On the other hand, you increase taxes, which are anti-progressive taxes. I am thinking, of course, of the ICTPE, but also of the carbon tax, the increase of which was such that it triggered the movement of the yellow vests. You prefer taxes, unfair taxes, progressive taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u231	That's really bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u232	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u233	I want to bounce...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u234	Not too loud!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u235	...in your words, Mr. Rapporteur-General. The important thing, you say, is the tax base. When it increases, the State's resources also increase. To support your demonstration, you have taken the example of flat tax, but you forget to specify that some company managers who previously received a salary now earn dividends...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u236	If they're shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u237	... to benefit from the 30 % UFP applied to them. You also claim that a 1% increase in the rate of the ECHR would be tantamount to confiscation. But who really confiscates others, Mr. Rapporteur-General? Isn't it the taxpayers whose incomes are so high that confiscate small taxpayers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u238	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u239	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u240	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I note one thing: you do not want to confiscate the wealthiest of our fellow citizens; on the other hand, confiscating the unemployed is no problem for you. Of course! For you there is an invariant to which you must not touch: tax gifts, especially those made to the richest. And there is another invariant, which consists in the opposite way of always taking the same, especially the poorest of our fellow citizens. Secondly, the rapporteur-general, your speech may seem very calm and very certain of itself, but stop explaining that the flat tax has an impact on investment. That is not true: all reports contradict you and you have provided us with no evidence to support such an assertion. Yet you keep repeating it as a truth that should be believed. Again, the third report commissioned by France Stratégie on the subject – there are three who say the same thing – does not see the trace of the effects of the flat tax on investment! So stop repeating that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u241	You're the one who repeats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u242	We understand that you didn't even bother to provide us with figures that would prove it, since that's not true. Of course – my colleague Dufrègne just said – we expected the dividends to explode! That was the purpose of the measure. You can't tell us: "Look, the flat tax works, as the dividends explode! » Since people have every interest in paying dividends to reduce their taxes, the corresponding amounts are taken on other ways of earning income, including wages. That's the reality! Whatever the end of it is considered, it ends up costing the revenue of the State while always enriching the same people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u244	I put to the vote Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u245	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 6 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u246	I now put to the vote Amendment No. 110, which is Mr Dufrègne's'small' amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u247	Yes, he's the kid, you can go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u248	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 7 Against 53
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u249	[[Smile]] We won a voice! We're gonna make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u250	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u251	It concerns again the tax credit for investments in Corsica (CIIC). It aims first of all at strengthening the rates applicable to it; Indeed, taxation must provide a fair response to each territory, and we know that Corsica's territory is subject to very special constraints, linked to its insularity and to the fact that it is a completely marginal final market. He then proposes to give visibility and confidence to business leaders by extending the ICIC until 2025 – as we know, the economy needs stability and business leaders need prospects. This tax system is, by definition, essential to support investment, and hence the creation of businesses and employment in Corsica. It is one of the most important of all those who are targeting this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u252	Did you support the next two, Mr. Castellani?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u253	Their objects are very different, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u254	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 96?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u255	Unfavorable opinion on Mr Castellani's three amendments, for the reasons mentioned earlier. As part of an end-of-management PLFR, I do not want us to change the tax bases by extending them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u256	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u257	It aims to make available to the CIIC the investments made in order to contribute to the transport of patients for health reasons, following a public order contract with a hospital. This would make it possible to integrate the purchase of sanitary aircraft into the tax credit in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u258	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u259	It aims to develop the CIIC in order to extend its benefit to certain SMEs. The General Tax Code provides that the rate of 20% is increased to 30% for companies with fewer than 11 employees. This gives rise to a threshold effect: companies located at the boundary between TPE – very small enterprises – and SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – and just above the threshold are implicitly penalized. Far from trying to alter the objective of this higher rate, we propose raising the threshold to benefit from it from 11 to 20 employees, which would extend its application to all smaller companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u260	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 118, on which the Group of the European People's Party has requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u261	This is a landmark amendment in this PLFR for the Republican Group: it aims to remove the "taxes on the tax" which lead to an increase in the tax burden borne by the French on fuels but also on fluids such as gas, water or electricity. The existence of a tax has been exaggerating the French for decades. Removing VAT based on ICTPE and all taxes on fluids would increase their purchasing power on a sustainable basis; It would also be a fair measure as it would be proportional to the expenditure made by each citizen on energy and fuel. It is not normal for an increase in energy prices to increase both taxes and VAT based on these taxes: finally, the higher the price of energy, the higher the revenues of the State! We want to put an end to this situation by abolishing VAT on all taxes that affect fluid consumption. You are going to tell us, Mr rapporteur-general, that such a measure would be contrary to a European provision, but I believe that France can be a manoeuvring force to make a difference. We are not just here to accept things; We can also defend proposals – that is at least what we want. I would add that the adoption of our amendment would reduce the price by an average of EUR 6 per 100 litres – that is what many of our citizens consume every week, especially in rural areas. This would therefore be a measure that would be favourable to purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u262	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u263	That is a concern that we share with our colleagues in the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u264	You share everything now with them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u265	We have been trying to put the subject on the table for several months, explaining to you that at a time when our citizens are hit hard by rising energy prices, VAT on taxes is no longer sustainable. Earlier, you mentioned the flat tax and welcomed the fact that its bases were increasing. You're probably right, but in this case, we can't welcome an increase! In fact, we are dealing here with something essential and we cannot accept that the state is increasing its revenue on the daily life of the French. The price of energy is rising and, unfortunately, it is very likely that this will continue. So, rather than distributing multi-billion-dollar gift vouchers, perhaps it would be time to take a concrete step forward: let's act on VAT! It is also unbearable for you to take refuge behind European rules to justify your refusal. If we cannot react to what Europe decides, if the states cannot intervene and if the next French Presidency is not an opportunity to put such a subject on the table, then what are we doing here? That's what's at stake, too! Once and for all, let us try to get together around a table to make possible what we are proposing and to put an end to these taxes on taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u267	This is again a subject that we regularly debate – and legitimately – in the Chamber. Before replying to the amendment as such, pay attention, Mrs Louwagie, not to suggest, as I have heard in particular on the benches of the FI Group, that we would finance the energy check or the inflation allowance with State revenue such as VAT: that is not true! I would point out that for public finances, the balance of all the measures taken in favour of purchasing power in relation to the rise in gas, electricity or fuel prices is negative: it amounts to more than EUR 8 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u268	But it's circular!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u269	So we're very far from the pool you're talking about – if only, I want to say! It costs 8 billion euros to public finances. As regards the specific case of the tax, I would rather agree with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u270	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u271	The problem is that VAT was built as follows: Article 78 of the November 2006 VAT Directive specifies that VAT applies to the price already composed of various taxes and levies. The fact that VAT is a tax on the tax is therefore inherent in its operation. We can find this rather unfair or even absurd, and I am not far from thinking like you, but it is the very functioning of VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u272	But the rules are made to be changed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u273	Will it be necessary to rethink the scheme when drawing up the next VAT directive? I, for my part, am more of that opinion. So, of course, your amendment cannot be adopted as it stands, since what it proposes is contrary to Community law, but I am sensitive to your argument: if we want to strengthen the consent to tax in our country and in Europe, we must first make taxation, including Community taxation, consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u274	So, what's the favorable opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u275	Unfavorable opinion, therefore; you will have understood the reasons, because you are a parliamentary group responsible and respectful of Community law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u277	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u278	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u279	I would just like to express my feeling about the principled problem of tax – we have been trying to solve it for decades. You have written an excellent book, Mr. rapporteur-general, entitled La Fabrique de l'taxe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u280	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u281	You develop the following idea: for a tax to be consented, it must be intelligible and understandable, and a relationship of trust must really be established with respect to it. But our fellow citizens do not understand why they have to pay a tax...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u282	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u283	...and this puts successive governments in difficulty. In 2000, when the Jospin government introduced the floating domestic tax on petroleum products, it did so because it was accused of inflating VAT revenues, which is a tax on the entire price of the product, including the tax that relates to it. But, given that the overall price of fuel was rising and that the TIPP, as it was called at the time, was a flat-rate tax, the latter's revenues had finally declined – and this was higher than the increase in VAT revenues. So the floating TIPP never worked! There is a real lack of confidence on the part of our fellow citizens in this type of tax. It is the same for the fraction of CSG – a generalised social contribution – that is still not deductible from income tax. It's a subject you're familiar with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u284	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u285	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The problem of VAT on different excise duties certainly arises in other European countries! I think it is absolutely necessary for us to unite our efforts in this area. The Committee on Finance also exists to take into account problems that are not reducible to our various political sensitivities, and it must try to deal with them. Indeed, if we want taxes to work, our fellow citizens must consent and establish a relationship of trust; However, they do not understand the principle of tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u286	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u287	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u288	[[Smile]] We have just met with the Socialist and related group. We will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u289	[[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout smiles]] It was President Habib who convinced you, maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u290	The debate has been hot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u291	Certainly, yes! It is true that the amendment is expensive and watering wide, but, as Mr Carrez pointed out, there is indeed a form of absurdity in this tax phenomenon. And then it still concerns a particular tax which is much more difficult to bear for the most modest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u292	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 10 and 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u293	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 13 Against 27
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u294	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 121.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u295	This is again a fallback amendment. Since it is not possible to abolish VAT on energy taxation – in some way, we hear it – it aims to increase it from 20% to 5.5%. In this case, we are not at all opposed to the European Union, since Thierry Breton himself indicated that it would allow the states to act in this direction. We are therefore moving in the direction of Europe and of what our European Commissioner is proposing. We could at least adopt this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u297	I was referring to it when the text was presented, if the reduction of taxes is an option, it is not the right one. First, it would have a rattling effect: after lowering the ICTPE or the ICTFE – internal tax on final electricity consumption – it is extremely complicated to go back. And almost all of us here are anxious to see our public finances return to balance. It is then important to target aid against the inflationary effects of energy prices. The budget solution, through the use of energy cheques and inflation compensation, is more efficient and faster to implement, I prefer it than the tax solution. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u299	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u300	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u301	Clearing mechanisms such as the energy check or inflation compensation are increasing. Each time, exorbitant mechanisms of the common law are tinkered with, and apply certain criteria to the blind. Thus, 38 million of our fellow citizens will benefit from the inflation compensation, it is a good opportunity and no one will come spit in the soup. But it is distributed a little blindly, because if resources are taken into account to decide the beneficiaries, it will benefit people who no longer travel, live in retirement homes, have no means of locomotion and use public transport, and so on. We're working on some answers. The advantage of a reduction in VAT, in the absence of a reduction in taxes, is that it is applied to every user of the different services in a smooth way on a daily basis. As Mr Zumkeller rightly points out, there is no problem of compatibility with European law. By reducing VAT from 20% to 5.5%, the message would be clear to our citizens. Today – and this is not entirely new – we see that consent to tax is difficult because the tax is neither clear nor legible and a number of our fellow citizens feel like they are being "fucked" by paying VAT on taxes. The problem goes beyond the current majority, and all governments are concerned. Let us take advantage of the French presidency of the European Union to move this issue forward quickly from next January.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u302	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u303	We obviously support this fallback amendment, because we believe that this measure is more effective than inflation compensation. For two domestic workers, one of whom has access to public transport, while the other takes his car every day, an aid of EUR 100 will not take the same proportion. Moreover, VAT is therefore a very unfair proportional tax: in the budget of a smicard, it weighs much more proportionally than in the budget of a member of parliament or an executive at Michelin. I must apologize to you, ladies and gentlemen, for having to leave you in order to take the last train to return to my constituency. I do not expect to be absent at the commemoration ceremonies on 11 November, tomorrow, but this deprives me of the continuation of our debates until midnight tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u304	I'm afraid you're not the only one, but our schedule is that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u305	However, we can denounce him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u306	It is true that it is not very well designed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u307	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u308	The rapporteur-general claims that it is not possible to reduce the VAT rate from 20% to 5.5%. Anything is possible, it's enough that we decide it here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u309	I didn't say it wasn't possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u310	I know you're going to pretend that it's not possible because of Europe, but it's possible, you need the will. You do not have it and you contradict yourself because social justice induced by the drop in VAT from 20% to 5.5% would have beneficial effects over time, unlike the €100 allowance. If someone fills his gas with those 100 euros, the state will collect 60 in taxes. Actually, you're giving 40 euros. VAT is a social injustice and our proposal to increase the exceptional contribution on high incomes from 3% to 4% would provide the necessary resources to compensate for the drop in VAT from 20% to 5.5%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u311	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u312	I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, how you can defend such a measure. Whether it is a question of reducing VAT or removing the tax, acknowledge that you contribute to the resentment of the French and their refusal. If we lower the tax on the tax, the government's revenue would decrease and we would increase the VAT in proportion...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u313	No! We can take the richest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u314	... or else the deficit would have to be increased, and I do not think that this is the party responsible for this amendment. In addition to being antisocial compared to inflation compensation, the drop in VAT is totally anti-ecological. And I do not understand that the left can defend such measures. Indeed, that's why Nicolas Sarkozy imagined the green check to compensate for the increase in the carbon tax. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is necessary to keep the price signal on all polluting activities and fossil fuels, and thus to help the most modest people by social compensation. We cannot defend the measure you support if we have a little social and ecological ethic. I don't understand that we're doing it on the benches on the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u315	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u316	Mr Bruneel, please listen carefully to my arguments. I have never mentioned the European VAT Directive on this amendment – this argument concerns the previous amendment. It is possible, in accordance with European law, to reduce VAT. It is a matter of political choice. Like Mr Alauzet, I am very surprised to hear Mrs Pires Beaune and Mr Bruneel defend this idea. If it is a much more antisocial measure than we propose, it is indeed the reduction in taxes, which will be sustainable and will have to be compensated by other measures, probably worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u317	You can compensate for it with savings!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u318	We propose a budget allowance, targeted for those who earn less than 2000 euros, and you favour a tax reduction that will affect all deciles. This is not consistent with what you usually defend in the budget debates, it is really surprising. I recall that in 2012, Nicolas Sarkozy said that the reduction in fuel taxes was a demagogic measure, and I agree with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u319	What about taxes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u320	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u321	Mr rapporteur-general, your comments contradict those you have made with regard to the amendment to abolish VAT on taxes. You acknowledged that we were a little bit right because the existence of taxes on other taxes is exaggerating the French. We need to answer the question of consent to tax. We understand that there is a difficulty because of a European directive, but France must ask for it to evolve, otherwise it is no longer useful to be a legislator. The measure we are proposing is right, things have changed from 2012. Energy prices rose significantly: 57% for gas. It is very important to provide an answer to all households that are faced with additional expenditure of up to 600, 700 or 800 euros per year. We give an answer, you make a different political choice, but you decide not to provide a lasting answer to this situation. We propose a lasting response in favour of the purchasing power of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u322	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u323	We are calling for the abolition of the UFP. Under the guise of simplification, this is, with the abolition of the ISF, one of the Government's main tax gifts to the richest. Inequalities have increased. The alleged beneficial effects on investment have not been proven, on the contrary. Following the introduction of the UFP, the dividends reported for income tax in 2018 were 64% higher than in 2017. The increase was even 71% in 2019. While there has been no impact on investment, the impact on public finances is well documented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u324	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u325	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u326	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u327	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u328	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u329	I would like to return to the opinion of the Committee on the Evaluation of Capital Taxation Reforms. In 2019, he found that the most affluent tax rate was higher than in 2017, despite our capital tax reforms. As the economic situation has been favourable, the tax bases have expanded. The introduction of the UFP was accompanied by an increase in social levies on capital income. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You keep saying that the UFP has not had an impact on the investment, the evaluation committee concludes exactly the opposite. Of course, it is not possible to assess the direct impact of the PFU, therefore the increase in dividends paid to a shareholder, on the investment in the company that paid the dividends. But the UFP allowed these shareholders to diversify their investment portfolio into other companies. This is known as the diffuse effects of the investment due to the PFU. Stop saying that the reform of capital taxation has had no effect on the increase in capital, that is not true. Evidence of this is that our country has become very attractive for foreign direct investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u330	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u331	The aim of this amendment is to reverse the removal of the housing tax for the 20% of the richest taxpayers. The Government claims to remove it because of its unfair character, and it is right: the rental values taken into account have not been revised since 1970, the amount of the tax can be completely decorated with the standard of living of taxpayers. The richest 20% – 6.3 million households – will benefit from an average gain of around 1158 euros. They alone will receive 8 out of the EUR 17.6 billion in the state budget as a result of this reform. The argument of tax justice is not valid. I would add that this measure was not even included in candidate Macron's program.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u332	I have before me two amendments, Nos 17 and 89, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u333	We call for the restoration and strengthening of the ISF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u334	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u335	It aims to set up a climate ISF, an idea that is starting to make its way – we have already discussed it last year. This involves re-establishing the ISF, expanding its base, providing fewer exceptions, fewer exemptions, for example for works of art, and increasing rates only for the largest fortunes – more than EUR 5 million. This tax would also be subject to conditionality in order to encourage financial investments in activities that are beneficial from the point of view of the ecological transition – for example, having obtained the Greenfin label – which are within the scope of the social and solidarity economy or which are part of socially responsible investment. The climate ISF would therefore have a dual virtue: a tool of tax justice, it would at the same time allow to redirect financial investments towards sectors favourable to the ecological and solidarity transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u336	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u337	It deals with the reduction of production taxes. In the amount of EUR 10 billion, it benefits companies that, moreover – I would remind you at COP26 – are the most polluting. This additional gift to companies, as part of the recovery plan, had almost no effect on the recovery plan...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u338	Of course I do! You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u339	Anything? You'll explain this to me, but ask for the floor and let me finish. The multiplier effect of this measure for recovery is estimated to be only 0.3 by the OFCE while it deprives public finances of 10 billion. You make small gifts to everyone and then we come to talk about the debt! However, this reduction of 10 billion benefits polluting companies because – and I stress this point – small businesses only benefit at the margin. We therefore ask you, by this amendment, to reconsider this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u340	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendments Nos 107 and 108, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u341	With Amendment No 107, we propose to go back to the halving of the ACVEN. This measure adopted in the PLF for 2021 offers 10 billion to companies, although they have already benefited during the quinquennium from an eight-point reduction in corporate tax. Moreover, not all companies benefit from this, since the CVAE is paid only by those whose turnover exceeds EUR 500000. In addition, the progressive scale reduces the taxation of SMEs. It is estimated that two thirds of the decline in the ACVE is captured by only 3% of companies, particularly financial ones. This very expensive measure is in no way a stimulus. Like other general and non-target tax cuts, it will have no effect on the real economy, i.e. employment activity. In the same spirit, we propose, by amendment No 108, the reduction of the CFE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u342	I have before me two amendments, Nos 22 and 82, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 22 by Mr Eric Coquerel is being defended. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u343	We propose that energy suppliers, who may expect, after rising energy and fuel prices, to make a contribution, pay their fair share. I would remind you that in the third quarter, rising oil and gas prices allowed them to increase their profits very sharply. Total has thus accumulated €9.7 billion in gains since the beginning of the year. If this amendment were not adopted, the measures taken by the Government would be a transfer of money from the State to households, then from households to suppliers, and finally from suppliers to shareholders. By adopting it we would put a little order in all this by charging those who can afford it today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u344	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u345	This amendment aims to introduce an exceptional tax – I insist on this last word –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u346	Ah! A tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u347	...on the profitors of crisis, in any case on those who benefited from it. Indeed, as the last report of the Multinational Observatory reveals, while 100 % of the CAC40 companies received public aid linked to the covid crisis -19, almost 51 billion euros were paid to their shareholders in the form of dividends, or 140 % of the profits made in 2020. Moreover, since spring 2020, and cumulatively, the CAC40 plans to eliminate some 30,000 jobs in France. By this common sense amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u348	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u349	... we therefore propose to tax at 50% the surplus of real profits made during the crisis, in relation to the result over the same period the previous year. I would point out that this tax applies to companies with more than 500 employees with a turnover of more than 750 million euros – you see that we are not exaggerating. I would add that an exceptional measure of this nature has already been taken in the past – as we have told you many times – for example in 1916.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u350	[[Smile]] Charles de Courson was already here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u351	The deputies of the Third Republic had in fact decided, during the war, to tax companies so that they could contribute to the collective effort. It is therefore simply a question of asking companies that have made profits because of the crisis, or rather because of the crisis, to participate in the war effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u352	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u353	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u354	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u355	We are approaching the examination of the second part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u356	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 28. I invite you, Member, to prepare your arguments in advance when you have to intervene, otherwise we will waste time each time. Once or twice, pass again, but once you have 30 amendments to defend, it is more delicate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u357	It is precisely because I have 30 amendments to defend and because they are discussed in a state of disorder that it is delicate, Mr President: it takes me a few seconds to get the right paper back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u358	It's the time you're wasting that's a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u359	However, I will do the best I can. The aim of this call amendment is to transfer EUR 400 million, in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, from the Energy, Climate and Postmines programme of the Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility mission to a new programme that we would call the Renovation of 700000 housing units per year. It is at this rate of 700000 homes renovated every year that progress is needed to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. The Government's measuring devices, the first of which is the MaPrimeRénov' system, will not achieve this objective: this premium is far from sufficient to meet the ecological and social challenges of thermal insulation. The Court of Auditors itself emphasises this in its flash audit published on 30 September: "the quality and efficiency of the work in the field of combating thermal colanders and energy insecurity is not ensured".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u360	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u361	It aims to allow the transition to 100% renewable electricity generation by 2050. I know that it is time to promote nuclear power, but it does not guarantee much. First of all, it is not the assurance of our energy independence, since there is no uranium in France – not that I know, at least. It also does not permit the production of continuous energy: half of the reactors were shut down all or part of September 2020, due to a maintenance schedule disrupted by covid-19 and drought. Does nuclear power at least provide us with energy at a lower cost?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u362	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u363	Nor: the current price of nuclear electricity is already much higher than that of several renewable energies – because of the expenses associated with the maintenance of power plants, renovations, waste management and I am moving on. Does nuclear safety escape the risks inherent in climate change? Certainly not: we are on the path of a global warming of 2.7 degrees by the end of the century. However, the water cycle, on which the cooling of nuclear power plants depends, is already severely disrupted. The probability of an accident, if it is certainly low, is therefore not zero. Even if the risk is only 1%, this assumption, if realized, would cause 100% damage. That is why it is important to plan and intensify research on renewable energies. This is what we are proposing with this amendment, in accordance, moreover, with the conclusions of the studies published by the association negaWatt and by the Electricity Transmission Network (TEN).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u364	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u365	The aim of this call amendment is to transfer €80 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations from the mission's Transport Infrastructures and Services programme to a new programme entitled Investments in the rail sector. While the Government claims to show a great deal of voluntarism in favour of the railway, in particular invoking the redemption of SNCF's debt, the Hexagon is in fact already twice as many railway lines as in the 1930s and continues to lose. The dismantling of SNCF – which you have also programmed – is not only a regression for French mobility: it is also a real ecological disaster. While rail transport accounts for 10% of passenger and freight traffic in France – which is nothing – rail accounts for only 2% of the energy consumed by transport and 1% of the greenhouse gases they emit. However, rail freight and passenger transport continue to decline to the benefit of polluting road transport. We would therefore like to alert you to the need for a much more massive investment in the rail industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u366	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u367	It aims to transfer €80 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the Mission's Facilitation and Secure Trade Programme to a new programme called Strengthening Tax Control. The Government claims that combating tax evasion is one of its priorities. Yet, he has constantly made clear cuts in the number of staff dedicated to controls! I hear in advance the argument that you will oppose me: an increase in the number of agents would have no effect on the effectiveness of the controls, nor on the results obtained. However, I do not know whether to establish a causal link between the two, but we find that the results of the tax control are particularly bad: the tax and penalty adjustments notified by the tax authorities reached only EUR 10.2 billion in 2020, a decrease of more than 25% in one year and more than 50% in five years. Of course, Bercy boasts a sharp increase in the amounts received quickly. But cashing is not controlling; Remember that this increase in the amounts immediately received was allowed by a massive use of amicable procedures, which do not involve conviction or fines – only small payments. These low-cost sanctions, in addition to being a real violation of equality before the law, represent a huge loss for public finances. That is why we believe it is necessary to strengthen the appropriations allocated to fiscal control: obviously, there is a link between the staff and the results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u368	Amendment No 3 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u369	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u370	By this appeal amendment, we call for stronger support for food aid associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u371	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u372	It aims to transfer EUR 1 billion in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations from the State-funded programme Financing of the inflation allowance from the Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities Mission to a programme that we propose to create and title Guarantee of Autonomy. Inflation compensation is only marginally targeted at the poorest households: in reality, it waters everyone a little. Increasing the social minimums and the SMIC, which are paid to a specific population, would be a much more effective lever for action. The option chosen by the Government has the advantage of being visible and having a lower cost! In view of the intensification of poverty highlighted by INSEE, we propose to pay people who need it a monthly income equal to the poverty line, i.e. 1063 euros. In this way, France would no longer have a poor person, who survived with 560 euros per month of RSA. Such a measure would cost around €25 billion a year, slightly less than the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit (CICE). It would also be beneficial, because its cost would be offset by the increase in VAT revenues allowed by increased consumption: it is simply a question of triggering the mechanism for stimulating activity by demand, not by supply, as you persist in doing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u373	Doing what works, you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u374	... thus creating poor people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u375	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u376	The best way to combat poverty is to increase the SMIC by raising it to 1,400 euros net per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u377	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u378	The aim of this appeal amendment is to transfer 1 euro from the State-funded programme of the inflation allowance of the Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities Mission to a new programme called Gas Price Blocking. Gas tariffs have exploded: its regulated price has increased by 57%. There have been several dramatic increases since the summer: 10% in July 2021, 5% in August, or 8.7% in September. For 3 million French, the gas bill has increased by 500 euros in five years. The measures taken by the Government would in no way compensate for the increases experienced by consumers. The extra energy check of EUR 100, for example, does not even compensate for the increase in energy prices and will be financed in part by the increase in the product of VAT, as I indicated by presenting the explanation of vote of the La France group insoubted on the motion for prior rejection. With this amendment, we want to bring the regulated tariffs back to the levels they set before the recent increases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u379	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u380	The regulated price of electricity is revalued every six months; In September, the re-evaluation for February 2022 provided for a 12 per cent increase: the Government's tariff shield allowed the increase to be limited to 4 per cent by 2022, but the tariff shield merely smoothed prices over time. So this has nothing to do with a decline. Moreover, this is very short-term, since the measure does not address the causes of the price increase in any way. As one engineer pointed out in a forum published in Le Monde: "The rise in electricity bills experienced by all users in Europe, in a more or less marked way, is essentially linked to the market, which imposes an indexation on gas prices. Before the liberalisation of the electricity sector, wholesale prices did not exist. Regulated tariffs were based on the production costs of the electrical system. As a result, they were changing slowly and would have had little impact on the rise in gas prices, both in France and in many countries in Europe. » Public authorities must restore their capacity for action in the energy sector. That is why we are alerting you by this appeal amendment to the need to rebuild a public energy service to regulate and, above all, control prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u381	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u382	After gas and electricity, you are proposed to block the price of petrol: 1 euro – this is of course still a call amendment – would therefore be transferred from the programme relating to the famous inflation compensation, which is in no way sufficient, to a new mission Blocking the prices of petrol.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u383	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u384	In the same vein, it is proposed to draw 1 euro from the State-funded programme to finance the inflation allowance for a new programme Blocking the prices of five fruit and vegetables within the Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities mission. Since the beginning of the mandate, the Government has torpedoed national solidarity, leaving associations to deal with growing inequalities. I recall that Mr. Saint-Martin explained to me that the Government had increased aid to associations by that and through various means. Of which act. However, again this year, food aid is experiencing a scandalous decline in its appropriations: it is 12% – even if it may be offset by other things – a loss of more than €8 million, after a similar decrease last year, when the use of food aid has increased in volume by 11%! In this context, it is more necessary than ever, not only to provide food aid but also to block the prices in this sector, particularly for fruit and vegetables, so that they remain accessible to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u385	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u386	There is a real problem in the calculation of income that determines eligibility for inflation compensation. According to article 12, the last ten months, from January to October, would be based on little more information, for lack of knowledge of the draft decrees or decrees, which could render ineligible an employee who would have received his end-of-year bonus in January rather than December. We therefore propose that the average monthly income over twelve slippery months, from October 2020 to October 2021, be used as a basis for calculation to avoid unfair evictions from the scheme. In the same vein, it would be appropriate to increase the ceiling to make a little more people eligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u387	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u388	The Finance Law for 2020 acts the transfer of the recovery of the annual francisation and navigation fee – DAFN – to the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – from 1 January 2022 but without any legal support. The transfer of the base and control of the said right is still under way, even though the provisions of the law provided not for such a broad change but only for the transfer of the recovery. All this has serious consequences, starting with the abolition of customs posts, although the determination of the base and the recovery of the DAFN require total customs expertise. In addition, such a situation asks us about the evolution of the rate applicable in Corsica, which makes it possible to pay more than EUR 5 million annually to the community of Corsica. Our amendment therefore proposes that customs retain competence for the DAFN.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u389	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 10. Mr Charles de Courson's Amendment No. 4 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u390	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor in support of Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u391	The aim of this amendment is to amend a provision of the Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum, the aim of which is to correct an error of coordination introduced in the tax provisions of the Code by the Order of 16 December 2020, which would restore the state of the previous law, i.e. before 1 May 2021. Indeed, the case of exemption from the residence permit tax which concerns the first issue of the resident card to members of the alien's family holding a resident card as a refugee was then removed – I know that it is a bit technical, but this is nevertheless very important for the families concerned. This exemption must therefore be reintroduced into CESEDA. In addition, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know whether the payment of this tax has been required since 1 May 2021 by mistake in certain prefectures and, if so, is a refund of the families concerned envisaged?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u392	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u393	This correction is indeed necessary and very welcome, as we discussed it during the examination of the PLF. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u394	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u395	Your amendment is aimed at reintroducing into law a provision which was not intended to disappear. However, the Government wishes to do so within the framework of the PLF and not a PLFR because of its fiscal nature. That's why I'm asking you to withdraw it, Member. To answer your question, it seems to me that, in fact, the persons concerned by the exemption have not been imposed. If that were the case, I think it would be remedied. In any case, there is no reimbursement of amounts that have not been disbursed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u396	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u397	I thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State, but the committee has accepted this amendment in the framework of the PLFR because, even if it is a tax measure, it has only a corrective and coordinating aim. It would thus take effect well before the promulgation of the PLF, which would solve the problem of the enforceability date and bring this legal imbroglio to an end as soon as possible. And I maintain it all the more since the first part of the PLF has been completely examined by the Assembly, it would be impossible to introduce it again if the article in question were to be voted in the same terms by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u398	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u399	The Government is relying on the wisdom of the Assembly. I would point out that if the amendment were to be adopted, it would raise the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u400	Mr Gilles Carrez, in support of Amendment No. 119, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u401	The aim of this amendment is to correct an injustice linked to the methods of calculating the fiscal potential of municipalities which have undergone changes in the configurations of intercommunalities. I am thinking in this case of the community of communes of Arthez-de-Béarn, but there must be other cases. This is what happened: this community of communes, which exercised school competence, merged with others in order to form a much larger community of communes, but the latter did not exercise school competence, this competence came back to the original communes – in this case through a trade union since it can no longer successively belong to two intercommunalities. The new community of communes therefore provides compensation allocations (CAs) to the said communes, but these credits are recorded as additional resources in the calculation of their tax potential, thus reducing their overall operating allocation (GF), including the "elected local" allocation, even though these communes only serve as mailboxes since the credits are immediately returned to the union. We ask that this anomaly be corrected. This amendment, whose adoption should not be a problem for us, illustrates how simple our local finances are in our beautiful country!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u403	After we examined this amendment in committee, I had the opportunity to see with our administrator Benoît Anduze what was common by commune and there were no cases other than that of this particular community of communes in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, as I told you and David Habib. You have pointed out how the tax potential is calculated: there are, of course, first the tax products of the municipality, which are increased by the CAs received from the public institution of intercommunal cooperation (EPCI), but there are also intercommunal tax products, which must in fact lead to an overall neutralisation of these powers. But it seems to me that, in this case, the subject is not so much the transfer of academic competence as the merger of the EPCIs. This amendment cannot therefore be adopted as drafted. I will therefore ask you to withdraw it, and we will look together, common by common, at how we have come to this situation. You have done well to draw the Committee's attention to this difficulty and I am of course at your disposal to go further, with the Directorate-General for Local Authorities (DGCL) and with the municipalities concerned, and to dissect the fiscal potential of each of them so that everything is well understood and accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u405	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u406	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u407	We are not withdrawing the amendment. We want a vote because, as election deadlines approach, everyone has to take a stand. There is a strong interest in this issue on the ground and we will have to report to our constituents on what has happened in the Chamber. I would remind you that it is at the request of the State that the single-purpose intercommunal trade unions (SIVU) have been created. The municipalities could have retained the school competence, but the State insisted that it should be managed at inter-municipal level, within the framework of the inter-communal educational groups (RPIs), which had existed for fifty years. Gilles Carrez spoke of the community of communes of Arthez-de-Béarn, but there is a second one, Garlin; The RPI of Diusse, one of the first in France – Gilles Carrez knows this region by heart – is 50 years old. I see that Jean-René Cazeneuve raises his hand to ask for the floor; He knows the place in question, east of my riding, because he's close to the Gers. It is therefore the State that has wished this organization, but the elected ones experience a feeling of injustice: they are deprived of revenue, since they are mechanically increased their financial potential, while asking them to remain in an intercommunal structure that penalizes them. It is one of the aberrations of intercommunality. I'm worried. Initially, I thought that similar configurations existed for other skills, including road skills,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u408	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u409	...but we checked and there are no other cases. Mr rapporteur-general, we could very well have neutralised this writing game by voting on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u410	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u411	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u412	I understand your argument, but can we make a law for a specific case, which concerns only one municipality? If there is a technical problem, it needs to be analysed, and perhaps questioned by the Local Finance Committee (CFL). The powers of compensation have been included in the financial potential since, I believe, when Mr Carrez was rapporteur-general or chairman of the Committee on Finance. This mechanism is quite normal. It is in no way specific to school competence and applies to all skills. As the rapporteur-general has explained, its effect is normally neutralised since the powers of compensation paid by intercommunality to the municipalities are deduced from the financial potential of intercommunality. Gilles Carrez noted, the mechanism is very complex; But on paper, at least, there must be neutralization. We can analyse the particular case you are referring to, but I do not believe that the issue is legislative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u413	I shall put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u414	No, there's another speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u415	I'm sorry, Mr. Bricout, but whatever my admiration for your authority, I'm the one who decides who can speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u416	I asked for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u417	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u418	It is intended to extend the temporary 15% tax credit for audiovisual creations for one year. The economic situation of French radio stations, especially regional and local radio stations, is not improving, on the contrary. In these circumstances, the pursuit and support by the State of independent radio stations seems indispensable. It is about the survival of our radio stations, but also about the maintenance of the dense and pluralistic radio landscape, irreplaceable for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u419	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u420	Unfavorable. The provision has no place in a PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u421	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u422	The aim is to give time to companies in the tobacco sector in the face of the increases in the rates expected in 2022. The end of the tax exemption and the equalization of the price of tobacco take the form of a "whistle-out", which does not fail to cause problems. Our aim is not to postpone these increases indefinitely, but to give more time to the actors concerned. This has been asked of us by the trade unions, in particular the Macotab, one of the very few companies in the secondary sector in Corsica, to prepare for this tax development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u423	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u424	In order to involve banking companies in the effort to recover public finances, the amendment proposes a contribution of 10% of their net profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u425	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No 31 on the additional Rule after Rule 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u426	It aims to advance the end of export guarantees for oil and gas projects by 1 January 2022. While the Government was recently convicted of climate inaction by the Council of State and the Paris Administrative Court, President Macron, in his inaugural speech in Glasgow, urged his counterparts to enhance their climate ambitions. At the same time, on the European scene, it actively promotes fossil gas with the support of the Hungarian nationalist Viktor Orban and the Polish pro-coal government, in return for their support for its policy of reviving nuclear power. This is not his first gift to the fossil energy sector. Between 2016 and 2020, the four largest French banks injected nearly 250 billion euros into the coal, oil and gas sectors. Worse, despite the sectoral policies supposed to limit their activities in the most toxic oil and gas industries, all major banks have, since 2016, increased their financing to non-conventional hydrocarbons. In the face of this, the Government – or rather your majority, because it was you who had this idea defended – chooses to lock up French subsidies for gas projects in the form of export guarantees until 2035. We call for a return to 1 January 2022, along the lines of an ambitious climate policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u427	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor. Mr President, as you have tabled many amendments to this article, I encourage you to make a general statement which will then allow us to move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u428	You will confess, Mr Secretary of State, that Article 12 – a small jewel of 3.6 billion – is the most important of the PLFR. Is it a good idea to pay an inflation premium to 38 million French? Of course, raising energy prices is a problem, but wisdom would require that aid be concentrated on our most modest citizens. There are some 45 million French adults and most of them will be watered, with modest sums. The explanatory memorandum to Article 12 states that, on average, price increases lead to "an additional cost of around 80 euros on the annual fuel bill". Where did that figure come from? We take a Frenchman who is 14000 kilometers a year, with a car consuming seven litres of gasoline per hundred kilometers, and we calculate the extra cost of the increase in fuel prices. But these averages have no meaning! You will pay this bonus to people who are not affected by these increases; On the other hand, you won't benefit the very affected people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u429	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u430	... those I call "polydisabled" people, who live in rural areas and who heat up in fuel oil because they do not have access to city gas, and their house, classified D or E, does not allow them to heat up with electricity. Explain to us the coherence of the government project! I also wonder about the payment arrangements. The Prime Minister, who had been questioned on this point, remained, forgive me for the expression, a little muddy, answering "it's complicated", "we'll see", etc. Tell us what method you're going to apply. You say that it is the employer who has to pay; But if you take, for example, polyactives – amendments will address the subject – how will an employer A know that his employee has an employer B? They'll each give 100 euros. Can you explain how this will work for a retired, otherwise active – there are many – or for a polypensioner? If you were a railwayman and then independent, how will the caisses know which one to pay you 100 euros? Can you explain to us this organization and specify the time within which payments will be made according to the situation of each citizen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u431	Thank you, Mr. de Courson. I know you are very attached to defending your convictions, but you have greatly exceeded the time allotted to you as a speaker on the article, and this will necessarily be taken into account afterwards. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u432	As we are dealing with Article 12, which deals with the inflation allowance of EUR 100, I would like to reiterate what I have said in raising the motion for rejection: there are still many questions about this provision, even beyond the fact that it is a more than limited response to the issue of low wages and insufficient purchasing power. First, the contours of the device are for the time being unknown because they are referred to the decree; Therefore, parliamentarians will not be able to discuss the specific terms and conditions of the measure. Secondly, even if we are not familiar with the conditions for granting aid, its individualisation raises questions. Of course, we understand that this operation has been chosen so that aid can be disbursed quickly, but it causes many problems. If the household's income is not taken into account, the allowance could be unfair: it may not be paid to single-parent families, for whom an income of 2000 euros is far from being a luxury. The type of income taken into account is also problematic: you mention activity income – wages and profits for entrepreneurs – and replacement income – pensions and social income. What about the income from capital, that is, the annuities that some earn through their financial investments or the real estate they own?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u433	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u434	I propose to add the word "automatically" so that it is clear that recipients have no administrative action to take. Secretary of State, let's take a simple case. A single person without an activity, who lives with the RSA, will therefore receive the allowance from the Family Allowance Fund (FAC) or the Agricultural Social Mutuality (ASM), to which you will reimburse it – the question is the same for the Allowance for Adults with Disabilities (AAH) or other resources of the same type. Can you explain how the payment will be arranged to avoid any administrative action by beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u435	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u436	I shall comment briefly on the many amendments tabled in Article 12, mainly by Charles de Courson, because the provisions he proposes are, for the most part, of a regulatory nature. The Government will provide the necessary clarifications. On Amendment No 49, be careful: the automaticity of the allowance could have effects that you do not want – you yourself mentioned the risk of double payment. In addition, I would point out that the USSRAF will have to ask them first of all for their bank details in order to pay the exceptional aid to the self-employed or employees of private employers. Finally, the inflation compensation reveals, even if we already knew, that it is not easy, in France, to distribute money by helicopter. There are indeed different pipes, which we have anticipated. If we have the principle of this system adopted in the law, it is precisely to be able, by regulation, to specify a whole series of technical and operational details, and to deal with matters related to taxation and contributions. I will deliver an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments tabled by Charles de Courson – which are above all appeal amendments; However, I will give an opinion in favour of an amendment which we will consider a little later and which sets out the law in a relevant way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u437	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u438	Like the rapporteur-general, I will allow myself to respond in general to all of Mr de Courson's amendments. It seems to me that these are more appellate amendments, allowing us to discuss the very principle of inflation compensation, than technical clarifications. In thinking, we must proceed iteratively. We must first question the appropriateness of the inflation compensation and, in a second step, its scope – its scope. Finally, we can have a technical discussion on how to put it in place. It is in this order that we must think. First question: Is inflation compensation appropriate? You may have a different opinion, but the Government answers yes, in terms of its assessment of the economic and social situation, inflation and the subjects of purchasing power, beyond the question of the energy cheque. Then comes the question of the scope: what do we do? How far are we going? We have set a criterion: the inflation allowance will be paid up to 2000 euros of income. This criterion can be discussed. On some of the benches of the Assembly we hear that we forget the middle classes. Let me consider that, if we touch a little more than half of the French, the middle classes will be affected. Once these elements have been laid, we come to the technique. Of course, it is very complicated, and the rapporteur-general himself said: paradoxically, the desire to be as simple and general as possible is reflected in pipes which are very complicated and very diverse. In fact, some issues still need to be addressed, including those related to people with multiple employers. In any event, it is in this order that the questions must be answered. It must not be the tail that shakes the dog; It is not because we consider it complicated that we must not do it. If you feel that inflation compensation is not necessary, that it is poorly calibrated or that it affects too many people, let us debate it. But to say "because it's too complicated, you didn't have to do it" does not seem to me to be the right way to seize the subject; That would be politics backwards. We need to know what we want to do, then turn down the device and, as someone said, stewardship will follow! To answer more specifically some of your questions, I mentioned the fact that several adjustments still need to be made for people with multiple employers. With regard to the dates, the allowance will be paid in December for the vast majority of the private sector; in January for government officials and beneficiaries of social minimums; and in February for pensioners – this covers most of the beneficiaries. For the public concerned, the compensation will be paid by the pension funds or the CIFs and the State will then reimburse the latter for the corresponding amounts. Again, I'm not saying it's simple; We need stewardship to follow. In the case of polypensioned pensioners, coordination between the various pension funds should be ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u439	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u440	Secretary of State, I hear your clarifications, but I still have a question about the payment dates. If I understand correctly, for employees in the private sector, you are referring to a payment in December and it will be the main employer who will pay this aid. A number of companies pay wages within the first days of the month following the month for which the remuneration is due. If the allowance is to be paid in December, this means that it will be paid in respect of the November salary if the company pays the wages within the first ten days of the following month. If it is for the month of December, the allowance will therefore be paid in January if the company pays the wages between the 1st and the 10th of the following month. Will you be ready to give all the directives at the end of November? Payroll software needs to be developed and a number of clarifications made. Can you confirm that this will be the case on that date? That's what interests the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u441	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u442	I will answer in a very practical way: it will be on the payroll of December. If the employees are paid at the beginning of the following month, the allowance will be paid with the pay at the beginning of January. Most employees are paid at the end of the month, but in the opposite case the payment may actually take place between 1 and 10 January.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u443	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u444	My question concerns the exercise of a professional activity. In the spirit of the Government, should everyone benefit from inflation compensation, whether they are employed or not? If deemed necessary, this allowance must be paid to employees – who have travel expenses to work which, in general, are not covered for all or part by the companies in which they work – or to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u445	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u446	The opinion is unfavourable: the inflation allowance is intended for all French people who have a level of income below 2000 euros, and not only those who are engaged in a professional activity. It can affect pensioners or those who do not work. It is an aid to purchasing power which concerns all French people below a certain level of income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u447	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u448	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u449	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u450	Mr Secretary of State, you are retired to an EHPAD or to a medico-educational institute (IME)...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u451	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u452	Maybe this will happen to all of us. Is it logical to pay this aid to someone in EHPAD or an EMI? Without linking the payment of the allowance to the exercise of a professional activity, you can see that there are situations at the limit of the absurdity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u453	When you're in EHPAD, energy prices don't increase?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u454	As you know, honourable Member, EHPAD tariffs are regulated, so the increase in the price of energy does not affect them. Mr Secretary of State, what is the logic of this arrangement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u455	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u456	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u457	Mr de Courson raises a real problem: that of the criteria for awarding the allowance, which one realizes is not at all related to the use that will be made of it. Who deserves it the most? The one who needs his car to go to work – which results in a particularly heavy burden – or the one who stays at home? There is no difference between them, if only the level of income is taken into account. The allowance is not at all modulated according to the use of the car, which is often indispensable in rural areas where there is no chance of public transport. All this leads to a number of injustices from one territory to another or between those who work and those who do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u458	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u459	If the compensation is intended to take account of the increase in the price of gasoline, is its payment conditional on the possession of a car? Everyone doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u460	It's not just about the price of gasoline!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u461	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u462	Our colleague from La France insoumée has anticipated my amendment, which aims to restrict the payment of the allowance to those who use a motorized vehicle as part of their professional journeys. To my knowledge, anyone who lives in a small suburb of Paris and who takes the metro to work has not experienced an increase in the price of the ticket or the Navigo pass. On what basis would inflation compensation be paid to compensate for the increase in the price of energy? In my view, the allowance should be for those who use a car to go to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u463	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u464	Unfavorable opinion. I repeat it to Mr de Courson and Mrs Rubin: the inflation allowance is not a fuel allowance or an allowance for the movement of motorists; It is aid for purchasing power in the face of rising prices – energy, electricity, fuel, but also other goods, including food – which, precisely, has not been fixed on the basis of a particular raw material or a specific purchase.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u465	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u466	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u467	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u468	The rapporteur-general tells us that this is not a fuel allowance. Nevertheless, it was the increase in fuel prices that prompted the Government to reflect and to propose a specific compensation. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] The situation is deeply unjust for rural territories. We are a number to represent these territories where, because of the lack of public transport, travel can only be done with vehicles. This is where the increase in fuel prices weighs the most heavily on the purchasing power of the French. This is the real injustice: a compensation of 100 euros will not cover, to a very close, the costs of those who sometimes travel 50 kilometers each day to go to work – so 100 kilometers back and forth. That is why inflation compensation is truly unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u469	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u470	It would be interesting to have an impact assessment, but given the relationship between the increase in the price of all fluids and fuels and the amount of the inflation allowance, the inhabitants of urban areas and metropolitan areas will benefit more from the latter than those living in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u471	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u472	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u473	Mr rapporteur-general, what you were saying is not correct: the second paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to Article 12 explicitly states that "on average, this increase leads to an additional cost of around 80 euros on the annual fuel bill". This is why the amount of the inflation compensation has been set at EUR 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u474	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u475	It was because of the increase in fuel prices that you designed this allowance. I'm not saying it, it's in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u476	Not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u477	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u478	To please the Government, I wanted to limit the scope of beneficiaries to those whose distance from home to work is greater than 10 km. You can see that the French are not at all equal to the increase in the cost of fuels. Those who live in rural areas, as is the case in my constituency, sometimes have to travel 20 or 30 kilometres to get to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u479	Or even 50 kilometers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u480	There are all the cases. By treating everyone with a pseudo-equality, you are aggravating inequalities between the French, since you do not take into account the specificity of situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u481	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u482	This is a very important amendment. Its purpose is to specify directly in the law that the allowance will be paid to individuals whose net monthly income does not exceed 2000 euros. This criterion, announced by the Government, is indicated on its official website and in the screening assessment but is not included in the body of article 12. It is up to the legislator to set this framework directly in the law. It should be noted that this amendment does not constitute a burden within the meaning of Article 40 of the Constitution in so far as it merely establishes a ceiling. Why don't you introduce that ceiling into the law? If you decide, once the law is passed, to set it at 3000 euros, the cost will be no more than 3.6 billion but perhaps 4.5 billion. Why refer everything back to the regulatory power? It is up to parliamentarians to appreciate this level. With a threshold of 2000 euros per person, 38 million French people over 16 years of age out of 50 million will be involved. This means that you provide exceptional assistance to 70 or 75% of the French. Is that reasonable, on form and substance?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u483	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u484	It is not for you, Mr de Courson, that I will recall the principle of the hierarchy of norms. The operational application of this type of compensation is a matter for the regulatory authority, it is absolutely not new, it is normal – it is rather positive that Article 12 refers to the subject because it allows us to discuss it. You know this at least as well as everyone here. In substance, if we adopt your amendment, social benefits would be excluded from the calculation since you are targeting income from activity. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u485	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u486	This is another subject which I think is very serious. The purpose of this amendment is to limit the impact of the EUR 100 aid. Currently, the mechanism is limited to "resources" but what are resources? Activity resources? Total resources? In the case of a couple with indivisions, property and income in common, how do you appreciate resources? The husband or wife of a particularly affluent person, without being in a vulnerable situation, could benefit from this assistance while an employee whose net monthly income would slightly exceed the 2000 euro limit would be excluded. In order to remedy this lack, it is proposed to request the Government to take into account the standard of living of the tax home as a whole so that beyond a certain level of income it is no longer possible to receive inflation compensation. Let us take as an example a married couple whose wife earns 1500 euros and the husband, senior manager, 5000 euros per month. She'll get 100 euros and he won't, but what's the logic? When you're married, it's household resources that matter. This is fundamentally unfair because a single woman with children who earns 2100 euros will be excluded from the scheme, while the couple we are talking about earns 6,500 euros, or 3,250 euros of resources on average per person. Socially it's unfair, and I don't even know if you'll pass the constitutionality check.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u487	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u488	Unfavorable opinion. Beyond the substantive debate, which I do not wish to prolong too much, individualisation is the best way to create quick and direct aid. That is also why we are going through the PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u489	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u490	Unfavorable opinion. The rapporteur-general has just referred to this, and as I said at the hearing in committee, the choice of method for the payment of the allowance is based on two objectives: simplicity and speed. Simplicity, because there is no request to make and the calculation is made in relation to an individual income. Rapidity is also due to the consideration of individual income rather than the income of a household. These are our only two objectives, and in my view that is what must prevail above all if we are to be effective in responding to an inflationary peak like the one we know. What is most in the public interest is to go fast and to make it simple. I note, but it is malice, that what I am hearing here about the need to take income into account at the level of a household contrasts with other debates. If you want my personal feeling, let's go to the end of the debate and deconjugate everything – it's a personal feeling, not that of the Government – but we can't conjugate the criteria when it comes to benefit or pay and ask for deconjugalization in other cases. But this refers to other debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u491	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u492	I have not been able to speak again on the previous amendment, but I would point out that the speed and simplicity you have just mentioned are not constitutional principles, whereas justice, depending on resources, is one. The purpose of Amendment No 60, the editorial amendment, is to make it explicit in the law that the aid is likely to be paid only once for the same beneficiary despite the presence of several potential debtors. This is the problem of polypensioners, multi-employers, those who are both wage-earners and self-employed... Could the minister answer this delicate question?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u493	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u494	It seems to me that Article 12 already gives you satisfaction. Both on the other amendments we disagree on the substance, as much as I think, with regard to this one, as the wording in the text says the same thing as your amendment, in a simpler way. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u495	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u496	We are indeed satisfied with the amendment. The Government gives an opinion of wisdom, if the precision can be useful or reassuring, but I agree with the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u497	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u498	We have to vote on it. In the case of a multi-employer, who has two employers, the latter are not supposed to know what is happening and both will pay. If we put things in the law, we can claim a refund from those who have received 200 euros. As drafted, the text does not specify that a person is not entitled to receive this bonus several times. I understand the wisdom of the Government, which could even have given a favourable opinion by being more rigorous than the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u499	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u500	There are many questions about the method chosen. I hope, however, that individualization will remain a constant of your reasoning, for example with regard to the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u501	Mr. Bricout is not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u502	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u503	I find it a pity that the majority are not following the Government. This fallback amendment, compared with Amendment No 54 which we will be discussing earlier, aims to specify by decree the arrangements for automatic payment of aid for employees who combine several CSDs. Currently, paragraph 5 of section 12 is limited to referring to the Order in Council the determination of priority cases for multiple potential debtors. This is not enough. The Government, in its press kit, provides more information than the pre-assessment provided to parliamentarians. It states that for employees in short contracts – CSDs below one month – who "often combine several employment contracts in the same month, the triggering of the premium will not be automatic if the accumulated working time of the same employer is less than twenty hours. It will assume that the beneficiary expressly refers to one of its employers, preferably the one with which the employment relationship is still in progress, or failing which one for which [he] performed the most hours during the month of October. » This method of deployment is regrettable because it leads to the addition of administrative procedures for employees in an already vulnerable situation, with a risk of non-use of rights. It is therefore proposed that the implementing decree should provide for an automatic payment. For the people who are acting, two days here, three days there, who pays?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u504	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u505	On form, I find it difficult to understand. Your amendment asks that the implementing decree "specify"... That is exactly what the text says: it provides that the implementing decree will specify these modalities. Your amendment is therefore by definition satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u506	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u507	The purpose of this amendment is to include directly in the law the arrangements for the payment of aid for employees who combine several CSDs and therefore have several employers. As I said, it is not enough for paragraph 5 of the article to refer to a decree. In my view, it must be stated in the law that the payment of the premium is "made by the current employer, or otherwise, by the employer for whom the employee worked the most hours in October". It must be said who is responsible in order to be sure that there is no refusal on the part of employers and that the employee receives the compensation. This must be specified in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u508	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u509	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u510	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u511	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u512	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u513	The amendments defended by Mr de Courson reveal the absurdity of a premium watering everyone without distinction. Moreover, for the most needy, 100 euros is three times nothing. On the contrary, we propose very specific measures: blocking fuel prices for those affected by fuel prices and increasing the autonomy allowance so that people are no longer poor. Even if the number of poor did not increase during the crisis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u514	Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u515	...since the beginning of the quinquennium, there are 400,000 more poor, and the poor are poorer than before. Frankly, 100 euros, that's nothing for these people at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u516	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u517	I'm talking about putting everyone at a minimum of 1063 euros, so there will be no more poor people, and increasing the SMIC. These are targeted measures depending on the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u518	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u519	I don't know why you're watering everyone ridiculously, that's totally unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u520	In fact, 8 euros a month is not nothing for some, far from it, but it is so insufficient!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u521	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u522	[[Mrs Sabine Rubin and Mr Jean-Louis Bricout exclaimed]] I hope, Mrs Rubin, that you tell people in your constituency that 100 euros is nothing. It's probably not much for you and me, but it's a lot, in proportion to their purchasing power, for many people who are heating oil and gas. This is an expected measure, and I find your words indecent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u523	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u524	It also deals with a serious issue, which concerns students. It is intended to avoid a deviation of the inflation allowance, since, although it would seem normal to pay this aid to fellow students, it seems questionable to pay it to all students without taking into account all the parents' incomes. Under the current wording, the child of an extremely affluent family who would have chosen not to be taxed in the home of his or her parents could benefit from the assistance, this is not acceptable. In fact, as you know, given the ceiling on half the share, the most wealthy families all choose to pay, within the limit of 12,000 euros, deductible maintenance, and therefore much more interesting than half the share. Can you imagine the son or daughter Rothschild receiving alimony deductible from her parents' income and receiving this premium? Where are we going? It's a real problem. Can you explain how the device works for non-students? The amendment would, in any case, limit the measure to scholarship students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u525	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u526	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u527	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u528	Also unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u529	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u530	To echo the rapporteur-general's remarks, I confirm that EUR 100 is not nothing, even if EUR 8 per month does not seem to be much. When, in my constituency, I see that the person who passed right before me at the gas pump took up 10 or 20 euros of fuel, it asks me questions. We do not do this to get back to the pump more often, but because at the end of the month, it is not in tens of euros that we count, but in units. For these people, that amount is something. However, this is not enough, for example, for a living aid worker who earns barely 1000 euros in the month, who has to make many trips and who sometimes has dependent children. The effort could have been greater for these families, who in this case are not targeted. Your text does, of course, intend to limit the benefit of the premium to the most vulnerable, but not to concentrate it on those who need it most, especially in rural areas, as was pointed out earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u531	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u532	Some social categories receive remuneration in cash – the amendment refers to peripateticians, but there are others – and therefore there is a specific tax system to impose them. I don't know if you're interested in these questions, but how is this bonus paid to these categories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u533	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u534	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u535	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u536	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u537	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u538	I am replying to what the rapporteur-general said a moment ago. You're the one who's indecent! You know what 100 euros are? Of course, when you earn 500, it's a lot, but it's indecent to earn 500 euros! That is why we are asking for an income of 1063 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u539	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u540	[[Smile]] So we won't know how peripateticians can get 100 euros. That's too bad. I come to Amendment No 69, which seeks to ensure that, in the case of temporary workers, the allowance is paid by the temporary worker, not by the company in which they work. Mr General or Mr Deputy Minister, could you clarify this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u541	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u542	Again, this will be clarified at the regulatory level. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u543	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u544	This issue will be clarified by regulation. We were concerned about this situation: the acting agencies know how to ensure the coordination necessary for the payment to be made by the agency holding the most important contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u545	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u546	If I had had the opportunity, I would have withdrawn the previous amendment, Mr President, since the Minister-in-Office, as far as he is concerned, answered my question precisely. The aim of Amendment No. 70 is to regulate directly in law the issue of homeworkers employed directly by private individuals. The Government's announcement has raised many questions from individuals who employ an employee at home. It does not seem desirable for these individuals to advance the sum of EUR 100 on behalf of the State, especially since, often, several people can be employed at home to make the meal or household. These employers are therefore disturbed by the announcement of the Government and ask us how they would be eligible for the payment of EUR 100. There is a high risk of fraud and multiple collection of aid, as an individual is not able to know how many other individuals his home employee is also employed in parallel. While the legislator must first lay down the main principles before referring the terms to a decree, the wording of article 12 merely refers all the provisions to a decree, without any indication or even setting at least a framework for the regulatory power. It is therefore proposed to explicitly state in the law that individuals cannot be regarded as debtors of assistance in the case of homeworkers. The question then arises as to whether the State will pay the sum directly. Can you shed some light on the situation of these people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u547	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u548	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u549	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u550	The allowance will be paid directly by the USSRAF. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u551	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u552	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that every French person receives the aid as soon as possible. Currently, the Government intends to schedule the payment of the €100 aid according to the debtors, with differentiated dates, as explained earlier by the Minister Delegate. This will allow some beneficiaries to receive the aid in December, while others will have to wait until January or even February 2022. If I had humor, I'd say it would still have to be paid before April 10th! This situation is likely to lead to a breakdown of equality. For example, for a pensioner in cumulation of employment, the aid will be paid as early as December 2021 by the employer, but for a single pensioner, the preliminary assessment of Article 12 provides, in point 2 (c), that it "will be paid by the pension funds by February 2022". This three-month lag seems too big. The amendment would therefore provide a guarantee to ensure fairness in the payment of the aid on time, which should be paid in full between December 2021 and January 2022 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u553	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u554	You are still proposing to introduce into the law what is not at the legislative level. One cannot regret having too much talky laws and too many standards while extending the areas of intervention of the law to an excessive extent when it is not necessary. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u555	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u556	This is an anti-fraud amendment, which tends to provide for means to combat fraud from now on, in particular in the face of the risk of double compensation, particularly when there are several employers who may be liable for the aid. Currently, the Government merely states, on its inflation compensation website, that "persons are thus obliged to inform other employers who might be able to pay them the allowance, in order not to receive a double payment. It's still a rather strange anti-fraud mechanism! You ask the person who is eligible to receive this premium two or three times – for example, because he or she is an active pensioner or because he or she has three employers – to report it to all potential debtors. It is necessary that implementing decrees specify the means of combating fraud, in particular with regard to the exchange of information between administrations, which does not depend on the regulatory power, but requires a legislative mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u557	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u558	The purpose of this amendment by my colleague Michel Castellani is to explicitly include in the law that the implementing decree drawn up by the executive to implement the inflation compensation will take into account only the income from activity received between January and October 2021 for employees and for public officials. The aim is to prevent certain workers from being excluded from the benefit of this EUR 100 aid by taking into account the premiums which are often paid in November and December. The current wording of article 12 does not provide any guarantees as to how compensation is to be calculated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u559	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u560	It is intended to draw the Government's attention to the situation of public servants who are made available, which may give rise to difficulties, in particular for the territorial agents of the communities. When an official of a municipality is made available, he is paid by the municipality and then the host structure makes repayment, which may make it difficult to identify the debtor responsible for the payment of the aid. It is therefore a question of asking the Government to clarify clearly, in the implementing decree, the rules on the payment of aid for the civil service, in particular in cases of making available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u561	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u562	This issue was raised last week with Minister Amélie de Montchalin during the review of the appropriations of the Mission Transformation and Public Service. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u563	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u564	What's the solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u565	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u566	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the Inflation Compensation Enforcement Decree addresses all the issues raised by the current system. Thus, in the case of a person who has been employed from 1 January to 30 September 2021 and who is retired with a lower income and less than 2000 euros net from October, it is difficult to know the methods of calculating his eligibility. The risk is that the decree will provide for an average monthly income throughout the year, at the risk of not taking into account the change in the situation that occurred in October. The purpose of this appeal amendment is therefore to compensate for any risk of non-contemporaneisation in the payment of the aid. It is necessary to take account of the situation in October of the beneficiary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u567	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u568	It is a great pity that we have no reply to these amendments, while we have had it on other amendments, which in some cases prompted me to withdraw them. Amendment No 43 was an amendment of withdrawal, in the event that another of my amendments would be deemed inadmissible on the ground that it would constitute an injunction to the Government – which has, unfortunately, been the case. It aims to ensure that employers and other debtors are reimbursed promptly by the State before the end of 2021. This is a real problem: many small and medium-sized enterprises find it extraordinary that the state asks them to pay by the end of December, on the payroll of December, this aid of 100 euros without knowing when they will be repaid, and on what terms. Can you enlighten us about that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u569	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u570	We will therefore not know how soon small, medium and large enterprises will be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u571	As soon as possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u572	As soon as possible, it is worthy of an answer from Warrant Officer Kronenburg on the cooling time of the barrel of the cannons: some time! The purpose of this amendment is to seek clarification from the Government on the timing of the payment of aid and on the deployment of the reimbursement by the State. At present, the indications given by the prior assessment of Article 12 are very imprecise and leave serious doubts as to the timing of the payment of the aid. While some beneficiaries will benefit from assistance as early as December 2021, for example, scholarship students without a professional activity, others – state agents – will have to wait until January 2022, or even, for pensioners, February 2022. This lack of clarity and the multiplication of deadlines do not allow employers and debtors to prepare for the payment of this aid. In addition, the Government merely states that it will proceed with the reimbursement "as soon as possible", which is similar to the terms just used by our dear colleague. It is necessary to present an immediate repayment schedule in order to avoid difficulties for some employers. You have set the payment schedules, spread over almost three months, to the different categories, but could you explain to us what the repayments will be for businesses or pension organizations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u573	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u574	So we will never know what repayment times will be for companies, etc. We will have to wait until the decrees are published, and again... if that is included. Amendment No 42 was a back-up amendment for the case, which occurred, where another of the amendments I had tabled would be considered inadmissible. It is intended to encourage the Government to keep its promises to secure the payment of aid by 31 December 2021, as the Prime Minister announced exceptional aid for the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u575	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u576	In the preliminary assessment of article 12, the Government indicated that it wanted "speed", as you said earlier, Mr. Delegated Minister, and hoped that employers, of course mainly those of the private sector, would pay the compensation as early as December 2021, when the State would pay it only in January 2022. It is quite surprising that the employer state does not apply the same rules as private employers. How is such a gap justified? Why don't you ask your own remittance channels what you're asking the private sector? And how are you going to explain to a small boss that he's going to have to change his pay chain, which is to be said at a cost, so that he can pay those 100 euros as of December, while the state will only pay them the following month? What is the logic of such behaviour? The amendment states that the decree provides for the payment of the bonus for civil servants "as soon as possible", even in the name of the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u577	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 114.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u578	The Government is no longer responding to questions as essential as those I have just asked. He could have explained that the State is subject to special constraints to pay these EUR 100. He refuses to answer. I can also request a public vote on each amendment so that the Government can explain itself to Parliament. This is still 3.6 billion. I don't think the government behaves well! Amendment No 114 is intended to include in the law the modalities under which the implementing decree will have to regulate the payment of aid to cross-border workers residing in France. This specific case poses serious difficulties because the activity is carried out abroad. At present, only the prior assessment of the Article mentions, very briefly, this specific case under the heading "Other assets" in (b) of point 1.4 on page 143. That's not acceptable. There is a need to set a framework immediately in the law before making further regulatory clarifications. In other words, if I live in Alsace and work in Baden-Württemberg, it is not my employer from Baden-Württemberg who will pay me 100 euros. Tell me if and how these cross-border workers will benefit from this compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u579	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u580	Deputy Minister, it is not acceptable for you to refuse to answer real questions that concern tens of thousands of people, some of whom may be listening to us tonight. They will believe that the Government has nothing to do with it, since it does not even answer a specific and sensible question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u581	Mr de Courson, thank you for speaking on Amendment No 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u582	Until proven otherwise...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u583	We are considering Amendment No 38!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u584	... Ministers are here to explain to national representation how a number of mechanisms are applied. I note that there is no answer. I come to Amendment No 38, which seeks to have the Government submit a report assessing the possibility of implementing aid in the ultramarine territories excluded from its application, if I have read the text correctly. How will the Overseas Inflation Compensation apply? It seems that this will not be applied, for example, to Wallis-et-Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u585	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 44, which is the subject of the Government's sub-amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u586	I propose that before 1 April 2022 – this is not a gag – the Government submit a report on the deployment of aid. In particular, it specifies the total cost broken down by category of beneficiaries. The report also assesses the effectiveness and timing of the full repayment to aid debtors. I have seen that the Government is in favour of this amendment but is proposing to submit this report in June. It's interesting, but I think I know that on that date there are elections. It is not very complicated to submit a report before 1 April, when there will still be a Parliament, whereas after that there will be no more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u587	There'll probably be one, but it won't be the same! The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u588	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u589	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 44?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u590	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u591	What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 44?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u592	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u593	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u594	Look at the situation: you even refuse to have the Government submit a report to Parliament on how the mechanism has been implemented. I have tabled 15 or 20 amendments to show that there are enormous problems with this measure, but you have answered only two or three of my amendments. For others, you simply say: "unfavorable, unfavorable, unfavorable". There is a lack of respect for Parliament, and I have told the Government on several occasions. Why are you withdrawing the sub-amendment you tabled? Because I titillated you? But the role of the opposition in a democracy is to ask questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u595	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u596	I understand, by Mr de Courson's voice, that inflation compensation would not apply in certain overseas departments, particularly Wallis and Futuna. Deputy Minister, can you tell us in which overseas territories this measure will apply and where it will not apply?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u597	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u598	Mr. Lorion, article 22 of the 1999 Organic Law specifies that New Caledonia has competence in the field of social protection, which means that this community will have to decide on the rules in this regard and whether it wishes to implement this type of compensation. Article 7 of the Wallis-et-Futuna Islands Act 1961 gives the Overseas Islands the status of overseas territory and lists the Republic's powers in that territory, without mentioning social protection. Here too, the application of this measure is therefore a matter for a local decision and in no case for national law. Article 14 of the 2004 Organic Law on the Autonomy of French Polynesia does not mention social protection under the powers conferred on the State. It is the responsibility of the community. Since the premium is either reimbursed by social contributions or paid by social protection bodies and the State is not competent for social protection in these territories, they are not covered by the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u599	I ask for the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u600	Mr Lorion, we are not going to debate a subject which has no bearing on Amendment No 44 which we have just adopted. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u601	Frankly, Minister Delegate, you dare to say that inflation benefits fall within the competence of social protection! This will be included in the record and I hope that this case will be appealed to the Constitutional Council. This is not a social bonus since it will be paid to 70 or 75% of the French, including people who do not need it. And excluding Wallis-et-Futuna with these arguments, it doesn't stand the way. I come to my last amendment before you again give an unfavorable opinion on everything. I propose that the Government submit a report assessing the cost of deploying the EUR 100 exceptional aid for local authorities and compensation routes that may be implemented by the State beyond the reimbursement mentioned in the second paragraph of Article 12. An impact assessment should include a component on the cost of managing these premiums. Do you have any idea what the cost of managing the 3.6 billion so-called inflation bonuses is? If you answer me right away, I will be able to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u602	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u603	The purpose of my colleague Michel Castellani's amendment is to recall the inevitable threshold effect which accompanies the introduction of this type of aid. Many citizens and households that are not really favoured risk being penalized by the 2000 euro net threshold. It would have been preferable to foresee a degressive effect of the aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u604	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No 85 on the additional Rule after Rule 12
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u605	This amendment by my colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva concerns the CIIC, a major tax scheme for the economy of Corsica established in 2002. We would like to have more readability, that is to say to have the assurance that it will be extended at least until 2023. Moreover, in view of the recent health crisis experienced by Corsican companies in addition to their natural handicap due to their insularity, it would be good to be able to discuss again an increase in the rates of this tax credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u606	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u607	Unfavorable. We have regular discussions on the ICIC in the context of the finance bill, where they have a greater place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u608	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u609	The aim of this appeal amendment by Mrs Pires Beaune is to ask the Government to extend an experiment on the tax advisor scheme, if it is not possible to proceed directly in the light of article 40 of the Constitution. The 2017 Finance Act allowed the compensation of any person providing information to the tax administration that led to the discovery of a breach of certain rules set out in the General Tax Code. Initially, of course, it was a question of combating tax evasion. An experiment has allowed the tax administration to retain a different scope, defined this time by the seriousness of certain acts, breaches or manoeuvres in breach of tax law where the estimated amount of duties evaded is more than 100000 euros. This experimental period was considered too short. In view of the rules on financial admissibility, this amendment is limited to allowing the administration to continue to exploit the information transmitted by the notifiers beyond the duration of the experiment. So we're a little out of time. The aim is to call on the Government to continue the experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u610	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u611	I am asking for this amendment to be withdrawn because I believe that the PLFR is not the right legislative vehicle. I had the opportunity to say in committee that I approved the substance of this amendment. I believe that the tax advisory system is a good step forward, that it is effective, and I agree with you that the experiment must be extended. In line with the amendment on further experimentation, I would like to ask the Government whether we can move forward on this point, either by providing guarantees now or by proposing an amendment in the context of the 2022 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u612	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u613	I will give a favourable opinion on an identical amendment tabled by Mrs Pires Beaune on the non-attached articles of the 2022 Finance Bill that we are going to consider earlier. I would therefore ask you to withdraw this provision for inclusion in the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u614	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u615	It is indeed an experiment that works rather well, but I withdraw this amendment to the benefit of the one I will defend when examining the non-attached articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u616	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u617	The main purpose of this appeal amendment is to remind the Government that the assessment of the tax reduction scheme, known as Pinel Breton, for the acquisition of new housing in the tense areas of Brittany is still not published, whereas the report was due before 30 September 2021. On the other hand, the scheme is extended until the end of 2022, as companies in the construction sector have already expressed their satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u618	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u619	That's an unfavorable opinion. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mrs Pires Beaune's amendments, whether the previous one or the one that will be defended in the wake of the debate on the PLF, do not tend to extend the compensation of tax advisers. Only a governmental amendment could do so because of the admissibility rules of article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u620	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u621	The rapporteur-general is right about tax advisers and I would like to point out that I intend to table an amendment identical to that of Mrs Pires Beaune, which I believe will make her proposal admissible. If this is not the case, we will make all the necessary deposits to ensure that the opinionaries' experiments are well extended. As for the report you are requesting, it will be published in the coming weeks. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u622	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me amendments Nos 117 and 84, which may be put to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u623	Amendment No 84 by members of the Socialist and Allied Group aims to guarantee the renewal by 2022 of the allocation of compensation for the deterioration of the gross savings of the industrial and commercial authorities of the communal bloc, such as the thermal authorities. This allocation, provided for in Article 26 of the first amending finance law of 2021, made it possible to compensate in 2021 for part of the deterioration of the gross savings of the industrial and commercial public services (SPIC) concerned in 2020 due to their loss of tariff revenues, up to a limit of EUR 1.8 million per management. However, this degradation has been significant for some SPICs, including spas, to the point of being felt over several exercises. That is why we are calling for the extension of this mechanism in 2022. This amendment is also intended to warn that the SPICs concerned are still awaiting the publication of the 2020 loss decree. Can you tell us about this? Amendment No 117 is intended in particular to warn that certain communities which have put equipment into service at the end of 2019 and the beginning of 2020 are excluded from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u624	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u625	It will be a request for withdrawal: I believe that the Government has tabled an amendment to the non-attached articles that satisfies your request. In this regard, I would like to commend the minister who has been listening to this issue since the beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u626	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u627	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u628	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u629	This is a small amendment, in the sense that it aims to improve Parliament's information on the issue of issuing premiums through the publication in a general annex to the draft finance law of the year of a table showing the evolution over the last five years of the volume of the net premiums of the discounts recorded by Agence France Trésor. This is a very considerable problem which we have mentioned on many occasions in the Committee on Finance. I believe that at the end of September, at the beginning of October, there were already 105 billion euros in cumulation. However, you know that in Maastrichtian accounting, public debt is recorded at the repayment value and not at the issue value. This is considerable since it represents about four points of GDP. We therefore hope that this information, which we are obliged to ask each year, will be included in the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u630	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u631	This is a debate that we had a few months ago when we examined the first PLFR in 2021. The opinion has not changed: it is still unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u632	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u633	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u634	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u635	I just wanted to relay an inquiry of the National Union of Public Agricultural Technical Education-Unified Trade Union Federation, the SNETAP-FSU.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u636	There's no connection!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u637	While the Ministry of National Education has recognized the need for additional resources for general education, giving it 15,000 FTEs – full-time equivalents – in the form of overtime for general education, it has not provided for agricultural education when students face the same or even more serious difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u638	I thank you for this statement, which has been well heard but which has absolutely no connection to the amendment tabled by Mr de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u639	We have completed our review of the sections of the Financial Amendment Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u640	I put to the vote the whole of the amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u641	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 30 Against 10
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-10-O1057.u642	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Review of non-attached items. The meeting is adjourned.
