ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u1	The next item is the final reading of the bill extending the state of health emergency (No. 3836).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u3	After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee and yesterday's adoption of a motion to reject the bill in the Senate, we have come together for the last reading of this bill. What can we do? The observation, shared by the two assemblies, that the deterioration of the health situation fully justifies extending the exceptional powers granted to the executive to combat the epidemic of covid-19. In this connection, I note that the deletion of Article 3 by the Law Committee of the National Assembly, at the beginning of the examination of the text, has helped to address a common concern of both chambers by setting closer re-visit deadlines. Thanks to this text, until the beginning of June, we will have the necessary tools to stop the epidemic: we will be able to maintain curfew, impose the wearing of the mask and limit gatherings. Our goal for all is to avoid saturation of resuscitation services and that patients cannot be cared for. For, yes, all the restrictive measures taken by the executive have only one purpose: never be faced with the impossibility of taking care of a person, for lack of available bed or lack of care. There's not on one side the caregivers, on the front line, and we, on the other, on the second line. If our roles are different, we are all faced with the same collective challenge. I know that everyone understands this imperative despite the principled opposition to certain provisions, since the gap between the two assemblies can be summed up by differences linked, on the one hand, to the pace of the deadlines for the prolongation of the state of emergency and, on the other hand, to the changes to be made to the state of emergency regime. On this second point, we have had the opportunity to say that this work will have to be carried out during the consideration of the bill establishing a permanent health emergency management regime; This has led the Government to oppose several amendments to article 1. In view of the current dynamics and the gradual spread on the national territory of variants, whose contagiousness would be greater, we have no alternative but to extend the health emergency regime. Beyond animal health measures, the "test, alert, protect" strategy has been reinforced. In recent weeks, we have talked a lot about animal health and vaccination measures, but I would like to refer in a few words to this strategy, which remains a cornerstone of our response to the epidemic. This is not widely understood in this House, but the efforts of all professionals have made the French screening system one of the most effective in Europe. Tests are totally free in France, for everyone, and it is unique in Europe. We often compare the countries in this crisis, it is quite normal: remember that for an asymptomatic person wishing to be tested, it costs almost 120 euros in Germany and up to 350 euros in the United Kingdom. In France, everyone can be tested at the slightest doubt, in a laboratory, a pharmacy, at his doctor or in a nursing office, which distinguishes our country from other European countries where the question of access to tests is still unresolved. Our screening system is also based on a requirement of speed: 94% of test results are now rendered in less than 24 hours, a very high proportion compared to our neighbours, only Spain approaching this rate. Finally, our system relies on traceability, thanks to the national population screening information system, SIDEP. Since the start of the epidemic, the teams of Health Insurance and the regional health agencies – which I welcome once again – have been tracking at-risk contacts within ever shorter periods of time and accompanying the people concerned, thanks to the information systems that you set out for you last May and that will be extended under section 4 of this bill. Our greatest challenge now is to strengthen understanding and respect for isolation, a subject that I know is dear to many of you, particularly the Members of the Group of the European People's Party. We had a transparent debate, at the end of which we made the choice of trust, by not moving towards a system of obligations and control, but by significantly strengthening the support of isolated people. We have removed the financial obstacles to effective and immediate isolation: since January 10, any person with symptoms or contact cases can declare themselves, even before having taken a test, on the Health Insurance site to obtain an immediate stoppage of work; it will be compensated from the first day, without a day of failure. We have also strengthened the tele-survey at home: since the end of January, every isolated person is called at least twice by the health insurance. Finally, each isolated person may be offered a visit to the home of a nurse, through the territorial isolation support units set up by the prefectures, in conjunction with the local authorities. These are 16,000 – and not 20,000 as I was able to say yesterday in the Senate – nursing visits that have already been made. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the work that has been under way for almost a year now on this subject. Everyone here knows the fatigue, fear and exhaustion of caregivers. Successive extensions are a necessity, they are not a failure, they are not a gadget, let alone decisions that are made with joy of heart. These are decisions taken within the framework of full democratic control, which was exercised during the crisis and which is still being exercised, here and now, and on which I would like to say a few words to conclude. This point is the subject of recurrent criticism, which needs to be addressed. Since the outbreak began, the National Assembly and the Senate have continuously monitored the Government's efforts to manage the health emergency. Since the end of March 2020, you have debated six bills, which have been the subject of more than 3400 amendments, for more than 160 hours of debate in sittings, divided into about 20 different readings. Twelve thematic debates were also held during the session and allowed the Government to question the management of the health crisis – I am thinking in particular of the debates on the management of masks, on the debunking or on the StopCovid application. As Minister Olivier Véran recalled, we have responded to each standing committee meeting to inform the vaccination strategy, for example, or the discussions leading up to the review of the emergency legislation. Finally, the Government's action is subject to the supervision of the administrative judge, and hundreds of emergency injunctions have been formed and examined by the Council of State since the beginning of the crisis, and have led, whenever requested by the judge, to change our response so that it is as proportionate as possible to the health risks involved. This has been the case, in particular, for the measure introducing a system of prior authorization for public gatherings last July, or for limiting all gatherings in places of worship to 30 persons last November; In both cases, the Government drew the consequences of the Council's decisions and proposed alternative measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The exceptional circumstances justify exceptional measures but, in the exception, we do not forget that the norm, our standard for all, is democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u4	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u5	As we come together one last time to finally pass this bill extending the state of health emergency, you will hear, in a few moments, some colleagues accuse the majority of sweeping the provisions of the Senate with a turn-around. That's not true, I'm telling you straight away: it's just political-political lies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u6	It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u7	Our majority, in connection with the Government, whom I thank once again for its unprecedented commitment, addressed the Joint Joint Committee, which was held at the National Assembly last Thursday, with the ardent desire to reach the compromise required by the health situation, which is particularly worrying. I must remind you that the National Assembly and the Senate agreed on the main points, namely the extension of the legal framework for the state of health emergency provided for by Article 1 until 31 December, the abolition of Article 3 voted by the National Assembly, and even, to one hair, the duration of the extension of the state of health emergency currently in force: 1st June or 3 May, it was enough to cut the pear in half, and we were perfectly prepared to do so, more for the sake of compromise than to improve this text. As a sign of good will, in its search for compromise, the majority of the National Assembly was ready to accept further developments in the legal framework of the state of health emergency, in particular in Article 1. However, our discussions have taken hold on a provision proposed by the Senate, which appears to me to be unrealistic, inapplicable, or potentially dangerous from a health point of view, namely, the fact that legislation is necessary to extend confinement beyond a month. The Assembly did not, however, take a stand on its position. While it has stated unequivocally that this provision is unacceptable as it stands, it has made alternative proposals, credible and realistic, guided by its willingness to reach a compromise. I assume that, as the negotiations with the Senate have failed, the Assembly is therefore about to adopt definitively the text which it had originally voted for, and whose balanced and proportionate character, with a few minor exceptions, had won the approval of the Senate. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I want to express to you a deep conviction, which I have acquired as a parliamentarian. When, in a piece of legislation, only an article or amendments do not agree with me, while I agree with the spirit of the text, I choose not to participate in the vote or to abstain, because voting against is voting against its spirit. Some of our colleagues have voted against every amendment, every article and against this bill as a whole, thus against the very objective of this law, which is to give the Government the weapons necessary to combat this virus and to ensure the protection of the population. I therefore believe that those who have voted or will still vote against this bill oppose the fight against the virus and the protection of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u8	Pathetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That's my opinion, and I share it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u10	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u11	Yes, if we're against it, we don't like people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u12	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u13	I'm afraid we don't understand much about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u14	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u15	I'm trying to follow. In the last episode, the Head of State warned only seven minutes ahead of his time on TF1. We have imagined great announcements... and patatras, nothing at all, nothing we already know, no lie that we have not already been served; The aim was to reassure us of the deployment of the vaccination strategy in the country, and not to provide us with more consistent information which, because of our belief in the leaks that the Government had wisely orchestrated on a possible tightening of the rules, we had finally expected. It is therefore not to be understood, which is not without importance, since we are theoretically supposed to discuss all this so that everyone can accept the usefulness of the measures that are taken. But we are asked to validate an exorbitant common law toolbox for a government that does anything. It makes you want to say no! If we do not want to, it is not out of love for the virus, on the contrary, but because the method chosen to fight it seems catastrophic, disastrous, and the more we discuss it, the more we avoid you doing anything. On the vaccine, the logistical question remains full and complete; I'm not even talking about production and sovereignty. We are told that by the end of March, factories – at least four of us are told! – produce vaccines; In fact, as a first step, they will simply distribute the product into the vials that they will then store in the cartons. It is useful, I do not disapprove of it, but it is clear that, every time, colossal efforts are made, to finally see that we are not up to the situation. For sure, when you put all your eggs in the same basket, namely Sanofi's, obviously pierced, you find yourself in a situation as disastrous as the one in which we are. I heard the Secretary of State explain that this text was necessary in particular because we must be able to maintain measures – including curfew – until June. The sentence, as it was pronounced, may suggest that curfew will last until the end of June. It's a hypothesis; Moreover, the new variant justifies this argument. However, I believe that elections are supposed to take place at the end of June; It might be useful to discuss all this, not just in a defence counsel in which the entire Government does not even participate and about which we do not know anything. I hear some colleagues say that it would be good to have at least the report. Yeah, that'd always be it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u16	Well, we don't have it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u17	The bodies that are supposed to be representative of the democratic system could also be supported. And now, patatras! Finally the little one had, that is, not much, an information mission with the powers of a commission of inquiry: hop, dissolution! "Circulate, there is nothing to see, anyway, you have other means of control in the Assembly. It's true that when you saw people marching before the board of inquiry, telling what they wanted, sometimes lying, sometimes recognizing it, but never being questioned, you think it wasn't the panacea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u18	There were not many of us attending this audition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u19	Even that, you won't let us do it! Because you don't want to hear that alternatives to containment, it's getting ready. It's not enough to say "no, confinement, I don't like it too much," and then nothing, we leave the curfew, which is a kind of "tight confinement," is that what we say? I don't have the language, it changes every day, with this government, so we don't know. What seems amazing is that alternatives to containment are not prepared. Worse still, we're entitled to minister gestures. I am thinking of Minister Blanquer, and there "gesticulations" is probably the best term to describe the situation: he comes to do a gymnastics course, explaining that sport is good, when the gyms are still closed, when everything that is not directly related to the management of the health crisis, such as mental health, is completely neglected, and when the queues of the students who are going to seek food are extended from day to day. But no, it's better to discuss this in defence counsel. It doesn't make sense! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The Group of the European People's Party will reject this text, of course. Besides, the only tool you have left for people to accept the measures is not that they are all aware of having to fight the virus, it is the 135 euros fine. And we hear Minister Darmanin being pleased to have blocked the road for hours, so that people are outside after 6 p.m. and receive a fine; It then argues an exceptional increase in the number of fines by 53%. To maintain a state of health emergency through repression is probably the worst method.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u20	Mrs Marie-George Buffet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u21	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left reiterates its opposition to this crisis management system of prolonging a state of emergency without the nation's elected representatives having a real say in the various measures taken in this context. Parliament does not have the function of being listened to from time to time. Parliamentarians have proposals to discuss, other than extending states of emergency every three or four months, or debating under Article 50-1 of the Constitution. The verticality of the decision is pushed to the extreme. The president decides on a curfew at 6 p.m., unprecedented in our history – certainly, perhaps justified – without having been able to exchange scientific data. The president and the group chairmen are regularly invited by the Prime Minister, but these are briefings whose usefulness has not really been demonstrated. The limited management of the crisis is dangerous, because by depriving itself of the collegiality and democratic legitimacy that the Assembly can give, the risks of mistakes and misguided roads are greater. If the parliamentarians themselves feel excluded from the decision-making process, then what about our fellow citizens, swept away with instructions in order, speaking in speaking, waiting for the President or the Prime Minister to tell them whether they will be assigned at home, when they will be vaccinated, etc. - Is that what you're saying? This is not the substance of the decisions that I question; What concerns me is knowing that everything depends on a small group. We are moving towards democratic problems, as measures are likely to be less and less accepted. This goes hand in hand with this slow drift of the Fifth Republic, about which several of us are warning. Collegiality in the construction of standards, even in an emergency, is not a brake on action. The concentration of powers is not synonymous with efficiency, even in the most acute times of crisis. To be effective, measures must be informed, legitimate and agreed upon, all things for which Parliament's close involvement is necessary. Any decision concerning fundamental freedoms must be made by law. We must stop dealing with the debates under Article 50-1 of the Constitution on such important matters. The law is not talkative, the law is not a constraint, even and especially in an emergency. Parliamentarians are responsible people in front of their voters. I am also concerned about the trivialisation of the state of emergency, which replaces the common law in every crisis. It is difficult for us not to see a certain normality, whether the state of emergency is health or safety-related. This text proposes to further extend the legal regime of the state of emergency until December, with periodic discussions to extend it or not; the next one is scheduled for June 1st, that is to say in four months. Finally, I would like to point out that the state of emergency, if it is sanitary, is also social. But I see nothing happening to counter the wave of poverty resulting from redundancies and part-time unemployment; Nothing for low wages; nothing for the SMIC; no real progress on the long-term financial and material autonomy of young people. Our country has more than 20 per cent of child poverty. Beyond the health strategy, we must now deal with these issues urgently. It must be noted that this is not on the Assembly's agenda. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is time to reconcile the fight against the pandemic with respect for the democratic process. It is time to treat social damage as urgently as health damage. The GDR Group believes that it is time to move on to a system of regular referral to Parliament, to a regime that respects democracy and the principle of separation of powers. For all these reasons, we will not vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u22	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u23	We have therefore reached the end of the discussion on the bill to extend the state of emergency and the state of health emergency itself. How can we qualify our work in recent weeks? I don't really know. At times of sereneness, they have also been hoarse or even unhappy at other times. Convergences exist and agreements could have been reached. We have not succeeded, but we have made progress. The reality of the situation, the harshness of the crisis and the health risks it entails, is in my opinion shared by all, here and in the Senate. We are all aware of the violence of the virus and of the uncertainties that exist around the variants. It has been almost a year since we have been plunged into this crisis, almost a year since our caregivers were mobilized day and night to save lives, almost a year since lives and families were broken or permanently affected by this terrible virus, almost a year since normal life stopped, almost a year since all our fellow citizens are mobilized on a daily basis, in an exemplary way, to cope with and overcome the crisis. As always, there are exceptions, but they remain at the margin. This observation, this daily life, we share. To cope, we must act, make responsible but difficult decisions; decisions that are not necessarily popular; decisions for the general interest, to save lives, to enable healthcare workers to do their work and hospitals to keep up. We are taking these decisions in a democratic framework that we have been building here since March. These decisions lead us to extend the state of emergency until 31 December 2021 and the state of emergency until 1 June 2021. We do not take these decisions out of pleasure, but because we are responsible, fully aware of what they involve for collective life and of the efforts they require of all our fellow citizens. During the debates, I was able to observe that the observation and the need for action were widely shared, both in the Senate and in the Assembly, regardless of the political groups. Differences were expressed as to how the state of emergency was defined and how it was applied; This is normal in the democratic debate. During the debates, I also observed that some were in favour – while perhaps sharing the reality of the crisis – of the exit from the state of emergency and the solution of the discussion, let us say so, to solve all the current problems. I respect this position even if I do not share it – even if we do not share it. I believe that, given the reality of the health situation, we still need to have all the tools available to combat the spread of the virus, in order to protect lives. It's unfortunate, but we still have to hold and we have to hold together. Before concluding, I would like to return to a delicate point that we have had to discuss and to some demagogic accusations that we have heard in these few weeks of debate. I am thinking of the recurrent and easy accusation that Parliament would not be involved in managing the crisis, or that it would be bypassed. Some people like to tell fables and scare.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u24	Yes, quite simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u25	In a period like the one we live in, I regret it. Parliament is fully involved. Beyond the various debates recalled by the minister and the existing control mechanisms, we have created here the framework of the state of health emergency regime, which we continue to shape until it is finally enshrined in the law, thanks to the bill on the sustainability of the state of emergency regime. We will do so once we learn all the lessons from the crisis, probably next fall. This is the sixth time since last March that we have had to discuss, as part of a bill, the extension of the state of emergency. Text after text, we are improving this device. In the discussions on this text, we have in particular deleted Article 3, i.e. the transitional period from 1 June to 30 September 2021. We felt that, given the unusual duration of the crisis, the state of emergency, it was essential for the Government to come back to us in due course, in order to determine what decisions we will have to take at the end of spring. The re-visitation clause is therefore set in three months' time. We have also, contrary to the opinion of the rapporteur of the majority and the Government, opened the possibility for chambers to refer the matter to the Scientific Council. I would like to welcome this commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I say so solemnly to the Government: when we meet again at the end of spring, I am sure that we will have to go further in strengthening the weight of Parliament. The Group of the Republic on the move will take on its responsibilities and vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u26	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u27	We are meeting this morning for a final reading of the sixth text on the state of health emergency, following the failure of the Joint Joint Committee and the urgent re-reading on Tuesday, 2 February. At the risk of repeating myself, I will continue to say the same things that are still unheard of, week after week, in a state of emergency after a state of emergency. Yes, in this period of derogation from the ordinary law, we need real control of Parliament; The rights of the latter must be respected, or even strengthened, since the state of emergency is a state of emergency. Democracy has been confined for almost a year. When in March we voted for the first state of health emergency, the situation was not the same; We were all in shock, we were discovering this threat, we were discovering this crisis, we were discovering the need for exceptional measures, in a state of health emergency. That is the context in which we have collectively built an emergency legal framework to manage the crisis, and given all the necessary resources to the Government. A year later, what about it? We didn't change that iota frame. Yet we were ready. We have, however, simply extended a crisis and prolonged a crisis, to extend a regime built in an emergency to deal with a situation that no one had anticipated. Last week, the Government spokesman announced a very tight confinement, and then no, curfew is enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u28	Finally, it got loose!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u29	We were told that there was a debate on confinement, and finally no debate. We are reduced to waiting every day for a new member of the Government to speak against the previous one. In terms of legislation, when we make proposals, they are rejected. We want democratic debates, control of Parliament and re-visit clauses, so that every citizen can be heard before it is too late. None of the Senate's contributions have been retained, even when it comes to empowering the Government to act without being too infringing on freedoms, or allowing the prefect to open certain businesses, with a stricter sanitary protocol. Every time, it's swept away with a backhand. In the Joint Joint Committee, we denounced the very strong restrictions on the freedoms of the French, which call for close and regular parliamentary scrutiny. The High Assembly had reduced the expiry date of the state of emergency from 1 June to 3 May 2021, unless further extension, and provided that no containment measure could exceed one month without the authorization of the law. This was one of the reasons for the CMP's failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u30	The only reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u31	We want to empower the Government, but we need to reconcile the requirement for health security with the uncertainties of the situation; Each time, we've been on the rendezvous and ready to help you. For all these reasons, we will therefore vote against this umpteenth bill extending the state of health emergency. It would be caricatural to conclude that our rejection implies that we refuse to fight the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u32	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u33	Suffer, Mr rapporteur, democracy, contradiction and separation of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u34	No problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will therefore vote against this bill, while continuing to be a force for proposals, hoping one day to be heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u36	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u37	The question of the extension of the state of emergency could have led to a consensus between the National Assembly and the Senate; This has not been the case, and we regret it. In particular, discussions were held on the end date of the state of health emergency and the state of health emergency regime, even though the CMP had made progress on this last point. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group understands the questions arising from the prolongation of such a restriction of certain of our freedoms, such as those to go and come after 6 p.m., to undertake, when it comes to commerce, or cultural activities. Of course, we understand the concerns about the introduction of an emergency legal regime, such as the state of emergency. That is why we were opposed to the inclusion in the common law of this legal system, the application of which must of course remain temporary. However, we consider it necessary to continue together the fight against a virus that we did not know a year ago, and which evolves, with the appearance of new variants, some of which, like Brazilian, can greatly reduce the effects of the vaccine. It is therefore our responsibility to maintain a legal framework adapted to a particularly erratic situation. This framework should be extended in a proportionate manner; It is not a question, according to the very imaginative comparison of the German lawyer Fleiner, of "shooting the sparrows with cannons", but of finding the right balance. For Aristotle, the proportion is at the heart of the notion of just. Measures restricting rights and freedoms must be both appropriate or appropriate, necessary and proportionate. This is the legitimate objective of this bill to extend the state of health emergency. However, if we share this intention with the Government, it does not mean that we have no demands. My colleague Philippe Latombe also stated them in this same forum a few days ago. One concerns transparency on strategies adopted, both health and economic, social and cultural; Another one is about the numbers. Our fellow citizens are fighting, but to continue to be resilient, they need to know and understand; They need the Government's work to be readable and preserved from any cacophony of communication, and rumours that undermine their morale. As for us legislators, transparency in the answers to our questions and the figures provided to us is the condition of our effectiveness. As such, I welcome the week that has just passed, because, I hope, it closes the door to the uncertainties of reconfinement, particularly strong and anxious. Between the intervention of the Prime Minister a week ago, that of the President of the Republic at the beginning of the week, and the press briefing last night of Jean Castex, accompanied by several ministers, the French heard from the executive a clear speech, with regular points of situation. This transparency was all the more necessary because the Government needs the support of our fellow citizens, in order to fight this virus with them, and the support of Parliament, in order to have an appropriate legal arsenal. This bill is essential to enable the executive to act. As stated in the impact assessment, the situation suggests a potential further outbreak of the epidemic; If this is not the case at the moment, we observe a high plateau, which must be contained and lowered. As we see it, the Government must constantly adjust measures to ensure health security, in line with the evolution of the pandemic. It must therefore be able to adapt the provisions in force with reactivity and relevance, adopt them and announce them quickly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, as you will understand, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will vote in favour of this text, which provides for appropriate, necessary and proportionate deadlines. We note with satisfaction the inclusion in the Act itself of the provisions of article 4, even though it had originally been mentioned, before the transfer to the Council of Ministers, of a reference to a decree in the Council of State. Parliament's role is thus strengthened, which fully satisfies us. The same applies to the abolition of Article 3 by amendment, in the National Assembly's Law Committee, which has led to the unanimity of political groups in Parliament. In this unprecedented health crisis, we must continue to move forward together, in the same direction, with confidence and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u38	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u39	Please excuse my colleague Marietta Karamanli, who could not be present this morning. She asked me to read her speech. You propose that we adopt as a final reading the extension until 1 June of the current state of health emergency. My group is telling you again, we will not vote on this bill. We do not, of course, question the seriousness of the health situation or the need for an exceptional, temporary legal framework to deal with it. We voted on this framework in March 2020, and we expect measures to be taken to strengthen its implementation. Like the vast majority of the French, we are following the decisions of the Government, while sometimes having difficulty understanding its ins and outs. However, contrary to what was said during our discussions, we are looking at this text in a spirit of responsibility and with great seriousness. Because we are responsible, we are not prepared to extend this state of emergency beyond what is necessary. We are in an exceptional legal framework, the measures and duration of which must remain strictly proportionate to the health context, which means that it must be constantly re-evaluated. We proposed to limit the extension of the state of emergency to two or even three months, in order to ensure a regular appointment for the national representation. Our honourable senators had adopted amendments to that effect, and the deadline for prorogation was reduced to May 3, 2021. We supported these proposals. You went back to this provision again, which, however, was likely to gather a quasi-consensus of national representation. Because we are responsible, we have demanded effective parliamentary control throughout the state of health emergency, as well as an assessment of this control. Your answer was to put an end to the fact-finding mission on the impact, management and consequences of the covid -19 epidemic, set up a few months ago, which would have allowed the national representation to continuously assess the situation, taking into account all the dimensions of the crisis. I don't know what you were afraid of; This mission had produced two reports and carried out a very serious work. A single symbolic measure was finally adopted, and again, against your opinion; It concerns the hearing of members of the Scientific Council by parliamentary committees. Because we are responsible, we have proposed to improve the framework of the state of emergency health, in the absence of text adhoc. These common-sense adaptations identified by the flash mission led by Sacha Houlié and Philippe Gosselin were rejected. Each time, we were referred to the bill, which was to establish a long-term legal framework for health emergencies. The text exists, but it has been withdrawn from the agenda and sent back sine die, after the crisis of which the term is obviously unknown. In other words, it is unlikely that this text will ever be considered. At its hearing by the Law Committee, prior to the first reading of the text, the Minister of Solidarity and Health referred to a "technical text"; Despite our lengthy debates here and in the Senate, that is exactly what you have done with it. This text does not address any of the weaknesses of the legal regime voted in March 2020. It will not allow effective parliamentary control – again, I regret – because this control will be conditional on the goodwill of the committee chairmen, who are almost all of them here from the majority. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] On the pretext of the failure of the Joint Joint Committee on Containment and Parliamentary Consultation, you have come back to all the progress of the Senate, which could have led us to support this bill. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the national union is not decreed; It is the result of a patient and demanding political construction. In the fight against the pandemic, and in the face of many other present and future challenges, we must demonstrate daily that democracy is not a disadvantage, not just words that resonate in the silence of your actions. That's where we're at. It is therefore only that this majority will adopt this text. For our part, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u40	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u41	Since this text was registered in the Presidency of the National Assembly on 13 January, we have had in-depth discussions on the very special situation in which we find ourselves. We come to the epilogue of this legislative work, which, if adopted, will lead in particular to the extension of the state of health emergency until 1 June 2021. The exchanges have been rich, much has been said, and some progress is clearly to be noted. I am thinking in particular of the abolition of Article 3 in the Committee on Laws, thanks to amendments tabled by Members from all groups. The time is serious and everyone is aware of it. More than ever before, the Government must make decisions that profoundly affect the lives of our fellow citizens. As representatives of the nation, we know better than anyone how worrying the situation is. Psychological distress, growing precariousness, fatigue and sometimes anger: we need to hear these alert screams and provide the most appropriate responses. Again this morning, I watched a video on the online media Brut, showing young people waiting for the soup kitchen, to feed themselves, on a line of several hundred meters. The Group of the European People's Party has always had the power to propose, with a view to structuring a health policy that will enable us to break the deadlock. If vaccines are an immense glimmer of hope, they cannot be the alpha and omega of our health policy. The threat posed by variants reminds us that it would be dramatic to rely on vaccines to control the epidemic. We welcome the evolution of government health policy, which has taken up several of the proposals we have been defending for weeks, particularly those relating to the strengthening of the triptych "test, trace, isolate". All over the world, borders are closing. Following the announcement of the closure of borders by the Prime Minister last week, thousands and thousands of people are now in dramatic situations: I hope, Secretary of State, that we will be able to talk about it again. In this regard, as a Member of Parliament for the ninth constituency of the French who live outside France, including the Maghreb and West Africa, I want to say to the 3.5 million of our fellow citizens living outside our borders that we do not forget them and that national representation will always be at their side. I thus salute the courage and unwavering resilience of all those who are ambassadors of France's know-how and know-how: their living conditions have unfortunately been complicated for almost a year. France closes its doors to viruses, but never to its nationals. In this regard, I recall all the arrangements that we have put in place for them and for them, including the famous special aid covid-19 in the form of the occasional relief of solidarity, established in 2020 by the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, in the context of a global pandemic; This mechanism is renewed until next June. The easing of the arrangements for granting such aid in 2020 remains in force, in order to enable the largest number of French nationals living abroad, hard hit by the economic crisis, to benefit from it. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute once again to the voluntarism and dedication of our elected representatives from the field abroad, in particular the advisers of the French abroad, who, despite increasingly difficult conditions, spare no effort to help our fellow citizens. And I would point out, in this regard, that elected officials must be able to have the consular list without hindrance, in order to maintain permanent contact with the French, a fortiori where the security environment is particularly sensitive and where emergency situations can occur within a few hours. The leadership of the French abroad and the consular administration must hear us. Each and every one of us will vote consciously on this text, knowing that the situation obliges us. It obliges us to act together to get out of it together, and definitely turn this complicated page. The extension of the state of health emergency is never a waste of heart, for the representatives of the nation we are, but it is always a responsibility. Let us continue to support the Government in these difficult moments, let us always be strong and constructive in our approach, and we will be more proud of the progress we have made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u42	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u43	The state of emergency health regime was introduced by the Act of 23 March 2020 to deal with the epidemic of covid-19, throughout the national territory. It was to last two months; its extension until 1 June will lead to a health emergency regime of almost eight consecutive months, fourteen months if the emergency arrangements are considered. Can we still speak urgently, more than a year after the virus appeared on our soil, and ten months after the first steps taken to combat its spread and protect our population? What justifies continuing to transfer exorbitant powers from common law to the Government to deal with the crisis? Let us remember that the law that established the legal regime for the state of emergency in health was passed last March, under the emotion of confinement, decreed a few days earlier, in haste and in conditions of work totally derogating from the Constitution, to deal with a virus that we knew very little about. That is why the legislator, very unsure of him, gave him a expiry date a year later, in view of the important restrictions he imposed on fundamental freedoms. This regime allows the executive and, by empowerment, the prefects, to prohibit people from leaving their homes: this confinement is an unprecedented measure in the history of France. It also makes it possible to order curfews and quarantines, to restrict movement between territories, to order the closure of public places, or to prohibit meetings of any kind. The Government had undertaken to review this derogatory legal framework before the current regime lapsed, i.e. on 1 April 2021. In the absence of sufficient anticipation, he proposes to extend it until 31 December of the same year. However, the Government still has the time to review this regime, taking into account the comments made by the legislator, in particular those emanating from the flash mission of the Law Commission on the Legal Regime of the State of Health Emergency, which rendered its work on time and in time last December. This would provide a framework for better consultation with Parliament and local and regional authorities on decisions taken; the state of emergency must also be truly territorially differentiated; Nor should measures that disproportionately affect fundamental freedoms be included in the ordinary law. With the exception of only one of the recommendations of the report of the flash mission of Sacha Houlié and Philippe Gosselin, none of the other proposals are included in the text submitted to the vote today. The Freedom and Territory Group's proposal that any confinement or curfew ordered by the executive be allowed to be extended after one month by the passing of a law was thus rejected. Generalised confinement and curfew throughout the country, which may entail the impossibility of leaving the home for at least eight hours, unless there are very limited exceptions, constitute an exceptional measure of deprivation of liberty. The Government must explain this to Parliament as soon as possible after the decree has been issued. Above all, beyond the still random declarations, followed by a non-binding vote, made on the basis of Article 50-1 of the Constitution, it is necessary that a law validate the extension of these exceptional measures after a month. The first measure cannot go without the other. Similarly, our amendment aimed at perpetuating the possibility for prefects, within the legal framework of the state of health emergency, to allow the opening of retail outlets where the implementation of measures to prevent the risk of spread of the virus is guaranteed, has been rejected. The amendment also proposed that the prefect's decision should be taken in agreement with the mayors of the municipalities concerned. The introduction of general measures, which do not take account of the territorial dimensions, implies that these provisions do not appear to be proportionate to a large number of citizens. There is no doubt that the executive must have the tools to take timely measures to ensure health security. What we have been challenging since last spring is the way in which the Government decides to fight the virus, and all incidental social, territorial, economic and educational efforts. For months, we have been alerting to the government's method of not involving parliamentary representation or territorial elected officials in decisions. Our fellow citizens do not understand that not all actors are united to go through this period. Union, however, needs to be united and brought together, which is not done. If the unit took place on March 23rd, where we were at your side, it must be cultivated. You are exposing your decisions to Parliament, but are not listening to the ups and downs we are addressing you. In the same way, consultation in the territories means, in fact, that the prefects decide, and then inform the elected representatives of these decisions. That is why, in keeping with its position with the successive draft laws on the extension of the state of emergency, the Libertés et territoires group will vote mainly against this imposition before the fait accompli.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u44	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u45	You are asking us to vote for the state of emergency, and then to extend it, and today to extend it again until 1 June, that is, more than a year of derogation. In short, our freedoms remain confined! The Prime Minister proudly stated that "when we look at what is happening elsewhere, France does not have to blush." But there would be something to be ashamed of, for the sixth economic power! Indeed, after the fiasco of masks and tests, Pasteur's homeland was not even able to develop its vaccine. What a humiliation for our country! Meanwhile, Sanofi removes 400 research positions, while breaking the record of a €4 billion dividend payment in 2020. And there are only four research centres left in France, compared to eleven fifteen years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u47	Meanwhile, what does Emmanuel Macron do? He's giving up his youth. The lines of students to benefit from food aid extend, not to mention the distance courses, the increase in insecurity, the loss of confidence in the future, and, unfortunately, the increasing suicides. What is the Government doing? Nothing. Nothing. [[Mrs Marie-George Buffet acquiesce]] France also abandons the most fragile. The number of active solidarity income recipients – RSA – increased by 10% in 2020, with 8 million people using food aid compared to 7.5 million in 2019. 300,000 people are homeless. In France, this great power, almost one in six inhabitants is poor. On the other hand, the rich continue to squander, to squander over and over again. The 1,000 richest people in the world have regained the level of wealth they had before the pandemic in just nine months, while it may take the poorest people more than ten years to recover. In France, billionaires have seen their fortunes replenished to the tune of 175 billion euros, exceeding the pre-crisis level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u49	[[Mr. Pierre Dharréville acquiesce]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Well, 175 billion euros, that's twice the budget of the public hospital, that budget that you cut by almost 1 billion euros last year, with the law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u50	Yeah, we know where the money went!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u51	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] However, in order to deal with this major crisis, the group La France insoumée has multiplied the proposals: nationalisation of Luxfer and Famar, suspension of rents, free of charge of masks, requisition of the textile industry or the creation of a public drug center, in order to ensure to France the independence and sovereignty that are necessary to put an end to the private management of the medicine. Since the beginning of the crisis, our political movement has tabled eleven bills, dozens of amendments, organized its own commission of inquiry, prepared four guides and six plans: all this has been ignored by the majority. By its refusal to plan, the majority imposes on us its short-term policy and ever greater restrictions on freedoms. The group La France insoumise proposes alternatives to confinement, with a logic of rotation in schools, transport, administrations and companies. All this is possible, it is a matter of political will. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] Instead, Emmanuel Macron and his peers condemn us to living in uncertainty. Our life follows the rhythm of the defense councils, which are chained, secretly, and which constitute a hold-up of the vote of the elected people. Democracy is really being confiscated here in our territory. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] With this extension of the state of emergency, the Government will be able to confiscate, decontain, reconfinish and introduce curfews whose usefulness has not yet been demonstrated. With this new regime of exception, lights fade, as if France were extinguishing itself. In the face of this, we must act! As Frantz Fanon said, "we are nothing on Earth, if we are not first the slave of a cause, that of peoples and that of justice and freedom."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u52	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u53	Almost a year ago, the IDU-I group unanimously chose to trust the Government, giving it full powers to deal with the crisis. Today, we are wondering if we have been wrong. No doubt we were not wrong to do so at the time, but it now seems that we were wrong to trust you. In fact, the Government has become accustomed to the exceptional powers free from control of the Parliament that were then entrusted to it. These exceptional powers were to be applied for a limited period of time, of course that of the crisis. Of course, the crisis is not over, we do not disagree, and exceptional powers are still needed. However, these exceptional powers had to be accompanied by parliamentary control. Last March, we didn't have time to seriously establish such a check in the three days we did the state of health emergency. Nevertheless, the Government had made a commitment to return to it and to work on it, to establish a serious framework and to create effective parliamentary controls. The only parliamentary control established at the time was the fact-finding mission on the covid -19 epidemic, which later became a commission of inquiry and then became a fact-finding mission. But you just scratched it with a feather stroke. The National Assembly no longer has any means to seriously control the action of the Government – unlike the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u55	This becomes a dirty habit of this quinquennium, which seems to have a problem with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u57	Despite your difficult discussions with the Senate about this new piece of legislation, you said last week – I just heard it again – that there was only one point of disagreement with it. Which text do you submit to us? Not, as the logic would like, a text that would simply allow the majority of the National Assembly to decide what it wants regarding this point of disagreement, but a text in which you have come back on everything: on the expiry of the extension; on the retention period of the files; on Parliament's right of scrutiny of the state of health emergency, e.g. the introduction of containment. Clearly, the majority in the Senate as well as in the opposition sitting in the Assembly said: "Move, there is nothing to see, we decide. » [[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] The worst thing is that you are simultaneously calling for a national union, under the pretext of a pandemic. Not only is there nothing to see, but there is nothing to discuss! And if we talk, we're accused of being demagogues or health traitors to the nation. It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u58	That's so true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u59	While there should be discussion and common construction, we find ourselves in a situation of blockade that you choose, sorry to tell you. We have voted everything, we have accepted everything, but it is no longer bearable. Moreover, the ordinances that we have authorized you to make should normally be ratified under the Constitution. But almost none of the orders made a year ago have been ratified,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u62	It's starting to be a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u63	... when we had six months to do so and the Assembly's agenda would have allowed it. I'm sorry to tell you this is a violation of the Constitution. As far as Parliament's control is concerned, it would be normal to provide for the re-visit clause that we are asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u64	In a normal democracy, yes, but not in Macronia, obviously...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If a confinement were decided, for example, we could discuss it. Frankly, could we not debate the opening of shops? In the end, they were closed twice, while their opening since 27 November last did not pose any health problems! Could Parliament not debate the practice of sport, authorised at school, but banned outside it? Could Parliament not debate territorialisation? No, traffic, there's nothing to see, and there's nothing to discuss. The worst thing is that we should now have in common law a well-established framework not for the implementation of the state of emergency. This was again a commitment of the Government. A year later, however, this is not the case and, let us say, in a year's time, it will not be the case, because the congestion of the legislative timetable will no longer allow you to have it adopted. But it was programmed: last December, we were told that a text was ready. But you gave up presenting it under the pressure of the obscurantists. Indeed, the vaccination strategy was initially dictated by the fear of anti-vaccines, and some were moved that this text might eventually force people to get vaccinated. In the face of these obscurantists, the Government and the majority have gone to bed, whereas the text actually provided nothing but an obligation to be vaccinated or tested for a few activities, to take a preventive or curative medicine in a given situation, that is to say, what is already being applied! So try to go to Corsica next week without taking a PCR test... If we were able to impose the obligation of vaccination, perhaps it would be implemented. In any case, even what this text provided for, you did not implement it; Even that! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] In these circumstances, should we always vote for the extension of the state of emergency that you are calling for? Well, for the first time, we won't. In the face of a deaf government and a majority that refuses to listen to anyone and anything, we can no longer trust you. We will vote against this extension.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u66	The general discussion is closed. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the public vote on this bill as a whole will take place on Tuesday, February 9, following questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u67	We only came here for that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u68	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u69	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u70	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic (No. 3649 corrected, 3797).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u71	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with clause 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u72	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u73	We have regularly wondered, during the examination of this text, whether it was a text of freedom or a text of coercion; I believe that this article shows us that it is a mobilization text. We were often asked whether the provisions were fair or whether their scope was too broad; We're looking at an article that just types. For forty years we have let the third parties of trust leave, as we call them, we have allowed this fabric of associative federations to die. Madam Minister responsible for citizenship, you said in committee that we know how to train public servants, but not necessarily associations. When I was young, we knew how to train the associations, the federations took care of it. They disappeared because we let those third parties go. This article will allow us to address this issue, particularly when we debate our amendments on the reception of minors, which has become a derogation only. There is a need to consolidate the fabric of associations with approvals that allow for the reception of minors – some 20 of them – and to control those who do not have them, demanding that they respect the principle of neutrality. We cannot allow, in our neighbourhoods, the reception of minors organized by large federations to become minority, they leave these territories, to be replaced by a wild derogatory reception organized by the people we want to fight and that we absolutely no longer control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u74	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u75	The discussion of this article allows me, first of all, to pay tribute to the work of the associations, which establish the links between our society. The vast majority of associations participate in the promotion of republican values, especially that of fraternity, and embody the republican model; It is perhaps for this very reason that they are now victims of attacks, attempts to enterrism and the diversion of their object. Some even use the freedom of association that our Constitution protects to serve a separatist objective. Article 6 provides for the creation of a Republican contract of engagement which makes the granting of a public subsidy conditional upon its signature. Its content is known and simple; In committee, we have enriched it and clarified its definition: it is a commitment "to respect the principles of freedom, equality, fraternity, respect for the dignity of the human person", but also "the minimum requirements of life in society and the fundamental symbols of the Republic". I am surprised that, as a result of our discussion, some colleagues – minorities, I hope – and opposition groups have tabled amendments to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u76	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u77	[[Protests on the benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] It seems surprising to me, to say the least, that associations that promote a model in which women are not equal to men or child labour are able to dispose of public money. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The public subsidy is not a right, and it seems to me normal that the legislator should plan to control its granting and possibly its reimbursement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u78	That's disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u79	Mr Yves Blein has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u80	Article 6 is of course an opportunity to recall the essential role of associative life. Our contemporary society sometimes has the art of enriching our vocabulary with new words, including that of whistleblowers, which emerged a few years ago. However, if we looked carefully at the 70000 associations that are created each year, we would find among them very many whistleblowers: people who come together to take care of an unfilled need, to defend a cause, to share an analysis, to organize a solidarity felt as necessary, to share a passion. What if certain associations were, in a certain way, the vanguard of weak signals of republican sentiment, guaranteeing that the defence of the particular interest evolves towards the promotion of the collective interest, then general? This path is in itself a training, a pre-accession to the Republic, an apprenticeship that 9 million of our fellow volunteers who are committed to a collective daily practice. Many of us are from associative life, a ground for political commitment, and a concrete illustration of the promotion of the values of the Republic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is one of the reasons why it is important to protect her, to ensure that some do not take advantage of her virtues to pursue other goals. This article, which will be enriched, I hope, by amendments, must first strengthen associative life, in keeping with the charter of reciprocal commitments between the State, local and regional authorities and associations of 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u81	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u82	The barbaric assassinations at the Jewish school in Toulouse by a young radicalist Islamist made the effect of a detonator for the Pink City. All religions, without exception, have united. They used fraternity as a weapon of resistance to barbarism. More recently, during the first confinement, all the Toulouse associations joined forces to get to the prefecture and to accelerate the action of the State, as there was an absolute urgency to intervene with our fellow citizens. Only the associations that had remained on the ground were able to really support them. Religions and associations have this in common: the art of welcoming the other. As this crisis puts many people on their knees, let us be careful not to weaken them by thinking of protecting us. We cannot legislate by being completely dried up spiritually as we cannot legislate by underestimating the power of fraternity. Today, we are engaged in this difficult exercise of imposing a contract of republican engagement on the people most engaged in our society, the volunteers, the people most disinterested in substance but most interested in the fate of our fellow citizens. The million and a half associations did not wait for us to engage precisely where the Republic was no longer present. But it is not a due: it is the commitment of a handful for all. In 90% of cases, they are volunteers who do not count their time. On the front line to welcome the victims of the crisis who are coming in, many are exhausted. Their commitment, which does not pay for words, is vital to our society. It could even become viral, representing a plan of salvation for young people who would join the community world to find meaning. We must not curb this commitment but encourage it. For a handful of associations that do not respect republican principles and whose control would be justified, we will curb many others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u83	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u84	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] As we submit them to an additional requirement, I propose, at the same time, to act to strengthen them, including materially, to simplify their lives, to pool their skills, to simplify the administrative imbroglio and timing of grant applications. So that they can devote themselves fully to their actions on the ground to our fellow citizens, let us commit ourselves, as we ask them to commit themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u85	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u86	Article 6 of this bill provides for the creation of a Republican engagement contract between associations requesting public funding and public institutions. I welcome this measure, which will be implemented in practice in our territories. I would like to share with you an experience from my local engagement. At a meeting of the municipal council of the city of Grenoble, then a meeting of the metropolitan council Grenoble Alpes Métropole, I proposed the adoption of a charter of secularism, which would make the granting of subsidies conditional on the respect of the principles of the Republic by the associations. It was unfortunately rejected on two occasions: obviously at the meeting of the municipal council, by the green and red majority of Éric Piolle and La France insoumée, and, alas, also at the meeting of the metropolitan council, during which it won forty-eight votes against fifty. This is the very illustration that the cardinal values and principles of the French Republic are weakened, poorly defended, poorly considered and sometimes even challenged. We cannot continue on this dangerous path. We need a structural reminder: we must go through the law to reaffirm the power and value of French secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u87	They really don't doubt anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u88	It is a necessary framework in our time to avoid public actors – I am thinking, for example, of the city of Grenoble and Grenoble Alpes Métropole – being trapped again, as they were by financing, alas, the CCIF – the Collective against Islamophobia in France. Faced with the retreat of a part of the political class out of ignorance, out of ideology, out of renunciation, we have no choice but to forcefully reaffirm our principles by the authority of the law. If the term "contract" is open to debate, however, I hope that any request for a public subsidy will have to be the subject of a commitment by the association to respect the principles of republican authority. Infringement of this undertaking may result in the return of the subsidy. If it is obvious that this contract of engagement will not solve everything, far from it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u89	We've heard the arguments before! Maybe we can move on to the amendments now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u90	Mr Le Fur, I imagine that if you have something to say, you will ask me for the floor and I will gladly give it to you at that time. Mrs Chalas, you have the floor to continue your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u91	The contract of engagement, I said, will be a significant tool on which to build in order to continue the fight against all forms of separatism and strengthen the promotion of republican values and principles. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This bill will also have to be accompanied by all the preventive and integration measures that the various politicians can apply on the ground, and educational and pedagogical measures that the school of the Republic must put in place in a concrete way. Convinced by this situation, I wish to fully defend in the National Assembly this Republican contract of engagement and the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u92	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u93	Article 6 concerns associations, allies of the Republic and engines of integration, socialisation and innovation for our citizens and all territories. The action of the associations, for the vast majority of them, takes place at the best. However, I find it difficult to deny the communal enterrism that can sometimes occur in order to lock their members, especially the younger ones, in an ideology and to separate them from the Republic. That is why, in order to ensure respect for fundamental freedoms and public order, we want the associations to enter into a Republican contract of engagement, a condition for the issuance or maintenance of public subsidies. Of course, there is already the charter of reciprocal commitments, which is a fine work done in 2014 with the voluntary movement and local and regional authorities, but it has no legal value. Since the introduction of this bill and during its consideration in a special committee, consultations have been held with the Minister for Citizenship and the community movement to jointly draft the terms of this Republican contract of engagement. In that regard, the Special Commission had made improvements, in particular by preferring the concept of "respect" for public order to that originally envisaged by the Government of "safeguard". In addition, we have specified that the obligation to enter into this republican contract of engagement will be deemed satisfied with regard to approved associations that would apply for subsidies. I believe that it is necessary to do so. The aim of the text is to combat separatism and not to impede freedom of association,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u94	That's what he's gonna do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u95	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... so that the expression of this freedom does not lead some, especially the younger ones, to separate themselves from the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u96	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u97	This article, which Gérald Darmanin described as very important, is a bit like the text. Many things are described as very important when they are not really important. With regard to article 4, a crime of separatism was pompously mentioned... That is a lie, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u98	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u99	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u100	You voted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u101	I would point out that the purpose of Article 4 is to penalize those who attack officials performing a public service mission. These individuals can actually act for separatist reasons, but there are so many other ways of doing separatism in our country! You're in communication. With regard to the Republican contract of engagement, I would first like to say that the term "contract" is inappropriate, since it normally implies a contractual approach between two parties. Its use seems all the less appropriate here as it could lead to an increase in the fact that it is enough to commit to the republican principles to be entitled to a subsidy, which is not the case. As you know, the granting of a grant is a discretionary competence of the deliberative assemblies. Secondly, you are aware, Madam Minister, that this text has raised a great deal of concern in the associative world, which has seen it as a sign of distrust. Once again, it is in the image of your text. If you don't tackle the target, you're disrupting religious and associative balances that don't pose any problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u102	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u103	[[Approval on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, article 6 is similar to a display that will not distract Islamists from their evil project. Clearly, those who undertake a project against the Republic will continue to do so without applying for subsidies and thus without being subject to this type of contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u104	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u105	We agree with the intentions of Article 6, although we have some doubts as to the inconclusive nature of some of the provisions contained therein. But that is not the subject of my intervention. Madam Deputy Minister, it is commendable and desirable that associations should be obliged to commit themselves, and then that they should be monitored for compliance with this commitment. However, once such a measure is proclaimed in the law, it must be enforced effectively. However, it appears that situations are not as simple as the text or certain speeches might suggest. Also, since decrees and circulars will have to be drafted, it seems to us necessary that information between the municipalities and the State circulates better. What takes place in the changing rooms or at a meeting of an association, or a section of a large association, is not necessarily visible to the mayor or delegate of the prefect. Things can be better identified by other actors, such as territorial intelligence. The CLSPDs – local security and crime prevention councils – which became CLSPDR after they were joined in the fight against radicalisation, should have a "action sheet", almost mandatory, so that this exchange of information takes place, in a very limited way, between the intelligence services, the delegate of the prefect when there is one and the representatives of the municipal services, even departmental ones. In this area, there is often some saying, but few objective findings. It is therefore necessary to carry out checks, including unannounced checks. Indeed, when they are announced in advance, the checks do not allow us to know whether, in certain activities of an association, there are speeches of radicalization, prayer sessions, or other things of this kind. It is thanks to a better transmission of information that the text will not be merely a proclamation and will actually be applied on the ground. That is what we wanted to draw the Government's attention to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u106	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u107	In line with the Act of 1884 establishing trade union freedoms, the Act of 1901 created the official framework for the recognition of associative freedoms. In introducing the bill, Pierre Waldeck-Rousseau distinguished freedom of association in the following terms: "The word is correct, in the sense that it is no more permissible to compel someone to join the association than to prohibit it. But if it wants to implement this right, it must be addressed to other citizens; He must lay down with these people the basis of an agreement, which he forms, in a word, a contract. This is why Article 1 of the draft defines association: a convention between two or more persons for a specific purpose. Thus, in the 1901 Act, this "contract" translates into the precise word "convention". Here you want to add a contract to the contract. This is, moreover, a higher contract than the first, and is not one, since it would be a unilateral act by which the associations would undertake to respect the principles of the Republic; a kind of pre-subsidy oath, a solemn promise. This leads to widespread suspicion about the associations by which the danger would be likely to occur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u109	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u110	It looks like an act of allegiance. Signing this contract would confer a blank-seing, a certificate of respectability, a "pre-patent of republican conformity", to use the expression used by many community leaders in a forum. What an infantilization! Earlier, one of our colleagues said, "We just type. In fact, just type! (Laughter and applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds.) I am surprised, moreover, that with this text and on this subject you presented yourself as guardians of the temple.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u111	We'll see what your vote will be later!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u112	What problem are you really going to solve with this measure? Will you then target the trade unions, which are also organisations? Maybe you've been thinking about it. What did you think then? In any case, your approach, along with this text and others, expresses the will of a society under control. This measure, the effectiveness of which remains to be demonstrated, has been received as a measure of distrust, undermining the spirit of freedom of association. Its formulation was criticized by the Council of State. However, the 1901 law cannot be accused of being lax, since it is also the vector of a resolute struggle by the Republic against religious congregations. It provides for the possibility of dissolution and states that an association may not be founded "on a cause or with a view to an unlawful object, contrary to the laws, morals, or which is intended to undermine the integrity of the national territory and the republican form of the Government". When an association declares itself in prefecture to obtain legal personality, it enters in fact into this framework. So the bill actually clearly identifies associations receiving grants as relays, if not instruments, while their project, while respecting the Republic, is not necessarily the promotion of its principles. I would add that it is already written in the law that any subsidy is made on the basis of the public interest. As a result, associations that assist and strengthen the Republic through the action of associated citizens are found to be useful. The formula you are proposing can give rise to multiple interpretations and thus to the exercise of discretion. Indeed, not only reminding you of the respect for republican principles, as defined in our texts, you reformulate them for the occasion. This formal and mandatory commitment is a loss of meaning. But we need true associative vitality, because associative life is a pillar of our democracy and a powerful decline in our fundamental freedoms, which can be exercised in common without altering the freedom of everyone. From this point of view, there is cause for concern, as the associative movement has been weakened by market offensives, weak public policies and, sometimes, lack of trust or toxic relationships with certain associations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Through the associative movement, there emerges aspirations, responses that sometimes push the Republic to make it live. I want to pay tribute to these human commitments of everyday life, where the social bond is forged and the common good is built. Associations are not a danger, they are an opportunity against withdrawal and individualization, and for participation and emancipation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u113	All right, Mr. Dharréville!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u114	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u115	We are very committed to this article 6, which provides for the Republican contract of engagement that some communities have already established, such as the Île-de-France region or the city of Montpellier. We are also very attached to associative freedom. All freedom must be considered under the prism of responsibility. It is for this reason that the Republican contract of engagement makes sense to us. Respecting republican principles is not an option, but an obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u116	So it's not a contract!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u117	Respect for these principles is fundamental for nationhood and society. Associative freedom is important, as is the missions of associations, such as social cohesion and the emancipation of the individual. When an association or association cadres use associative freedom to fight against republican principles, to promote separatism, or to enter into sports or cultural associations, there is a danger to the Republic and there must be an answer. In this regard, I believe that the Republican contract of engagement is a good solution. As you know, the Group of the European People's Party is very committed to training, so we will be presenting several amendments in this area. Indeed, we believe that the training of managers and associative managers in the principles of secularism and republican principles, as well as in the fight against discrimination, is a priority. We will be able to protect them from people who can enter into their association, just as we will be able to protect members of associations that can be used by their managers and managers for purposes other than serving their social, cultural, educational, or sporting vocation. It is in no way contradictory to what my colleague Sandrine Mörch has said excellently: it is necessary to help associations, particularly in financial terms, and to simplify their task. This is not the purpose of this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u118	Indeed, it cannot be said that this text contributes to this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u119	It's even exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u120	... but this is an important subject, because, everywhere on the ground, we need associations; I see it in the 18th arrondissement of Paris. We often criticize the city's policy, which it is always possible to improve, but if we did not have the neighbourhood associations, whether they work in the field of school support, culture or sport, the social fabric and cohesion would be severely damaged in our country. I repeat, the purpose of this article is to protect associations, to enable them to continue to work well and to protect the interests of both managers and managers, as well as members and members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u121	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u122	I will start with a word of appreciation about the spirit of the law, about what each one feels confusedly and, first and foremost, about associations. They have told us, they have told you, to regret this spirit of distrust, which is perhaps the proper one of our times, but against which we must fight with determination, because the Republic is first and foremost a great act of confidence. From certain provisions of the law, amendments and discussions that we have been pursuing for hours, the idea emerges that the suspicion of betrayal and deviance would weigh on everyone. In our institutions, we would almost have to entrust Commissioners with the task of ensuring respect for each of our values, as if the air we breathe were not above all a republican air for the vast majority of us, as if the Republic and democracy were not an ethic, a moral that is common to us, even though these are our strength in the face of all those who would like to divide us and contest the values that underlie us as a French people, I was going to say: as a republican people. While you are saying that this bill is a piece of freedom, I am afraid that you would prefer the word over the word, and that, in particular, by section 6, we were not moving away from our great liberal laws like that of 1901, the fruit of a very long process that began in the French Revolution. For things have not been done in a day or simply. It took time to accomplish, in the 1901 law, what Tocqueville had stated: "In democratic countries, the science of the association is the mother science; the progress of all others depends on the progress of that one. » [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] Apart from this reflection on the general spirit of the law, it seems to me – I have not heard any opposing opinions on the benches of this assembly – that associative engagement in all its forms is undoubtedly one of the most complete expressions of democracy, one of the most authentic manifestations of what it means to be a citizen, especially a citizen of our Republic. In the moment we are living, we have the chance to be able to count on the commitment of millions of French in hundreds of thousands of associations which, every day, fight in action against separatism; They do "reparatism", in the proximity of those who need it most, who suffer and who are sometimes abandoned by the Republic itself, to which it sometimes fails to keep its promises – I am talking about the Republican promises present in the speech of the Walls, but absent from the bill. The Republican contract of engagement arouses caution on the part of the Council of State and the CNCDH – National Advisory Commission on Human Rights – which yesterday gave a very reserved opinion on your bill and regrets that it was not submitted earlier by the Government. She wondered about the effectiveness of the text. The 1901 law – as Pierre Dharréville recalled – offers a precise and binding legal framework. Indeed, an association whose object would be unlawful and contrary to the principles of the Republic is illegal. In addition, there is no entitlement to the subsidy. Finally, it is always possible to act: one can pursue an association or withdraw an authorization from it, or even carry out an administrative investigation, as the Federation of Social and Sociocultural Centres of France – FCSF – did, a secretary of state who had been hampered by the way a meeting she had attended had taken place. Both the voluntary movement and the High Council for Associative Life doubt that Article 6 is necessary. In 2014, we worked together to develop a charter of mutual commitments requiring any association that requests grants to respect the principles of our Republic. I would point out that the CERFA document it signs, by which it undertakes to respect them, is enforceable, which guarantees that no euro of our Republic will go to its enemies. I would have liked the impact assessment to provide specific examples, including the names of associations advocating discrimination between women and men, or racist associations, which a public authority would have subsidized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u123	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u124	We would have seen more clearly what we were tackling. In my view, it is possible to bring the charter of reciprocal commitments to the normative level. This is what the associations propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u125	And that's what we want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u126	A decree, which the Assembly will not examine, sets out the format of the decree, but it came to us the day before our debate – so a little late. Undoubtedly, we miss an opportunity to strengthen associations as a means of combating separatism. This text will undermine the liberal character of the 1901 law: because of the obligation to sign the Republican contract of engagement, it will subject to a form of prior authorization of many associations that live on public subsidies and help us in a demanding way in the fulfilment of the missions of general interest that we all believe in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u127	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u128	That's where we're at. You need to hear the community movement, which the bill is worried about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u129	Rightfully!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u130	You're not here to reassure him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u131	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The consultation you claim to have with him right now can't be just a word.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u132	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u133	What is the associative movement? They are men and women who come together to defend an idea, a cause, to serve others, to defend the general interest. Whether in a cultural, charitable or sporting approach, especially when directed towards young people, they do popular education. I'll stop for a moment on that notion. What better way to learn the principles of the Republic than to share such an approach, which consists of learning with others, acting, building up, getting rich with others? This is the approach of popular education supported by the community movement. It is true – we have discussed it recently with some colleagues – that in recent decades, the latter has lost both resources and the power to act or reflect on this approach. To defend the principles of the Republic, to leave them in the debate alive and shared by the greatest number of people, the urgency is therefore, not to sign a new contract, but to help the community movement to regenerate, expand and take young people into the great adventure of creating an association. Let us not forget the content of the 1901 Act and the 2014 Charter of Reciprocal Commitments resulting from a consultation between associations, the State and local and regional authorities. These documents exist. If one or more associations have an approach, behaviour, speech or action contrary to the principles of the Republic, we therefore have tools to counter them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u134	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u135	I'm sorry, rapporteur-general, we can withdraw an approval. I did. So don't pretend there's no tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u136	With 80% derogations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Instead of adding new constraints to the associative world, try instead to allow it to regain vitality. This is what will do the Republic good.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u139	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u140	Although I am obviously very sensitive to the introduction of Marie-George Buffet and to the definition of the association movement that she has just proposed, I will not draw the same conclusions as she did. We have a good debate. I know that Mr Le Fur is eager to defend his amendment No 651, which will delete the article, which will give us a fresh start to our discussion, but I think that our exchanges are as rich as they are necessary. I would like to show how paradoxical the attitude of the opposition is, because what are we talking about? Of an associative world, certainly, but also of an associative framework, that – we must see – some have managed to divert from its object in order to use the money of the Republic to fight against it. So we need to find a way to help communities and public authorities, not only to use their discretion to grant or refuse a grant – for that, in fact, they don't need us: they're free and, thanks to heaven, the granting of a grant is not systematic – but also to go back to recent decisions. To do this, we need tools that are otherwise more powerful than those we currently have. That's what we're trying to create. The bill also issues a message. It is paradoxical that those who deplore that we are never going far enough are denouncing the unbearable pressure we would place on associations. The message that we want to convey is addressed to all our fellow citizens: not a penny of the Republic will go to the enemies of the Republic. We need this pedagogy to bring the French a security, a serenity on the use of public money. In this regard, the bill seems to me to have struck a balance. One last word: to hear you, the community would be opposed to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u142	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u143	Admit that there is a certain diversity in the associative world! On the contrary, some have expressed themselves to say that the Republican contract of engagement, far from hindering them, will strengthen them and secure them. For many, it is simply a question of ticking a box on a CERFA form, and it will be very good like that. But if associations lie by doing this formality, we will now have a tool to fight them. This is the issue of Article 6. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In committee, we have had debates which have enabled us to improve the text. We will continue to do so. But the reality is that we are going to give local authorities, public authorities in general and associations the means to stay within the framework of the Republic, while pushing those who are trying to manipulate our institutions to divert public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u144	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u145	This debate about associations, their commitments, the control of their actions and the public money they can receive is essential. In addition, it allows us to say in this Chamber that in France we have an exceptional opportunity to have so many associations and volunteers who engage in a disinterested way out of solidarity, out of a desire to help each other. I am a Member of Parliament for Maghreb and West Africa. In these territories, thousands of French associations abroad manifest themselves every day to give a hand, award a scholarship, accompany children to school or act in solidarity, on a voluntary basis. This is fraternity, too. Even if it is harder to give her a face than to freedom or equality, she has one: that of these thousands of associations whose members act without asking for anything in return. Today, we will ask them to sign the Republican commitment contract when they apply for a public subsidy. That's a good thing. Be careful however: several press articles I have read here and there denounce sports associations because, in a dressing room, someone refuses to shower naked. They are immediately accused of suffering Islamist influences or being at the boot of the Muslim Brotherhood. When I was younger and basketball, I undressed without difficulty to take a shower. But some friends, who were embarrassed, preferred to keep a underwear. However, La Géraldienne in Aurillac was never accused of Islamism! Let us therefore pay attention to reporting and denunciation. You have to frame things to avoid falling into ridiculous messes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u146	Mr François de Rugy, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u147	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I am one of those who think that clause 6 is one of the most important of this bill, because it gives a lever of action to all local elected officials, to the state – at least to all public authorities, to all their officials who vote for grants to associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of your group have had an opportunity to speak. Let's hear Rugy's point of view; You can answer him later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u149	I listened carefully to the interventions, all interesting, which presented different points of view. Mr. Hetzel, you have intervened several times from your seat to challenge. You will have the opportunity to do so, when defending your deletion amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u150	I'm counting on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u151	... and explain why you want to remove the leverage we give to field actors, who are in contact with associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u152	I'm assuming my position!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u153	Mr Vallaud, you referred to the 1901 law on the contract of association, which forms part of the series of major founding laws of the Republic of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, along with the law on freedom of the press and the law of 1905 concerning the separation of churches and the State, of course. The effects of the 1901 law went beyond all expectations, since more than a hundred years after its adoption, the momentum for the creation of associations continues; It's that it's very easy to create them in our country, and that's so much better. But the freedoms that one creates are often diverted by some, who use them to turn against the Republic. We should really wear particularly narrow eyes to avoid seeing that, in our country, this is the case of certain uses of freedom of association and subsidies paid to them by public bodies in a wide variety of forms. [[Exclaims]] Mr Vallaud, you said you doubted the existence of racist associations. But of course our country counts, unfortunately, associations that conduct racist actions, even if they do not say so openly! Yes, I'll give you an example. At one time, you had to protest, with me and others, when an association subsidized by a town hall organized soup kitchens for pigs, with the explicit aim of excluding a part of the population, thus breaking with the principle of equality, which, as a fundamental republican principle, is enshrined in the Republican contract of engagement. Thanks to this bill, if the mayor of the municipality in question, unfortunately re-elected since this case, maintains these subsidies, the inhabitants of the municipality and the members of the opposition on the municipal council – I imagine there are – will be able to question him and ask for the restitution of these subsidies used to carry out anti-republic activities and to breach the contract of engagement republican!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u155	That's a real effect! And if the mayor refuses – you know as well as I do that some people allow or even cause anti-republican behaviour – the inhabitants of the municipality will be able to apply to the administrative court for restitution of the subsidy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u156	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u157	But yes, you can already do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u158	You know as well as I do that there are many examples of this type. I hear some say: "It will be enough for the associations concerned not to apply for a grant. Of course, but this will seriously limit their ability to act. Moreover, I do not know many associations, among those offering school support, sports or socio-cultural activities, which do not receive grants. I do not know what is happening in your territories, but in mine, where I was born, and where I have been elected for twenty years, I can tell you that all associations of this type ask and receive, all – and that is very good. We all know that it is often the related activities that are problematic. This is the case, for example, when the leaders of an association apply for a grant for a post-school support or accompaniment activity, but take advantage of it to carry out anti-republicain activities, in order to indoctrinate children, to teach them that men and women must be treated unequally. Thanks to the Republican commitment contract, we will have a clear answer. The local elected officials in good faith, who discover after the grant has been paid that an association hides anti-republican activities – sometimes they cannot know before – will be able to turn against it to blame it, not not to organize the activities for which it has been subsidized, but to carry out others, in parallel, that are anti-republican. This contract will therefore have a powerful leverage effect. Finally, I come to concerns. While Mr. Hetzel has not yet spoken on the microphone, he has repeatedly stated from his headquarters that the associations are right to be concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u159	Yeah, I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u160	The thematic rapporteurs interviewed many heads of associations in special committees. In the beginning, religious leaders – as well as those responsible for obediences and Masonic lodges – asked us whether this bill did not affect freedom of association, whether charitable associations linked to cults, large or small, local or national, could sign this Republican contract of engagement, and whether they would not be in danger of encountering difficulties in asking for the renewal of their subsidies. We replied that it was not in any way a matter of Article 6 to aim at the establishment of associations on a confessional basis, since it is not in itself anti-republican. Now, if some associations have fears, it is only that their conception of their action or Republican commitment is problematic! Mr Hetzel, in the special committee, some Members of your group had tabled an amendment which, many of us have rejected, aimed at obliging associations formed on a denominational basis to deconfession in order to sign the Republican contract of engagement and receive subsidies. I told many community leaders that this was not our conception at all. Moreover, article 6 makes no mention of religious issues, only "republican principles. Associations of this type therefore have no concern to have; and they have now understood it. On the other hand, the concern of some associations is well founded: I am thinking of those who do not want to commit themselves to respecting not only the principles of freedom, equality, dignity of the human person, but also public order – since the expression is inscribed black on white in the article, and it is very well so. Yes, I do not see why the state and local authorities would finance with public money acts contrary to public order, illegal actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u161	On that, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u162	Yes, we know a lot of these cases, in our territories! In fact, if some associations are concerned, it is because they do not want to take on their own actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u163	Names!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u164	We do not want associations that conduct anti-republican actions to be fed by the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u165	What associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u166	It's not very specific, all of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u167	I call Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u168	Mr Vallaud, you want to fight separatism, we all want it, whatever it is. And you say, in a very fair expression, that I take it back to myself, that associations make daily "reparatism" – of social reparation – through their socio-educational activities, of accompaniment. As Marie Guévenoux said during her speech on the article, this is the first message we must send to the associations of France – I am speaking under your eyes, Mr Blein – because they are carrying out a colossal work. This article is obviously not based on the idea that they constitute a major disorder of public order in France. On the contrary, they bring appeasement, presence, and proximity, with, for the most part, public funding, as the chairman of the special commission has pointed out at the moment. That is our essential message and it is clear. You're fighting on two opposing fronts. Some, like Mrs Genevard, blame us for creating an automatic right to the public subsidy, once the contract of engagement is signed. Others accuse us of depriving them of associative freedom, of « typing » associations – this is not a nice expression, Mr Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u169	It is not mine, Mr. Rapporteur-General!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u170	However, our intention is very simple. The difference between this text and the 2014 Charter of Reciprocal Commitments, quoted by several of you, is that it has absolutely no legal obligation; On the other hand, we agree, the two texts defend the same ambition. Basically, the issue is not really that of the definition of the content of the contract of engagement, even if the minister and the minister delegate will clarify this – they have already communicated elements to us earlier last week. Indeed, the Council of State notes in its opinion that the concept of "principles of the Republic" "is legally defined, since it refers to principles of domestic law, which are governed by positive law"; Therefore, they should not give rise to any particular discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u171	Nothing new, so...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u172	The real innovation of this article is the obligation of the public authority or the body responsible for the management of an industrial and commercial public service to withdraw or refuse the grant. For local elected officials, in particular, it is both an obligation and a protection if they are subjected to separatist or community pressure. It is therefore a bad debate to accuse some of us of depriving associations of freedom, for others, of not bringing anything new, since the charter of reciprocal commitments already exists. The important thing is that we add legal consequences, which will allow public authorities to draw all conclusions from the drifts of minority associative structures; They will even force them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u173	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u174	Much has been said about associations governed by the 1901 Act; I, for my part, would like to commend their deep commitment. Whether or not they are subsidized, many of them do not simply respect republican principles; They move forward, act to defend them, very often by relying on the commitment of volunteers who give their time. As we legislate on republican principles, the associations provide a tremendous illustration of them, including the principles of fraternity, self-giving, giving to each other and giving his time – it seemed to me important to remind him. Secondly, to hear the interventions of each other, I have the feeling that we share the same objective: to strengthen associations in their fundamental role, but also to protect ourselves against any risk of deviating associations under the 1901 law that would convey separatist ideologies. Not a euro of public money must finance the enemies of the Republic; That's the raison d'être of the Republican engagement contract. It should be recalled that this contract has been the subject of a broad, long and dense consultation with many stakeholders. The Minister of the Interior and I have received a large number of representatives from elected organizations and associations; Similarly, with my colleague Sarah El Haïry, responsible for youth and community engagement, I have received representatives of the community movement and many associations. That is why I remain cautious when I hear that "associations" think this or that – and I have the same reaction when I hear what "feminists" think. The associative movement is dense and plural. Of course, the concerns mentioned here exist, but I also note that major associations such as the International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism – LICRA – and many others...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u175	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u176	... published texts and fora and took a position in favour of the contract of engagement. The bill was substantially amended during the consultations and subsequent work of the special commission. In committee, Members expressed concerns and proposed improvements, sometimes simplifications. The text that came out of this work is different from the original bill and I welcome the commitment of the special commission: progress shows that its work has not been in vain. The Government has not sought to impose a binding text, on the contrary; The consultations have made it possible to improve it, and the debate is continuing. Why this contract of engagement? It will, of course, be used by the State – whether it be the central government or the prefectures – to decide on the allocation of subsidies. In particular, it will be a tool for local elected officials. In this respect, I am surprised to hear in the Chamber statements that are sometimes very different from those heard by elected officials on the ground, regardless of their party. The elected officials tell us they need the contract of engagement...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u177	What elected ones? Present them to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u178	... because the charters they are trying to pass are contested or even attacked in court. This is the case of the president of the department of Val-d'Oise – an elected member of the Republican party – who, in December, wanted to create a charter of secularism and values of the Republic, but also of Michaël Delafosse, socialist mayor of Montpellier, who again declared this week, on a national radio channel, how much the Republican contract of engagement is necessary for him – because he is under legal attack for wanting to establish a similar charter. Similarly, in Île-de-France, Valérie Pécresse proposed a charter that was immediately challenged because, like the others, it has no legal value. It is therefore in order to provide local elected officials with the tools they need that we propose the Republican contract of engagement, which, in turn, will have legal value. Émilie Chalas described the operation very well, recalling how fundamental it is, whether it is to support courageous local elected officials or to grant public subsidies. Let us not oppose the political world to the associative world. You know better than anyone how much one and the other are connected. In this respect, Yves Blein's illuminating intervention has shown that certain developments can support the associations – I am thinking of the proposal made by several Members to repute signatories to the contract of engagement the approved associations, proposed by Fabienne Colboc and the implementation of which has been explained by Marie Guévenoux. You fear, Mrs. Genevard, that this text will cause disruption. Precisely, we demand it! We want not only to disrupt a state of affairs, but to put an end to it. The creation of the Republican contract of engagement is not intended to disturb nothing, to leave everything in the state. On the contrary, it is used to remove the dust that is under the carpet and to put an end to the subsidies granted to associations that support Islamist ideology. We assume it perfectly and you yourself, of which everyone knows the commitment to the fight against radical Islamism, will no doubt be able to support this contract – the examples cited by Pierre-Yves Bournazel go in this direction. Mr Lagarde proposed to amplify the fight against radicalisation within the framework of the CLSPDs: this is a good proposal. It is in this spirit that the national strategy for the prevention of crime, which the Prime Minister issued in December, provides for the obligation to add the R of radicalisation to the acronym of the CLSPDs, so that they become the communal bodies for the fight and prevention not only of delinquency, but also of radicalisation. I hear your concerns about the world of associations, Mr Vallaud, and we know your commitment to it. I also heard the concerns of some associations at the beginning of the consultation process, but you will have found that many of them were convinced by the text enriched by the work of the special committee. Many associations expressed support for the Republican contract of engagement, believing that it would be part of their communication to their members. Ms Buffet referred with conviction to the charters already in place; We share the purpose of the report and do not question the usefulness of it, but I would like to point out, as the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the special committee did, that none of them has the force of law. They therefore do not constitute a sufficient basis for obtaining reimbursement of subsidies unduly paid. Again, several local elected officials have expressed their concerns after granting grants to associations that they have just found to be preaching separatist ideologies; However, they cannot obtain the repayment of the sums paid, as shown by the concrete example given by the mayor of Grenoble. Guillaume Vuilletet explained well that the Republican contract of engagement will allow precisely to recover this public money. As the President of the Republic has said in his wishes to the representatives of the cults, how can we explain to the French that their taxes are used to finance separatist activities? None of us can endorse him. This is the subject of the Republican contract of engagement. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to point out that the associations covered by the 1901 Act offer an area of freedom and action. They are, of course, a pillar of social cohesion and of defence and respect for republican principles. The contract of engagement strengthens the bond of trust between the state and the communities on the one hand and the associations on the other, in order to better protect citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u179	On what basis and on what subject do you wish to make a point of order, Mr El Guerrab?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u180	On the basis of Rule 55 and on the subject – which we are talking about behind the scenes – of the speaking time allocated to groups in the context of the scheduled legislative time procedure. Democracy, to which I like everyone here, is Parliament. Parliamentarians must be able to express themselves and support their positions. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [["Oh! On several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] No one will be able to say that my positions closely or far resemble those of Mrs Ménard, for whom I also have the greatest respect and which everyone will agree that she is doing a titanic job. We have a substantive debate on republican principles and secularism, which forces us to question ourselves. Is it right that our colleague Ménard has only a second to speak on the 1500 or so amendments that we still have to consider? For my part, I find it abnormal. If such practices were to take place in an African country, it would be called a banana republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u181	You are familiar with the Assembly's Rules of Procedure and the rules relating to scheduled legislative time, Mr El Guerrab. You are also aware of the allocation of speaking time as decided by the Conference of Presidents. I hear your inquiry, which is legitimate, but the rules are what they are. One can always think about their evolution; In the meantime, they apply and have not been ignored. I would add that, in total, the time available to each non-attached Member exceeds the average time allocated to each Member of the majority group. In any event, the Regulation has been correctly applied; I thank you, however, for highlighting this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u182	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 380, 499, 587, 651, 690, 992, 1581, 2019 and 2465, aimed at deleting the article. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 380.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u183	This deletion amendment is based on several arguments. First of all, you cannot say that it took place, Madam Deputy Minister. During the hearings which preceded the debates of the special commission, all the actors of the voluntary movement regretted the lack of consultation and made it clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u184	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u185	The High Council for Associative Life said the same thing in its opinion. Perhaps you are now in search of lost time in concertation, but the Republican contract of engagement has been imposed in the text and has not been the subject of any consultation. Next, one may wonder about the effectiveness of this article, which, like many others, is the wrong target. Associations that have not asked for anything – like families and cults that have not asked for anything – will be bothered, while associations that pose a problem are not targeted. Do you think that associations that are real enemies of the Republic file applications for public subsidies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u186	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u187	If so, give examples and tell us what follow-up you have given – because if the associations in question are really enemies of the Republic and their activities are illegal, I am worried that nothing has been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u188	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u189	There are two things: either the laws as they exist are not enforced because of lack of political will, or the associations concerned do not ask for subsidies. Thirdly, there are concerns about the risk of arbitrary decisions, for example if the regime does not one day become more authoritarian than it is now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u190	He's already authoritarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u191	Even today, we can already question ourselves. Finally, we have substantive differences on two points. The concept of associative freedom, in the first place: at the time of their creation, associations do not have to produce a patent of republican respectability. It is through the republican act of forming an association that citizens already manifest their republicanism; It is not necessary to add to it and to create a suspicion, a mistrust, very badly felt by the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u192	Many associations will be happy to reaffirm republican values.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u193	Attachment to the Republic is in the genes of associations. To force them to sign a Republican contract of engagement is a sign of mistrust. Our second difference concerns the conception of the Republic. Membership of the Republic is not affirmed by signing at the bottom right of a document. It is only in the event of failure that an authoritarian regime imposes from above republican principles whose definition is difficult to define. No, the Republic, it lives, it is shared. There is no need to ask each association – and one day, perhaps, every citizen – to sign a document attesting that it is republican. I even hear expressions like "the children of the Republic": what does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u194	We are all children of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u195	Children are not from the Republic; These are children, people, who live in a family and, of course, who are part of the Republic. Sanctioning those who oppose the laws is one thing; However, to impose a priori the signature of a republican patent seems to me to be a very dangerous concept which appears in Article 6, but which essentially inspires the whole text. It is an authoritarian and vertical conception of the Republic that we are fighting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u196	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u197	At this stage of the debate, it is important that we indicate why we want Article 6 to be deleted. First of all, there is a paradox, quite incredible indeed: when we read closely the draft contract of engagement – which we received only very late: fortunately, the press communicated it before you passed it on to the parliamentarians, Madam Deputy Minister! – we realize that this is in fact a profession of republican faith, whereas the very principle of a profession of faith runs counter to the fight you are leading. Should we have only the faith of the Republic? In addition, there is a great deal of distrust of associations. And contrary to what you're making sure, they feel it: many community leaders have told us about it. As several speakers have already had the opportunity to say, this article will totally miss its target. Indeed, associations that feed a form of separatism will often advance under the radars that you intend to set up. On the contrary, the article will have a counterproductive effect, because you are going to bother associations that pose absolutely no problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u198	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u199	This is a real cause for concern, especially since the Republican contract of engagement also threatens the advocacy and action capacity of the associations concerned by making the payment of public subsidies conditional on what you call "safeguarding public order". It is a very vague legal formulation, which raises concerns that the challenge of certain public policies by a particular association may be judged by the decision-makers as opposing the granting of financial assistance, since it challenges an order established by the Government. This risk is particularly evident with regard to certain forms of engagement that can easily be reclassified as offences, as is the case, for example, with regard to the exclusion or reception of foreigners – I think you have heard the CIMADE's plea in this regard. Mr de Rugy, you tell us that the associations have nothing to fear. But let's take the example of the Anticor association: while she was asking the chancellery, regardless of the debate on this bill, a renewal of her accreditation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u200	It's something else, it has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u201	...she asked her, in fact, unlawfully,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u202	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u203	... a number of documents. Do you really want to go to this field? You will see for yourself that a number of things are happening...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u204	What does this have to do with the contract of engagement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u205	The report? Anticor is an association that respects the established order. And yet you're causing him problems! It will also be necessary to clarify to us, because this is a point on which you are not heard, how you intend to expressly guarantee to the associations that they will retain the freedom to express the foundations of their actions. Some associations are indeed of confessional inspiration: what are you going to do for the Catholic Relief, the Salvation Army, the Scouting Associations, the CIMADE, which clearly defend projects of general interest, but whose foundations undeniably have Christian roots? You can't ignore them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u206	We had the debate in a special committee! Ask Mrs Genevard, she has withdrawn her amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u207	Let me also stress a historical aspect. Let us go back a little further: seventy-seven years ago, from the end of the Pétain government, the various associations, movements and bodies resumed their activities, within the framework of the 1901 law and, for Alsace and Moselle, of the 1908 law. Many associations, like other older ones, defended the secular and republican values and ideals of the Resistance. This development of the associative world, which had been desired by the National Council of the Resistance, clearly and unequivocally acquiesced the rupture with Vichy; It has been built by the recognition of its autonomy and the suppression of any guardianship prior to its operation, in respect of democratic values, the cornerstone of our republican pact. If we wear iron, it is because you tell us that the Republican contract of engagement will help to reaffirm the Republican pact,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u208	It's an argumentary torture!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u209	... when we think on the contrary that you will fundamentally weaken it. You're attacking the very roots of the community! Legally demonstrate how the situation will be better if we adopt the text! All you're going to do is bother associations that there's no reason to bother.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u210	Everything and anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u211	Mr President, I wish to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u212	[[Smile]] Mr Minister, you know the rules of the parliamentary debate, I do not teach you: we will hear the presentation of all the deletion amendments, and the Government will then give its opinion – which we can already anticipate. Amendment No 587 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 651.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u213	We find in this article the real difficulty of this text: since you do not target radical and political Islamism, you touch everyone. The collateral effects are multiple, as we saw yesterday again during the debate on religions – you touch lots of people who have nothing to do with all this! What is the problem with Protestants, Orthodox? There aren't any! However, they are targeted by your text! After yesterday attacking the 1905 law, you are attacking the 1901 law and you are targeting all associations instead of punishing, penalizing and prosecuting really Islamist associations. The laws of 1905 and 1901 are part of our constitutional block, ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the Constitutional Council will not allow such provisions to pass, and I would like to say so even before further consideration is given to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u214	That's not what the Council of State says!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u215	Besides, this case will affect all associations, and in a ridiculous way. When such a request arrives at the association of the bakers, they will laugh at it, it is not serious. But can you imagine how the obligation to sign a certificate of republicanism will be perceived by an association of veterans?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u216	They'll be proud to sign it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u217	They fought for us, and they should also certify that they're Republicans? Who the hell are you laughing at? Moreover, this provision will not be effective at all, because the real thugs will sign the contract! If you ask them, they will even take an oath! They'll hide their intentions, and you'll miss the target you claim you want to achieve. I would like to mention a remarkable person, the President of the Côtes d'Armor Education League, who recently wrote to me. The Ligue de l'enseignement is a secular association, and although I do not share their political sensitivity, it brings together very respectable people. Their president, Yves Le Sidaner, was for a long time the president of the lay Amicale de Saint-Brieuc, this association installed in a huge building opposite the station which, over the years, has accompanied thousands of young people. She has done a huge job, like the Briochin Olympic Club, which, for her part, came from the patronage. Each in its own logic, they have accompanied lots of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u218	Let's draw up a list of all the Côtes-d'Armor associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u219	Yves Le Sidaner, president of the Ligue de l'enseignement – which, in terms of political sensitivity, is close to many of you – wrote to me: "The Ligue de l'enseignement, federation of associations, regrets that certain articles of the bill cast suspicion on all associations, while the aim is to control only some of them, which hijack the 1901 law for cultural, separatist or community purposes. As a whole, associative life constitutes an essential bulwark against separatism, is the place where the rules of life are lived and practiced in society, the place where commons are made. He is the President of the Education League,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u220	Cotes d'Armor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u221	... a structure we can no longer lay, which says so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u222	It's polemic! There's nothing left of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u223	I am convinced that all the education leagues and all the associations they represent will tell you the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u224	I know a lot of associations who will be proud to sign the contract of engagement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u225	Except there, things become concrete! I continue my reading: "At the time of the consideration of this bill, which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, we wish, together with the community movement, that this text be that of strengthening associations, whose actions actually reinforce these principles. This text must not be that of distrust, but must reflect trust between the State, local and regional authorities and associations. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u226	[[Smile]] It's a long letter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u227	"The measures currently provided for in this text carry with them a high risk of weakening associative life in what it has most essential, namely its ability to sustain the debate, including within it, to question, to be a source of citizen mobilization. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u228	He's not talking about Article 6!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u229	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is for these reasons that he invites us not to adopt this article – and others. These are the things that come to us: take them into account and respect freedom! The 1901 Act is one of the pillars of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u230	Long live the lay friendly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u231	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 690.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, if we have tabled this deletion amendment, we are asking ourselves a very simple question: is the idea of a Republican contract of engagement a good idea?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u233	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u234	The answer is no, and I'll explain why. First of all, it is not a contract in the proper sense of the term. In fact, it is not I who say it, but the Council of State which, in its opinion, stated: "Firstly, the Council of State proposes to use the terms "republican engagement" instead of "republican engagement contract", since the latter does not have the nature of a real contract. So let's stop talking about "republican engagement contract." I will not have the cruelty to recall the remarks made by the Minister of the Interior during his hearing before the special committee, who said: "The term contract is probably inappropriate".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u235	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u236	Indeed, a contract is a synallagmatic agreement between two parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u237	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u238	If there is no negotiation, it is a unilateral act: it is then called a contract of accession, and it is quite different. You yourself acknowledged, Minister, that this was "an almost unilateral act." If it's a unilateral act, let's not talk about a contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u239	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's optional!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u240	It is not I who say it, minister, you have declared it in committee – and you have been right to do it! Then, does this pseudo-contract come under the decree provided for in Article 6 – a surprising fact, by the way? Of course, many of us, Madam Minister Delegate, have asked you what would be included in the Order-in-Council. Back then, we didn't know exactly. Since then, we have received this document, which I hardly dare to show: it holds in one page, of which I will read you some excerpts. The draft contract contains seven commitments. The first, entitled "Freedom of conscience" – who could be against it? – first of all requires respect for the freedom of conscience of members and third parties. But wait for the rest...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u241	I know the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u242	Wait, Madam Deputy Minister. I didn't interrupt you earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u243	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u244	[[Laughs on various benches. – Mr. Patrick Hetzel applauds]] Madam Deputy Minister, I have not given you the floor! [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What is sublime is that the second sub-commitment of commitment 1 specifies – fasten your belts – that one must "abstain from abusive proselytism". But that's not right! Even if you could take out this decree, assuming that Article 6 is not deleted by Parliament or censored by the Constitutional Council, I can tell you that you are going to spend 15 minutes in front of the Council of State! Frankly, what does it mean, "to refrain from abusive proselytism"? In this case, we can see that you're tied up! Take the example of the Israelite Scouts, of which we have already spoken: is there not proselytism within the Israelite Scouting? [[Rise and applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] So you prohibit "abuse proselytism": proselytism, yes, but abusive, no! Are you really going to control the abuse of proselytism? This is an example, but I could quote others. One, in particular, is tasty: the commitment "women-men equality". What does it mean for a women's association? Common sense colleagues pointed out that women were free to organize themselves. You can see, through these examples, that your thing doesn't stand up! In reality, as you yourself have recalled, the diversity of the community world is such that it is not possible to have a unique contract of engagement – finally, a pseudo-contract. On the other hand, the principle of secularism, contained in article 1 of the Constitution, is not part of your contract of republican engagement, and for reasons: there are movements of a philosophical, political, religious, absolutely legitimate nature – it is freedom, it is the very expression of democracy. Your pseudo-contract doesn't stand; We shall come back to that when we consider subsequent amendments. Worse still, a number of associations will not fail to make your concept a contrario reading: those who do not seek public subsidies, or refuse them, have the right not to respect the principles of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u245	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u246	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u247	That's great! You say everyone has to respect them. I do not claim anything else: the principles of the Republic, those which the French people have given themselves by its Constitution, are not negotiable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u248	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u249	That is precisely why the Republican contract of engagement is a crazy idea. The good idea in this area, Madam Minister Delegate, was very simple:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u250	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u251	...to bring the charter of reciprocal commitments to the legislative level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u252	There is an amendment that proposes it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u253	The opportunity was missed, alas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u254	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u255	... since this is not mentioned in the decree of 28 December 2016 specifying the characteristics of the single grant application form for associations. So I had fun making a comparison...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u256	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u257	...between your preliminary draft of a pseudo-republican engagement contract and this charter, which has been negotiated by the voluntary movement with the state and local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u258	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u259	This is a real agreement: why not erect it at the legislative level rather than mix the brushes with these pseudo-contracts? In addition, I would like to tell you one or two more things, Madam Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u260	I thought the principles of the Republic were not being negotiated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u261	In the event that, unfortunately, Article 6 would be adopted, was there any question as to whether the offices of the associations within the prefectures would be able to control tens of thousands of associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u262	It's the work of local authorities and local elected officials! They know their associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u263	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I know a little bit about the office of the associations in my department: Mr.Minister of the Interior, since it concerns you, is that where we find the best officials? When there's a sick man, it's in the association office!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u264	It's not nice for officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u265	You're attacking our officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u266	The servants of the State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u267	I assure you, that's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u268	That's unworthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u269	It is not your decision, minister: it is human resources management within your department, and that was the case long before you held this position! Have you visited these offices? Do you know that many associations don't even send their accounts, without anyone telling them anything? This debate is typical of the French discussion: no one wonders whether, once adopted, it will be possible to control its application. In this case, this would not be the case at all. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Why Article 6? To make you believe, as usual, that you're doing something. If, together with several members of my group, I have tabled this deletion amendment, it is because once again you have had a bad idea, which will result in exactly the opposite of what we are looking for. It is not with this article that you will effectively fight against separatism and Islamic fundamentalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u270	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 992.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u271	It will be difficult to be more convincing than Mr. de Courson. I will not go back to the spirit of this text, to the executive's perception of the psyche of the country. For my part, I believe it deeply republican: this is our strength in the face of separatism, which must lead us to block against all the enemies of the Republic. The main issue of doubt is the effectiveness and necessity of this measure. You're saying we can't get a grant back. This is not true: consistent case law shows that if the conditions for granting a grant are not met, it is open to any authority which has paid it to take it back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u272	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u273	Look, for example, at a 2010 Council of State decision. What you want to do is already the right, the positive right. Free to reinvent the powder! From the point of view of necessity, your measure does not contribute anything to the positive order. As far as its effectiveness is concerned, I believe, unlike Mr de Courson, that there are good officials in the offices of the associations: I know that for leading prefectures. On the other hand, are there enough of them? Certainly not. Today, and I am sorry for this, a prefecture of department cannot afford to do its job properly, especially as it is increasingly entrusted with it; I say it with all the nostalgia of the prefectural body that is mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u274	It's split!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u275	There are also a number of difficulties mentioned earlier with regard to this point of non-use and effectiveness. The concept of respect for public order has fortunately been replaced in a special commission with that of safeguarding public order; However, the explanatory memorandum did not differ from the original wording. This poses a risk to a number of associations, some of which have been cited, including those that advocate for the right to housing, against insecurity, or come to the rescue of migrant populations. They are concerned; They must be reassured by the drafting of the text. Moreover, you could have given legal and legislative value to the charter of reciprocal commitments, negotiated in 2014, fiercely, methodically, by devoting the necessary time, with associations and local authorities. We will defend an amendment to that effect, in particular with a view to making it effective against third parties. This would solve a lot of problems, dispel many of the concerns of the community world, and thus serve the objective that, despite everything, we share.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u276	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u277	Excellent presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u278	Mr President, I do not wish to derogate from anything, but only that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on which it seems to me that the Constitution prevails, should also be applied to the members of the Government. As a parliamentarian and observer for parliamentary debates, you will have found that parliamentarians have the right to intervene when they want to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u279	That is why you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u280	It is therefore no exception that you make: the representative of the Government takes the floor whenever he wishes. It has a duty to be at the disposal of Parliament, but also of the rights within the Chamber; This is called streamlined parliamentarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u281	It is a little inappropriate to criticize the presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u282	We should agree on this, Mr Le Fur, since it is the invention of General de Gaulle. She would be grateful if the Government could give its opinion on the amendments under discussion. I will try to be brief so as not to slow down the debate, but it seemed to me important to intervene at the time when Mr Vallaud was defending his amendment, so that the distinction is clear: the deletion amendments already supported are probably not entirely motivated by the same reasons as Mr Mélenchon's, for example. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, I would like to say to Mr de Courson that good officials can be found outside the Court of Auditors. These attacks on prefectures' agents, which are considered to be second zone civil servants, are absolutely scandalous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u283	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u284	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I tell you, Monsieur de Courson: everyone has a share of the truth; You don't have it all. There are in the prefecture of your department, in all the prefectures of France, in the office of associations, people who cannot answer you; There are good and bad, as everywhere; Some of them are great officials. This sentimental way of dealing with public officials is objectively inappropriate! In addition, I have heard you during the three-year budgetary debates calling for a further reduction in public employment. Wouldn't there be enough in the prefectures from now on? It's a bit of coffee! It is not I who, at the time of the reform of the territorial administration of the state – REATE – and of the general review of public policies – RGPP –, in the era of the reform of the territorial administration of the state – REATE – and of the general revision of public policies – RGPP –, never more so! I was the first of the ministers of action and public accounts, and I am proud to be, in seventeen years, the Prime Minister of the Interior, who has not abolished a single position of public servant in the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u285	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u286	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As for the lessons on the number and capacity of civil servants, you would be nice to make your own self-criticism! [[Mr Charles de Courson protested]] Having said that, I would like to underline the inconsistency of the speakers we have just heard. They are not the same as in the special committee – with the exception of Mr Breton, whose consistency I have already had the opportunity to welcome. Mr de Courson, I am referring to the first three speakers: I have not noticed that you are the centre of parliamentary debates. Your attitude towards the Deputy Minister was particularly inappropriate; allow me to answer you in the same tone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u287	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u288	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You don't have to point a finger at me, Congressman. You're attacking officials: again, let their boss answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u289	Mr. President, this is not tolerable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u290	On the background,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u291	We're in the back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u292	[[So what? » on the benches of the LR group]] In substance, Mrs Le Grip, I can read Mr Ciotti's amendments: they are aimed at further tightening the association contract, Mr Hetzel! According to Mr. Le Fur, it is insulting associations to ask them for a Republican contract of engagement. So, what an insult to the officials to make them take the oath!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u293	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u294	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] You have, however, adopted an amendment by Mr Diard, an amendment for which we voted. If you assume that someone is being offended by asking him for something, why this measure? Don't you trust the officials? Still inconsistency, Mr.Le Fur, towards the local authorities: Mrs.Pécresse, the mayor of Orléans, the president of the departmental council would therefore offend the associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u295	It's called free administration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u296	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Inconsistency, Mrs. Genevard! On the subject of the veil, you relied on the opinion of the French. Read the opinion studies, read the survey published this morning by the French Institute of Public Opinion, the FIFG: the first measure demanded by the French, at 83%, is precisely this Republican contract of engagement. Inconsistency, Mr Le Fur, Mr Hetzel, of your own counter-project, presented by Mr Abad: he plans to impose secularism on political parties and associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u297	Politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u298	That's not what we're asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u299	Consult the press, the publications of your party! It's clear that you're looking for every excuse you can to avoid fighting Islamist officiaries. We have the courage to dissolve them; We have the courage to oppose their receiving public subsidies. Furthermore, Mr Hetzel, some of your remarks are totally inconsistent with the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u300	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u301	In a special committee, as the rapporteur-general said, Mrs Genevard withdrew the amendment to refer to secularism in the Republican contract of engagement. You are now telling us that Catholic relief will no longer be able to receive subsidies: this is totally wrong, Mr Hetzel! That is precisely why we say that denominational associations will not be excluded! We defended them in committee against the amendments by Mr Ciotti and Mrs Genevard, who withdrew his.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u302	They want to dechristianize the Catholic Relief!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u303	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur protested]] Frankly, you're a little late for the discussion! I understand why you do it: you absolutely want to... It's gonna be all right, Mr. Le Fur...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u304	You will vote the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u305	...but what you say is not in line with the text. Don't scare our fellow citizens who look at us! We've understood what's going on! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to reply to Mr de Courson, who points out, at times ironically, our lack of legal precision. I refer him to the Kokkinakis judgment against Greece of the European Court of Human Rights of 25 May 1993, taken over by the Council of State. I would remind you that the latter has validated the whole of Article 6 and even stressed its relevance, which makes us very confident in the Constitutional Council's assessment. According to this judgment, validated by numerous deliberations of administrative courts and by the Conseil d'État, proselytism in itself is not prohibited: only aggressive or abusive proselytism is prohibited, which clearly constitutes a disturbance to public order. The case law contains many judgments on this subject, which you should not hesitate to refer to, Mr. de Courson, before saying too quickly, and probably with a little contempt for the members of the Government, that this is not the right we are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u306	We shall resume consideration of the amendments to delete Article 6, in accordance with our practice, which also deserve to be respected. It is, moreover, often their respect that determines the serenity of parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u307	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u308	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u309	[[Patrick Hetzel applauds]] Minister, I am like all human beings: I can be wrong. But you can't blame me for not working and not being there. The comments you made earlier on me are unacceptable to a minister. That's a first point. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Secondly, with regard to human resources management in prefectures, I said that the offices of the associations were, at least, not particularly privileged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u310	That's not what you said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u311	You've called the officials into question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u312	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I'm telling you! Do an investigation, and you'll see! I can tell you that in my department, when an office manager is sick, it's in the association office!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that only Mr de Courson has the floor. I would be happy if we respected the few points in the Rules of Procedure that allow us to have calm debates on important issues. Only Mr de Courson has the floor for his personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u314	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Does abusive proselytism, which is covered by the preliminary draft contract, fall within the scope of the regulation or the law? You have still not answered this question, nor have you specified how you would control the abuse of proselytism! That's where the problem lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u315	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1581.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u316	This is an opportunity for me to give the opinion of the La France group insoubted on Article 6, on which we have not yet spoken. Many of the criticisms we are making have been raised, in particular by our friends and colleagues in the Communist Group, but I would like to mention others. First, let us remember that during our fifty-five hours of hearings, Minister Jacqueline Gourault explained to us that in the vast majority of cases, there were no problems with the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u317	That's what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u318	Either: we are discussing a subject on which you consider that in the vast majority of cases there is no problem. Secondly, dear rapporteur-general, I generally appreciate you for the accuracy of your remarks, but I must admit that since the beginning of the examination of this text, it is sometimes difficult to understand exactly what you are talking about – I quote you in particular because you spoke earlier, but you are not the only one in this case. What are the subsidized associations in which unacceptable things are currently going to happen and in which the public authorities and municipalities would be powerless to act or abolish subsidies? What are they? I do not dispute that there may be problems, but you have never mentioned to us any association in which scandalous things would happen and against which you would be powerless. Perhaps scandalous things are happening, but in this case sanctions exist. Recently, an association has even been dissolved; the legislative tools existed well to do so. What justifies the need for other tools to intervene? [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The minister referred earlier to a poll according to which the French would be in favour of the Republican contract of engagement. I'm sorry, but if we ask the French if they want the associations to respect the laws of the Republic, they answer yes! They're good people, in good faith! That's not the point, it's just a point of discussion. The real question is, what's the point of the article we're looking at? What will he bring again? I know your systematic answer to the questions we ask about this: you will tell me that I am in denial and that I see nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u319	I didn't say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u320	I'm sorry, but I'm in reality! Show me the problems! Every time I asked the prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis, he replied that there were none!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u321	There's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u322	Indeed, there is nothing. There has even been an incident in connection with the notion of republican deficiency, which we discussed during the examination of a previous article. It is on this subject that I asked you yesterday, minister: in a city in the department, an elected one would have deleted the books written by Jewish authors. This is totally wrong, but it never happened! Yet you talked about it in an interview.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u323	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u324	It never existed! The debate requires precision. But from the beginning, you've missed it! I see Mr. de Rugy dodeliner from the head. It is possible that a subsidized association can take advantage of school support sessions to make religious proselytism – but in this case, let's intervene! The law exists! My colleague Bernalicis told me about the case, which he knows well, of an association that has just been sanctioned for publishing a support making religious proselytism...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u325	Worse than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u326	...with, if I understand correctly, the support of the ministry. She was sanctioned, her grant was withdrawn! Do not pretend that we are disarmed to give you the beautiful role of those who finally act in front of those who used to do nothing! That's not right! [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I would then like to raise an argument which my colleague Bernalicis has made to me: that of firmness in the face of subsidized associations when you do nothing but do nothing when it comes to companies which have received public aid and which are licencing! We don't ask them to pay back! As always, you are very strong against the small and so weak in front of the big! We would like you to show the same firmness to recover public money when a large group dismisses!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u327	It's true that Salafists are very fragile!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u328	Thousands of redundancies are causing much more damage in a region than we are today. But now you're not here! Let me turn to the arguments that have just been put forward by our colleague from Courson, whom I had already mentioned on the occasion of my first speech. We are now aware of a draft – and not the final text, which is rather embarrassing – of what the Republican contract of engagement could be. Mr. de Courson told you: we're still thinking and we wonder who will judge proselytism as abusive or not! You open the door to interpretation and subjectivity, which will allow all the confused situations and grey areas that you sometimes describe to continue. You're not settling anything. You have said several times, Mrs Schiappa, that it is a matter of reaffirming secularism, and you have taken an example of what is being done in Montpellier. So I find it amusing that the Republican contract you are proposing does not contain the word secularism! He's not in it! It is also a difference with Montpellier's example: Mr Delafosse mentions the word secularism in seven chapter heads – and each time to reinforce it. All this is pretty stingy. An association that you know well, the Free Thought, reproaches Mr. Delafosse for writing in one of the articles of the charter that all subsidized associations must respect secularism, while for ten years the city of Montpellier has subsidized an association promoting Saint Roch and organizing religious pilgrimages. These people have absolutely the right to organize such a pilgrimage, but is it respect for secularism, and is it the role of a town hall, that to support them with public funds? The Free Thought, an association of people you will agree that they are reasonable, Ms. Schiappa, and no doubt more subtle than I do in your eyes, asked Mr. Delafosse for the subsidies to be reimbursed – and the answer was negative! You see it: the charter of the secularism of Mr Delafosse, which you boast, also has some bliss in terms of coherence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u329	He's under attack!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u330	Those who attack Mr. Delafosse do not do so to enforce the charter, but to blame him for the very existence of a charter. Citizens have the right to criticize a mayor when setting up something; This does not mean, however, that he is powerless. As you can see, we are facing amazing things. Would we accept as elected officials, on the pretext that there are some corrupt elected officials, because there are some, to sign a Republican Charter of Commitment? Many of you would retort, "What are you interfering with? The whole of my life proves that I respect the Republic! We could also ask the Government to respect a Republican Charter of Commitment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u331	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u332	... but you don't – while that's where you could start to set the example! Perhaps there are even more elected officials who do not respect the values of the Republic than associations! Yet many of you would find it vexing that they are being asked for such a commitment, since you consider yourself perfect by definition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u333	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u334	The associations, on the other hand, are suspected! All this creates a rather amazing atmosphere. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I conclude with a final argument that you can think of what you want, but that I present you in good faith, if I may say so. It concerns the last point of the contract of engagement: respect for the national anthem, the flag and the motto. Those who know me know that I am in love with the French Revolution, I am obviously defending "La Marseillaise", the flag and our motto invented by Maximilien Robespierre! But in our country there are artists, who are part of our heritage, who have violently criticized the national anthem: I am thinking of Renaud, Brassens, and how many others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u335	Gainsbourg!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u336	And Serge Gainsbourg! If a subsidized association broadcast one of their songs at a subsidized event...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u337	That would give the city council a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u338	You say it twists the stick, but it's being debated! You see, in any case, that we have the means to intervene! Is a subsidized association broadcasting Renaud's words – "La Marseillaise", even in reggae it has always made me disgust" – disrespectful of the national anthem? Big debate! Abbé Pierre said in 1992 with Charles Aznavour and many other artists that "La Marseillaise" contained words of hatred. For my part, I do not agree, but it is being discussed! A law now forbids contempt for the national anthem, but respect is something more complicated! French citizens may want to discuss these issues. It may even happen that the associations they form are subsidized. So all this remains extremely blurred! I understand that you want to attack those who make very violent statements. All right, but the writing of this last point opens up fields of interpretation. I am convinced that according to the mayors and the personality of the mayors, the reactions will not be the same. Some town halls will hunt down the subsidized neighbourhood association in which young people sing rap, of which it is well known that it contains words of social anger. This is the whole history of our country for centuries: popular songs sing social anger! Inspired by anarchism in the 19th century, these songs were often critical of the Republic. I will tell you, dear friends: all this is deeply French! It is deeply French to criticize the power and the President, as does Boris Vian's deserter! These songs exist! Should they be punished? We know very well what is going to happen, minister: in neighbourhoods where youth is of a certain origin, we will consider that his song of anger is antipatriotic, whereas about the songs of Georges Brassens, we will say that it is beautiful and great – and we will be right to say it! But it is not good to approach things like this. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – MM. Xavier Breton and Patrick Hetzel also applaud]] I will conclude by stressing that the Republican contract of engagement does not regulate anything, but creates a general feeling of suspicion. We currently have the means to act if associations disseminate xenophobic, racist, anti-republican or non-secular discourse. The law allows it. But there's a difference between acting and shaking. On the subject that concerns us, you do little, but you are agitating a lot. That is why we are against the Republican contract of engagement and call for the deletion of Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u339	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u340	Marie-George Buffet and I have already spoken on Article 6, and Alexis Corbière has just added arguments that we share. During the discussion on this article, I have not heard any argument that would convince us that we are wrong, or even any example that would allow us to understand what is the problem that you consider it necessary to resolve on the grounds that the existing legislation would not suffice. For us, this article constitutes a pleonasm, a tautology, in that it repeats things already affirmed, with the result the establishment of an atmosphere of general suspicion, weighing as a negative a priori on associations. As Charles de Courson said, there is no justification for the Republican commitment contract to be reserved for associations seeking grants...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u341	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u342	In fact, all associations must comply with the commitments contained in this contract. Of course, I am not asking for an extension of the scope of a device that does not suit me, but it seems to me that we are taking things backwards and emptying some of their meaning, in particular because of the formalism that you impose. Apart from the fact that it will not solve any of the problems you claim to be tackling, this formalism runs counter to the autonomy of the associations, the unbridled character that makes them rich, allows them to bring things to the Republic and to make life on a daily basis of forms of citizenship. On the other hand, the very imprecise nature of the wording that is proposed to us, despite the legal nature that you would like to give to your approach, may prevent certain associative approaches which nevertheless deserve to flourish. When reading this article, it may be feared that it will be an additional and unwarranted control tool, because if certain activities require specific control, it cannot be carried out as you propose. Finally, you state that the associations have returned to their opinion on the Republican contract of engagement. However, in a press release on Monday, 1 February, entitled "Republican principles: associations remain concerned", we can say on the contrary that "the association movement calls on the deputies to hear the concerns of the world of associations...". The High Council for Associative Life had given an opinion in the same direction, and to my knowledge it did not return to its original position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u343	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u344	For all these reasons, we call on you to address things differently, and we will make proposals to that effect in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u345	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2465.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u346	If we are against Article 6 and wish to delete it, it is first of all because it constitutes an infringement of freedom of association, as the High Council for Associative Life and, more recently, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights have pointed out. Secondly, within the framework of the principle of the free administration of the communities, a large number of local authorities have already concluded charters of engagement republican and conditioned the allocation of grants or contributions in kind to respect the republican principles: Valérie Pécresse in Île-de-France and Éric Ciotti in the Alpes-Maritimes, to name but a few, have already put in place such charters. As you can see, there is no need for a unilateral contract – a concept that appears to be an oxymore. Finally, you do not condition the signing of this contract of republican commitment to compulsory training in republican principles, secularism and the prevention of radicalization. This will also be the subject of an amendment on my part if we do not obtain the deletion of Article 6. Let us not lose sight of the fact that, in principle, the original objective of this text is to combat political, radical and separatist Islam. By not naming things, you will once again lead to deprivation of liberty for all associations, and miss your target: it is not with totally inoperable paperwork that you will effectively fight Islamist separatism. Finally, let me say to the minister that in the counter-project drafted by the Republican Group, we do not propose secularism for associations at any time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u347	For the political parties!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u348	On this point, you are misinterpreting our proposal. For us, political parties must respect republican principles. They may be religiously inspired, but in no way should they advocate separatist measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u349	On identical amendments Nos 380, 499, 587, 651, 690, 992, 1581, 2019 and 2465, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République en marche and Libertés et territoires groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. If you agree, Minister, we will begin by asking for the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u350	That's right, Mr. President! Let's enforce the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u351	Mr Eric Poulliat, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter II of Title I, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u352	After these numerous interventions, I would like to recall, on behalf of the Special Committee, what was said during its work, and once again stress the essential role of associations in terms of social cohesion. They are the driving force behind republican values throughout the country, and there is no question that we should be sidelined by criticism that Article 6 could have the effect of discrediting associations a priori.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u353	They write it to us, and to you too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u354	In fact, I find it quite daring to make this criticism on behalf of the associations. Indeed, there are network heads, such as the Associative Movement, whom I know well and which I have auditioned, which issue opinions and raise concerns; but a concern is not an opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u355	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u356	In the course of the work of the special committee, the associations raised the question of the safeguarding of public order, an issue which we have amended to take account of their reservations; on the other hand, the concept of respect for public order is appropriate to them. The special commission heard many of the arguments of the network heads of the community movement and introduced into the text elements that would satisfy them. To claim that the associations would be opposed to the Republican contract of engagement is more a political argument than a reality. Many arguments have been put forward to explain how the Republican contract of engagement provided for in Article 6 would not meet the needs, and I will try to respond to a few – for lack of time, I will probably not repeat them all, which I apologize for in advance. Mr. de Courson indicated that the Council of State was questioning the concept of a contract. For my part, I believe that when a deliberative assembly decides to give public money to an association, it is entitled to expect a commitment in return. As for the fact that this undertaking is contractualised, it is justified by the fact that it allows for the refund of the sums paid if the undertaking is broken. That's the whole meaning of the Republican contract of engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u357	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u358	I'll explain this to you, if you let me talk. Earlier the issue of arbitrariness was raised, which I appreciated. At present, many local and regional authorities are setting up agreements prior to the payment of subsidies. Each of the communities expresses specific requirements in the convention it proposes, and if this option arises from the principle of the free administration of communities, it can be considered to be arbitrary, which associations sometimes complain about. They argue that cities, departments and regions all have different requirements and do not use the single CERFA form, preferring to use a specific document. The charters, whether those of the local authorities or the charter of reciprocal commitments, have no legal value – I know that the latter has been negotiated at length with the associations and that its content, of quality, must be preserved. This is why it is important to maintain the contractual dimension which, if the commitments entered into are not fulfilled, makes it possible to rely on the force of the law to demand the return of the subsidy. However, the contract of engagement does not remove the strength of the charter and what the associations do on the ground. It was also said that not all associations applied for grants. On this point, I would point out that a subsidy is not necessarily pecuniary, i.e. it does not always consist in the payment of a sum in euro ringing and stumbling, but can also take the form of material aid, for example the rental of a room. As a result, associations that strictly ask for no subsidies, neither in cash nor in kind, are quite rare. They nevertheless exist and, for them, the rest of the text is intended to apply in all its consistency – I am thinking in particular of Articles 7 and 8, which provide for provisions on authorisation and dissolution respectively. Thus, this text does give us the means to impose on an association to respect the principles of the Republican contract of engagement, even if it does not ask for any subsidy. Finally, I wanted to stress that this contract is based on trust. Local authorities and elected representatives are aware of the social fabric and associations of their territory. For their part, the associations are proud to be Republicans, and do not necessarily see a lack of confidence in this demand for them: they also see it as a means of protection, especially because some have difficulty acting on the ground, they may be victims of community pressure or separatist enterrism. The contract of engagement strengthens the trust between the public authority and the associations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The committee will therefore be opposed to all the amendments aimed at deleting Article 6, especially since by deleting this Article we would remain where we are and would not solve any problems. In doing so, we would abandon to their fate the associations and local elected representatives who have to face separatism on a daily basis, leaving them alone in front of him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u360	Some authors of the first deletion amendments that were defended argued on the topic of consultation. I recall that this consultation started just after the speech of the Walls of the President of the Republic. Gérald Darmanin and I began by receiving several representatives from associations in the Ministry of the Interior, but there were also two parallel consultations, one with the associations, in which my colleague Sarah El Haïry was associated, the other with the elected representatives, in which Jacqueline Gourault, responsible for territorial communities and relations with the communities, took part. These consultations are still under way, and we are using the legislative path of the bill to pursue them, according to a timetable that has been made public. In these circumstances, it can hardly be argued that there has been no consultation – these have already allowed for changes in the text. Some claimed that the Republican contract of engagement would not have been passed on to the national representative. We have kept the commitment we made with the Minister of the Interior to address it, before the public debate, to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and to the rapporteurs of the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u361	What about the unregistered?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u362	I therefore invite all those who would like to know about it to come closer to their group presidents, who have received it well – two press articles detailing the content after it was sent to them. Mr Le Fur, you mentioned the Côtes d'Armor Education League. For our part, we have received the national representatives of this association, who have given us a speech that is singularly different from the one you are reporting,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u363	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u364	...marked by a call for co-construction and a willingness to work together. Consultations continued with the associations in a very constructive manner, in a spirit of partnership. Associations are not our adversaries: they are the partners of the state, especially the major historical associations, which do an important job: it is with them that we move forward. Mr de Courson, you made a bit of a mockery of the fact that we wanted to mention freedom of conscience in the contract of engagement, stressing that no one was against freedom of conscience. Let me very respectfully oppose this allegation: of course there are people who oppose freedom of conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u365	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u366	We would not be confronted with sectarian drifts, indoctrination and radical Islamism if everyone respected the freedom of conscience of the other, their ability to freely practice and change their religion, far from any act of abusive proselytism. Yes, it is essential to remember that every member of an association must enjoy his or her full freedom of conscience and must not be forced to practise a religion, as is the case in some sports associations which oblige their members to pray. You also pointed out that women were free to organize. I confirm that there is nothing to say that they are not free to do so, but remember the debate we have had in committee on the difference between gender equality, gender equality and gender equality, which we will have the opportunity to discuss again in the future. "The principles of the Republic are not being negotiated," you said again, Monsieur de Courson. We fully agree, and that is the reason for this contract. I wonder, however, because right after that, you sang the praises of the 2014 charter, saying, "At least it was negotiated." If the principles of the Republic are not negotiated, why want to negotiate? Let me move on with this contradiction. Mr Corbière, you stressed that it was already possible to put an end to the subsidies paid to an association. That is true, they are discretionary and likely to be cut off if there is no contract of engagement over several years. But the Republican contract of engagement allows not only to remove them, but also to recover them. You have asked for examples: many examples have been mentioned during the debates in the Special Committee as well as by your colleagues in session. Several local authorities expressed regret at the impossibility of being reimbursed for the subsidies they had paid to associations. Eric Piolle, the mayor of Grenoble, publicly deplored the fact that the procedure to recover the sums that his city had wrongly granted to the Collective against Islamophobia in France...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u367	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u368	... would probably be long and uncertain as to its outcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u369	Nevertheless, it is possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u370	On the other hand, I would like to go back to two personal references that you have made, which perhaps could not be seen as such by all the Members present. You have repeatedly mentioned Free Thought, adding that I knew it very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u371	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u372	Why did you do it? Because the president of the Institute of Research and Studies of Free Thought, an excellent historian specializing in the French Revolution, secularism and babouvism, is my father, Jean-Marc Schiappa.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u373	It's all to your honor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u374	It's all to my honor: I love my father.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u375	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u376	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You love him too, it's perfect! I'll tell him, he'll be delighted. But in 2021, Mr. Corbière, girls don't have to think like their father! My father is not only an excellent historian, but also an excellent feminist, who would never use patriarchal arguments or authority to force one of his daughters to think like him. I know the meaning of the allusion you made!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u377	I didn't say that! That's not what I said, Marlene Schiappa! This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u378	I hear you and you know it, Alexis Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u379	Mr Corbière, only the Deputy Minister has the floor. You will have the opportunity to speak in a few moments, if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u380	It's not elegant! That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u381	It is you who are inelegant with these veiled allusions to my father! I wanted to put things on the table so everyone could understand them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u382	The minister implies that I am a macho! Call to order, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u383	Mr. Corbière, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u384	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Besides, you don't let women talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u385	I would like us to have calm debates on these important issues, without falling into the ease of provocation, on either side. It is my responsibility as President and I want to exercise it here before you. Minister, give us the Government's opinion on these deletion amendments – and if you wish, Mr Corbière, to make a point of order, as you have the opportunity, I invite you to ask for the floor when the minister has finished speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u386	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I thank Mr Corbière for remembering my first name, which is Marlène and not Machine. These details of my father being brought in, we can leave him where he is. I also love Serge Gainsbourg or Renaud, but I don't remember that they asked for public subsidies to produce the beautiful songs that are theirs, including their versions of "La Marseillaise". Since you are referring to respect for republican symbols, I would like to move on from the remarks made by your colleague Danièle Obono, who did not show this by saying about "La Marseillaise" and the tricolor flag, "it is a completely punctured republican catechism". Finally, turning to the Members of the LR Group, I will observe that there are contradictions between their different positions. Mr Ciotti's amendment goes exactly the opposite of what Mr Ravier has just told us in terms of commitment. Together with Gérald Darmanin, we have on several occasions received representatives of the Association of Mayors of France, the AMF. The members of his bureau and his own president, Mr Baroin, told us how much the elected officials on the ground needed this Republican contract of engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u387	Of course! They even told us, "Go ahead! "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u388	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Why? Because courageous elected officials, struggling for secularism, for the respect of republican principles, need to be supported; Because elected representatives are subject to Community pressure, you know that, and they can now explain that they are obliged by law to have these contracts signed. Ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, therefore, listen to the members of your party and do not let the elected ones down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u389	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u390	I am basing myself on Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. Madam Deputy Minister, I will speak without passion, because you know that I respect you. Things need to be clear, because we are talking about people we both know. I never implied...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u391	[[Smile]] If we're interrupting, we have to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u392	It is a matter of substance, because the defence of women is an important fight which, a few days ago, has taken on a particular resonance in this House, which has moved us all, I believe. And I thank those of our colleagues in the LaREM group who came to see Mathilde Panot to tell him that there were things that were not happening. From this point of view, there has been no block logic and it is happy. I never implied that you thought like historian Jean-Marc Schiappa. From a certain point of view, if I were naughty, I would almost say I regret it, because I agree with him but not with you. I repeat, not in private or in public, I did not imply that you shared the views of this man who turns out to be your father...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u393	And our friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u394	...and our comrade. He was one of the people who contributed to my political formation in my youth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u395	[[Smile]] We don't congratulate him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u396	...which I don't regret. The only thing I have said is that you have received the representatives of the Free Thought and that you, together with Mr. de Rugy and others, have ensured that the National Federation of Free Thought is heard by the Special Committee – and other secular associations have reported that it has been treated in a special way. For many reasons, it is an association that you know well. I recalled that it is she who opposes the charter on secularism of the Mayor of Montpellier, Mr Delafosse. My criticisms are about something else. When we disagree with you, minister, we are not necessarily a macho or an anti-republican. But you often use, unlike the minister of the interior – but I'm probably wrong to make that difference since he's a man and you're a woman – arguments that are too disrespectful. We have the right to be in radical disagreement with what we say...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u397	Mr. Corbière...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u398	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Xavier Breton also applauds]] ... but frankly, what I said earlier was nothing macho, it's the opposite: I showed my respect for your ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u399	Even as part of the scheduled time, the point of order is two minutes, Mr Corbière. Mr Le Fur has another point of order. On what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u400	On the basis of Rule 90 of our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Mr President, first of all, I wanted to congratulate you on your excellent presidency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u401	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u402	Don't add any more, Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u403	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Even if I don't pretend to be the arbiter of elegance, I know a little about the profession, and I wanted to tell you: it will be another tribute, but it won't be too much tribute. Madam Deputy Minister, thank you for responding to many of the arguments that we have put forward. It's a minister's job, you're doing it, and that's very good. There is, however, one thing you did not return to: veterans' associations and patriotic associations in general. They are composed of people who fought, some time ago, for their country, especially in Algeria, beyond the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u404	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u405	[[Patrick Hetzel applauds]] You will ask them to sign the same Republican contract of engagement as the others, which they will consider scandalous! Can you give us any answers on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u406	Mr Le Fur, despite the pleasant remarks you made to me, I would remind you that a point of order must be a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u407	Many speakers asked to speak on the deletion amendments. Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u408	To hear the discussions on Article 6, I think that there is either a complete misunderstanding of what the Republican contract of engagement is, or of political bad faith, which I would not dare to believe in on such an important issue as associative life in our country. We know how essential it is, especially in rural areas like mine, which has the largest number of associations per capita. This contract of republican commitment has nothing to do with freedom of association: associations can be established and develop quite normally. We simply want them to respect a certain framework when they receive public money. I don't understand Mr. Le Fur's opposition. Some associations – we have the same ones in mind, I think – are based on the systematic use of illegal methods of action, including intrusion into farms. In the face of them, republican principles must be reaffirmed. No public subsidy should be paid to such associations which do not comply with the law and which attack persons solely by virtue of the fact that they practise a particular profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u409	But there are some who touch it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u410	This Republican contract is fully in line with what Mr Le Fur is defending. In committee, I had proposed to put an end – which, I understood, implied too complex operations – to the defiscalization of donations to recognized associations of public utility that did not respect the republican framework and republican principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u411	I had tabled the same amendment, and I was denied it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u412	Let us also think of associations such as Identity Generation, which have made their trading fund illegal shares. I do not find it illogical that any public money, from any community, goes to such associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u413	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u414	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let us all vote for Article 6: All associations requesting public subsidies must respect the Republican framework; If they do not respect it, they must not be able to ask for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u415	The framework of the Republic is the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u416	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u417	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I will give some concrete examples to make it clear what we are voting for. Would an environmental association that, in protest against nuclear power, would follow the grids of a power plant violate republican principles? Would an association defending the right to housing occupying vacant property in order to denounce the lack of housing violate the laws of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u418	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u419	[["No! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Would an LGBT association – lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender – that would defend pregnancy for others, a device rejected and considered an attack on human dignity, contravene republican principles? Did Mrs El Haïry, by carrying out an inspection against the federation of social centres, which are, in certain neighbourhoods, what remains of popular education, consider that there was a form of infringement of republican principles? [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] In this Chamber I would like to obtain clarification on the intention of the legislator, so that those who will have to apply this law – which will not be simple from the point of view of effectiveness – will be informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u420	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u421	We are not going to repeat the debate on the concept of freedom of association or on the Republic. I would like to go back to an argument made by the Minister of the Interior, who denounced an alleged contradiction because we tabled and adopted an amendment to introduce an oath for certain public officials – police, gendarmerie and prison staff – and our colleague Eric Diard defended a broader amendment concerning all public officials. The Minister considers that there is a contradiction between asking public officials to comply with the laws of the Republic on the one hand and not wanting to comply with the laws of the Republic on the other. This argument is very revealing! A public official carries out a voluntary procedure; It does indeed serve a political regime, a republic, and it is normal for it to express it through membership. An association, on the other hand, does not serve the Republic:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u422	But she's getting subsidies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u423	... it presents projects that only have to be verified that they are not anti-republican. We do not have to demand from an association that wishes to obtain a grant that it be republican. That's the difference! You're asking the associations to be Republicans, while we're just asking them not to be anti-republicans. It is a fundamental concept that inspires all the debates. The same applies to education: you want education to be republican, we want it not to be anti-republican. You want to impose the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u424	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u425	You understand that, doing this, you will generate more and more reactions...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u426	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u427	... such as those that have resulted in social movements for several months. And the phenomenon will grow, because your authoritarian conception of the Republic, which intends to impose itself from top to bottom, leads to resistance. You do not touch the real danger for our country that is radical and political Islam,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u428	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u429	...and at the same time, you point the finger at citizens, associations, families who want to live peacefully, who commit themselves to the way they want it, and to whom we do not have to impose the Republic. Again, we want to fight those who are outside the law, but we do not consider that we have to impose on everyone the right to a patent of republicanism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u430	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u431	Of course, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will not vote for these deletion amendments. We all certainly have a long associative experience, through associations that we have been able to form. Creating an association is not insignificant: it requires an entire process, the deposit of statutes... When you were Minister of Youth and Sports, Mrs Buffet, you had also formulated requirements with regard to sports associations, which were members of federations, which had to have conformed statutes and consequently update them. I helped many associations do this, and it was not always easy. It had created a bit of emotion in the associative world at the time. Today we are talking about a Republican contract of engagement. In fact, I absolutely disagree with Mr. de Courson: it is a contract between a community, the administrative authority, and an association that seeks a grant and must meet certain conditions. This is indeed a contractual approach...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u432	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u433	...and not a unilateral commitment. The contract has commitment value. But let's get back to the bottom of the Republican engagement contract. I have examined the outline of the proposal. Of course, a preamble should be added referring to Article 6, which amends Article 10 of the Law of 12 April 2000 on the rights of citizens in their relations with administrations. This preamble will engage the signatory community and association and outline the provisions that we are going to adopt. In doing so, the association will make several commitments. [[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] This is a good step and the amendment adopted by the rapporteur in committee concerning the obligation of the association to inform its members of this republican commitment seems to me to be a step in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I want to say, "The beautiful business! Frankly, we have here a beautiful educational tool that will allow the whole world of associations to enforce certain rules, including the Republican commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u434	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u435	I find that we do not talk much about the concept of beneficiaries, that is, those who benefit from the activity of an association, even though it seems to me to be very important. And here we are talking about associations that receive public money, the taxpayer's money. However, when an association receives public money, it is normal for it to have additional duties; Above all, it must address all citizens without discrimination. One can accept that an association that does not receive public funding should defend all forms of causes, while respecting freedom of expression. But when it is financed by the French taxpayer, it must include all French people, regardless of their gender, whatever their beliefs, and promote this notion of inclusion: all citizens must be able to benefit from it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I note that some of you fear that associations, because they are denominational or otherwise inspired, will no longer be able to receive public money. But not at all! Many denominational-inspired associations are addressed to any beneficiary, no matter, I repeat, his belief, his type... That is why we must defend this article and this contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u436	Mrs. Florence Granjus has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u437	First of all, I want to acknowledge the admirable work of the associations and their dedication, especially in this period of health crisis. Yes, associations benefit from a simple, relatively flexible legal framework. But we must not forget that 61% of them receive public subsidies – 7 billion euros, 7 billion public dollars, the taxpayers' money. However, almost all the regional chambers of accounts stress the need for better harmonisation, supervision and control of subsidies to associations. Of course, and this has been stressed, a tool already exists: the charter of reciprocal commitments. The question was raised by Mr. de Courson: why don't we make it a legislative tool? But for this to happen, this tool would have to be effective! Is this charter effective? Is it used by all communities? No. Have some departments created their own charter? Yes. That is why I will vote against these deletion amendments. I fully subscribe to the establishment of a Republican contract of engagement, especially since it will cover republican values which, today, are only partially taken into account by the charter of reciprocal commitments. Thus, respect for the dignity of the human person will be better taken into account. [[Mr. Thomas Rudigoz applauds]] The implementation of a tool is good, but provided it is effective and efficient. I would like to draw your attention to this point, Madam Minister, Minister: there is a need for easier operational implementation; Care must be taken not to increase the tasks of associations and their officials, especially at a time when subsidies are shrinking and the activities of associations are increasing. I'm counting on your vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u438	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u439	Our legal system is that of individual responsibility. But you are creating a system of collective responsibility. The associations have several tens, several hundred, sometimes several thousand participants. There may be punitive failures on the part of some members of an association. In this case, the individuals concerned must be prosecuted. But why take collective responsibility? Why deprive an association that feuds thousands of young people, on the pretext that some would have made mistakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u440	But no, that's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u441	We are not in a system of collective responsibility, but in a system of individual responsibility; That's all we have to do. [["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, you know that I am in close contact with many associations that are fighting for the promotion of regional languages, in Brittany of course, but also in other regions. I can tell you that these associations are very worried. Already some people, in the rectorates in particular, fight them more or less discreetly; It must be taken into account. These associations are not reassured by your text, Minister. Once again, he's pounding too wide: he's going to hit a lot of honest people, who do things out of passion and who risk being the victims of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u442	Unless they're proselytizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u443	The Minister has the floor. I would like to point out that it is the practice of this House that the sitting should be adjourned at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u444	I'll try to keep the usage, which is as important as writing. We can see that Article 6 creates debates in society, and it is an extremely strong measure defended by the deputy minister Marlène Schiappa – to whom I return the paternity, if it allows me this expression – who has worked very hard, since the beginning of the drafting of this text, in favour of Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u445	Motherhood!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u446	[[Smile]] Motherhood, fatherhood, I don't want to gender the point... let's say she gave birth to article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u447	It's the father talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u448	I am not going to go into the definition of a family, Mrs Genevard: it would lead us far enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u449	Recomposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u450	The recomposed families are sometimes the happiest, Mr. President. I wanted to say to Mr Le Fur and to the speakers of the Republicans Group that by reflecting on it, after listening to Messrs. Breton and Le Fur, I note that there may be no inconsistency in their positions. On the other hand, there are very large differences of opinion within your group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u451	It's an obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u452	No, but that's an important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u453	What about the La République group on the move?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u454	Everyone was able to see it again this morning in the press,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u455	Change your registry. It's small!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u456	...which clearly shows that the point of attack of saying that the majority would not be comfortable, in the end, is rather on your side. This is obvious, and we will see this especially when we address the issue of education or worship. Note one very interesting point, Mrs Genevard: Mr Le Fur blames us for not responding to his argument concerning veterans' associations, but Mr Ciotti's amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u457	Mr. Ciotti's not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u458	Mr Ciotti works, and has demonstrated that he is a party to the text; he spoke for a while, and we answered him. He proposed that the provisions of Article 6 should apply to associations governed by the Law of 1 July 1901 on the contract of association, and also to cultural associations. He therefore wished to generalize these provisions to all associations in the 1901 Act, not just those which received a subsidy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u459	He wants to take away all freedoms!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u460	[[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Ciotti, however, is not a liberticide; No one could think such a thing! In the same parliamentary group, therefore, some argue that Article 6 is absolutely liberbid, while others believe that it must be extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u461	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u462	In the same group, some argue that denominational associations should not be affected at all, when others – as Mrs Genevard did in a special commission – believe that it is essential to introduce the word "secularity" into the contract of engagement. In the same party, some local elected representatives – Mr.Baroin, Mrs.Pécresse, Mr. Bertrand, or Mr.Mayor d'Orléans – urge us to apply absolutely the contract of engagement, which is a legal contract, when others feel that it is not necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u463	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u464	So join to participate in their debates, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u465	For me, the word "Republic" is a fine word, Mr. Le Fur, Mr. Breton. I wish to be able to impose the Republic, because I am a Republican elected, in the common sense of the word – moreover, in a party called The Republicans, imposing the Republic should not hit your conscience! There is no authority to that. Be aware, Mr. Breton, that one of the articles of the 1901 Act has never been amended by the elected representatives of the Republic; This is Article 3, which I read to you: "Any association based on a cause or with a view to an unlawful object, contrary to the laws [understood, the laws of the Republic], to morals, or which is intended to undermine the integrity of the national territory and the republican form of government, is null and void. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u466	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u467	It's all written already!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u468	No, and I'm coming. Since 1901, the requirement to respect the republican form applies when associations declare themselves in prefecture. When an association submits its statutes, the prefect may inform the judicial judge that its object is unlawful, contrary to republican form, morality or law. This check is only valid at the time of the declaration, and not during the long life of the association: that is why Article 6 is useful, Mr Mélenchon, Mr Vallaud. An association may also have an object in accordance with section 3 of the 1901 Act, but it may have contrary practices. However, there is no provision for the subsidies that she has received – as the Minister Delegate explained very well, even the decision of the Council of State does not make it possible to demand reimbursement of the subsidies. Finally, an association can change: it may have been created in 1903 or 1905 for a certain cause, and then transform itself according to the renewals of its office or the evolution of its activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u469	She has to declare it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u470	I say this to Mr Breton and Mr Le Fur: we must not be ashamed of the republican provisions which are those of the great republican law of 1901. That is quite contrary to what you mentioned. We must not be ashamed to say that Article 6 is courageous. For once, I agree with Mr. Ciotti rather than with you, Mr. Breton and Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u471	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 380, 499, 587, 651, 690, 992, 1581, 2019 and 2465.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u472	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 105 Number of votes cast 102 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 24 Against 78
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u473	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-05-O1153.u474	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the draft law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
