ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects (No. 3875, 3995).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u3	After some 100 hours of debate and the discussion of 3850 amendments in committee, we are here today to discuss more than 7200 amendments. As a result of a long process of work, this bill has enabled 150 citizens, grouped into the Citizen's Climate Convention (CCC), to formulate a set of proposals today at the heart of the bill we are studying. We thank them once again for the time and energy they have devoted to this co-construction through an unprecedented exercise of participatory and deliberative democracy. This text is a collective success of which we can be proud and, as some say, the proposals made here are far from below the expectations of the members of the Convention and are a complement to those that have already been implemented. Beyond form, the main objective of this text is to answer the following question: how can greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions be reduced by at least 40% by 2030 in a spirit of social justice? Every word is important. The urgency first: 2030 is tomorrow, but above all, the central issue that guides the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats throughout the debates is that of social justice. We need to make ecological transition an opportunity for all. Ecology should not be seen as a source of additional expenditure, especially for the most modest households, but rather as a source of savings, income and new opportunities. Like our commitment to the environment since the beginning of the legislature, our group wants to show ambition to step up the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions while protecting employment and ensuring the social acceptability of the measures taken. Beyond the climate emergency imposed on us, we are convinced that the ecological transition is a real economic opportunity for France. Far from the ecology of incantations, we are fervent supporters of an ecology of pragmatic and financially sustainable solutions. To this end, we propose innovative arrangements for a proactive transition in each territory. Indeed, the decentralization of our public environmental policies is a priority for us. Each territory must have the means to be involved in this transition. With this bill, France once again proves its ambition to combat climate change. Beyond our territories, it is at European and international level that the pursuit of these commitments will be essential. If France cannot claim to be the only one to succeed in this ecological transition, it can and must be the lead on many subjects. With this text, we provide the tools that will make it possible to amplify the collective momentum towards a sustainable model. We don't leave a white leaf. Since 2017, unprecedented efforts have been made to support aid against global warming. Many of the provisions in this bill are intended to strengthen or accelerate recently passed measures. This is the case, for example, of the environmental signs voted in the Act on the fight against waste and the circular economy, known as AGEC law, of the relay car parks voted in the Act on the orientation of mobility (LOM), of the meals served in the collective restoration voted in the Act on the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural and food sector, known as the Act on the regulation of rents provided for in the Act on the evolution of housing, planning and territory (ÉLAN). This bill is therefore a further development of our ambitions. We have achieved good progress in committee, which we would like to see continued in committee. I am thinking in particular of strengthening the promotion of socially and environmentally responsible public procurement, of better support for intermodality or of accelerating the introduction of environmental measures in collective restoration. In the same vein, we wish to continue the work in accordance with the work done by the Citizens' Convention for the Climate by going as far as possible whenever we can. It is with this spirit that our group will be at the meeting of each of the themes of this bill. First of all, in terms of how we consume, we stress the progress proposed in this text, to which we wish to make further measures. We will therefore support the ban on single-use packaging, which is particularly dangerous for natural environments. With this in mind, we will propose a ban from 2025 on the placing on the market of packaging with a recycling rate of less than 50%. We will defend the inclusion in the law of the prohibition of eco-money laundering: in other words, we want to prohibit false advertisements claiming to offer a carbon neutral good or service, while no studies have shown this. Minimizing the environmental impact of a product means lying to consumers and thus preventing free and informed choices. The bill also proposes a wide range of measures to decarbonize our way of producing and working. We will continue in session the work done in committee, proposing that the criteria of repairability and sustainability be taken into account in public procurement by 2025. In addition, we support the idea that companies should submit an integrated performance statement, bringing together environmental and financial information. Such a shift from the non-financial performance statement to an integrated performance statement will allow both transparency on the environmental costs incurred by companies over their past fiscal years and information on the environmental costs budgeted for future fiscal years. As the decentralization of public policies is in our DNA, we once again support the appropriation of these many objectives by local and regional authorities, without which the ecological transition will remain a vain ambition. Thus, we consider it essential to integrate our low-carbon strategy objectives at the local level, but also to make a strong commitment to combat soil artificialisation on a voluntary basis. As such, we want to strengthen the capacity of local authorities to plan for the development of logistics warehouses by taking into account their potential nuisance upstream. In the same vein, we want to create more service tools for local communities to enable better ownership of the challenges of the transition. On the transport side, while the text provides for measures allowing the regions to introduce contributions on the movement of road freight vehicles, we want the mayor's powers to be strengthened in the area of traffic police, in order to better regulate the transit of heavy goods vehicles which prefer to cross our towns and villages rather than using the existing bypass routes, all to save a few minutes or euros at the cost of heavy noise and air pollution for the residents who are suffering this traffic. One of the emblematic advances of this bill is undoubtedly that relating to the energy renovation of buildings. While many tools have been made available to the French to renovate their housing, the lack of clarity and ease of approach has not allowed the desired collective momentum. If we are to help each and every player in the sector in its transition, it seems essential to us to include, from now on, in the law, a first step of prohibition from 2025 for the less efficient thermal colanders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u4	The MPs on the move are not awake!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u5	In addition, we must make the energy audit of housing mandatory and ensure that owners are accompanied, from the beginning to the end of the process, with particular attention for the most modest. In this sense, we would like to highlight various proposals from the Sichel report calling for a general and compulsory accompaniment facilitated by the creation of a single interlocutor of the first call for the masterwork of the works.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u6	The text is not of interest to Members On?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u7	Secondly, the measures related to our diet proposed in the bill are in the right direction. In particular, we will ensure that local production is always valued in our collective restorations. We will support several alternatives to the taxes on nitrogen fertilizers proposed by the Convention. It is essential to pursue a positive and responsible agricultural transition, with the support of French farmers. Finally, our group welcomes the strengthening of the judicial protection of the environment proposed in this text. It is essential to put an end to certain practices and to express clearly the ambition that no one enjoys impunity when it destroys the environment. That is why we will support the rapporteur's work along these lines. Our group calls for the creation of a Title VII on climate assessment of laws. While the introduction of transitional measures in law is essential, it is essential, in a second stage, to be able to assess their impact. Only 3% of the articles of law are assessed from an environmental point of view. Our colleague Erwan Balanant has been working for a long time on this issue, supported by all the Members of the Group, in order to make real progress in this area. We therefore pursue the objective of the Citizens' Climate Convention to strengthen the assessment and monitoring of public environmental policies by proposing four new provisions, including the creation of an observatory of actions and commitments by local authorities and the establishment of a roadmap for each player in the most greenhouse gas emitting sectors. [[Applause on the issues of the groupsDemetAgirens–Mr Jean-RenéCazeneuve, rapporteur-general of the special committee,applausealso]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, the state of mind in which our group is discussing this text, with an ambition: to respond to the climate emergency in order to preserve our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u8	Get the MPs on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u9	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u10	For years, first as a peasant and then as a local elected member of Parliament, I have worked on the issue of land sharing. But it was not until last year that I discovered that what we had observed in our territory was almost universal truth. Wherever the land is shared, there is a form of social prosperity as well as a form of ecological prosperity. On the other hand, wherever it is taken over, there is an impoverishment of the soil and a poverty of society that goes as far as degraded democratic forms – there are systems that are both authoritarian and ultraliberal. This rule around the earth has made me reflect, in history, on what the sharers were in the post-war period, those who founded the epic of modern agriculture today. The more ecology I think, then I live ecology, like all of you with my brain, with my heart, with my guts, the more socialist I feel...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u11	Ah, it's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u12	...and the more I feel shared. I can't imagine that one can be an environmentalist without being shared, and I even think that this is certainly the promise of the promised land of the left in its great tradition of the cooperative foundation, of the welfare state,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u13	It's called preemption!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u14	... local, national and international regulations. In the foundation of Europe, wherever we find the history of the left, we find the history of sharing and regulation. This phenomenon, however, is of staggering topicality with this concept of the planetary boundaries that inhabits us. Since there are limits, the old concepts of growth must disappear and we must share what is infinite, be able to give the taste of infinity and share the planetary limits. The time has come for a new sharing, that of a civilizational refoundation, of a major political refoundation. Does this law illustrate this requirement? I fear that no and one of my duties in the next three weeks will be to try to reveal, without hatred or sectarianism, with measure and friendship, what the High Council for Climate (HCC) and the Citizen Climate Convention have said, namely that this law has blind angles, that whole sections are left to abandon, while we need major levers today. There is a sort of hiatus between a form of self-satisfaction, self-congratulation put on the front of the stage in a special commission, as well as during the previous debates, a sort of immense satisfaction to be at the rendezvous of history, to evoke great figures of humanity, the great crossings, and the reality when, as we did in a special commission, we plunge into the examination of this bill. I have the impression that we can find a little bit of the EGALIM law or a little bit of the so-called AGEC law: during the quinquennium of François Hollande, we also knew small laws made up of little bits of things a little mixed, which it is complicated to manage. But, in the end, the sum is not equal to one whole at the level of the demands of the moment. My job will therefore be to reveal, as the High Council for Climate and the Citizen Climate Convention have done, the fact that we are not at the meeting. Of course, there is a projector effect, but at the time of the anthropocene, this law does not initiate the processes that should be implemented today. Here I would like to denounce the trick of the right – I should say the right – which is to justify prudence in the name of freedom, employment or spatial planning. We will try to denounce this trick in the course of the discussion, because it ignores what is fundamental: the question of justice and the question of the distribution of wealth. We will try – it will be our unique contribution to the debate – to outline other processes, which allow us to free ourselves from these enormous weights in the coming transition of individualism, liberalism and nationalism. The time has come for a new ecological citizenship, which it is up to the public authorities to strengthen. The time has come for solidarity sovereignty, which brings us up to the challenges of a terribly fragile and terribly interdependent world. We will have to invent this solidarity sovereignty that we will translate into processes that I will quickly describe. We will have to re-establish new regulations. I will give only three very simple examples. The first is, of course, the budgetary means that we will have to mobilise. Europe's 1000 billion tax evasion has become an absolute indecency at a time when we need to commit, even beyond the Green Deal and the Recovery Plan, the means of the transition to decarbonisation across Europe. We need to rethink the distribution of wealth between capital and labour and within the world of work. The study carried out at the request of the Socialist and Related Group has established that wage differentials, which continue to increase, are one of the causes of ecological disorders: do you know that the last two deciles consume twice as much carbon today as the first two – these are the figures of the Energy Transition Agency (ADEME)? Twice as much, namely 12 tonnes of carbon, while, according to the trajectory of the National Low Carbon Strategy (NSBC), each of us should eventually consume two tonnes of carbon. On a global scale, those in France who earn more than 12 times the SMIC – or the first decile of a company's wages – or 0.32% of the French, leave at the expense of the whole of humanity a totally unbearable carbon footprint: 1% of humanity consumes as much as the poorest 50%. This world is not alive. We need to reintroduce tax, social and wage regulations across our nation, across Europe, around the world. The second major issue is the conversion of trades. Millions of jobs will be at stake. Are we going to stop the ecological transition to every job destroyed? They would have been, anyway, a few years later as a result of the collapse of biodiversity or climate change? No, we have to face it. In this area, there is only one precedent: that of the end of the peasantry. At that time, the State invented new instruments, such as the National Centre for the Development of Agricultural Structures (CNASEA), a public policy, instruments to accompany millions of people to industry, services. Campaigns are reorganizing. A public transitional instrument is created. Without institutional changes, we will not be able to organize the transition of trades in sectors as exposed as the automotive or aeronautics industry, agrochemistry and so many others. We must accompany this transformation of the professions, live it as an epic towards a new world and not add up traumas as we do today. We need cross-mural legislation such as the text to recognize the crime of ecocide. In this regard, I am pleased that, after Germany, three weeks ago the Netherlands adopted the law on the duty of vigilance which we voted for exactly four years ago here, and which is in the process of becoming a European directive. We hope that we will be able to strengthen it by creating specialized judicial institutions to ensure the application of this law of the future for Europe and for the world. We need to improve our climate change governance. The High Council for Climate must become an independent authority, capable of guiding us, enlightening us and telling the truth to France, beyond communication. Finally, we need a common language, a new accounting system that allows every citizen to be part of this ecological transition, whether it is a consumer, a saver or simply someone who wants to rebalance the spheres of his life. The same must apply to a company that wants to be part of a CSR strategy – corporate social responsibility – genuine, or a changing territory that is embarking on the ecological transition. We need a language that connects. Madam Minister, you mentioned in your opening speech the encyclical Laudato Sì, by Pope Francis, who deals with our relationship to nature. I would like to quote in response its encyclical FratelliTutti, which is its social foothold. François' assessment of the policy of runoff is without appeal: he speaks of a poverty of thought, of a repetitive, impoverishing and infantilizing logic. He stated that private property should be subject to the use of all in the general interest. It says above all that human dignity must be placed at the centre of the economy if we are to live and protect our common home. The wisdom expressed in these texts and in other spiritual sources should prevent us from beating our stomach by nourishing the illusion of having reached the end of the way, whereas this text is only a very small step towards a necessary revolution of consciences. The cry of the earth and the cry of the poor are the same cry. The ecological transition is a humanism. It has a name, it's called "One Health." Today it must connect us, put us in motion, far beyond self-satisfaction; It must mobilize us and pay attention to the amendments that we will defend and which support these processes towards a new world. Fraternity is what I wanted to testify to today: a concrete fraternity in action which, ladies and gentlemen, is our life assurance. (Applause from the SOC and GDR groups. - Mr. DenisSommerapplauditedalso.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u15	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u16	Minister, a plethora of fairies have looked at the cradle of this bill. Unfortunately, these fairies not always certified...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u17	The Carabosse fairy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u18	... have not all made a gift, some preferring the strokes of a wand on their fingers to the strokes of a magic wand, forgetting that, as Charles Perrault said: "Good grace is the true gift of the fairies,/ Without it, we can do nothing, with it, we can do everything. Charles Perrault, who knew himself in fairy-like strokes, missed us in the parades this Sunday, but that's how it is: you still need a bad fairy in history, otherwise the children would be bored. But rest assured, Madam Minister, there are also some good fairies in this House who will look with benevolence and determination at the cradle of this project and the Action Together Group is part of it. The gift, or rather the talent we want to offer to this project, is the sense of reality, because we think – and it is not a trick! – that the best way to ensure that its effectiveness is at the rendezvous of its ambition is to be concerned and sensitive to the territorial, social and economic realities of our country, which will allow us to be at the rendezvous of France's commitments on climate and biodiversity; to the meeting also of one of the greatest challenges ever set for humanity, for, behind the transformation of our daily lives, what is being played out are neither more nor less than a new way of being alive and the definition of a new act together, be it economic, social or democratic. The Working Together Group will therefore be the reality principle of this bill. He will express this principle in three battles and a final demand that we will defend during the next two weeks of debate. Together they constitute for us the necessary guarantees of the effectiveness of this text and of its sustainability for the French and for the country. The first fight that our group will fight is an environmental realism: that of biodiversity. The climate must not hide the forest: in far too many respects, this project focuses solely on reducing greenhouse gases and combating global warming. But it is an error to dissociate climate and biodiversity, which must return to its full place in this bill, and first of all because it offers many ecosystem services, first and foremost the fight against warming. In this respect, it is one of the main players in the resilience that this text wants to promote. But that is not all: biodiversity is also rooted, as you know, in the reality of the French. Biodiversity is both the fight against air and soil pollution, the link with nature, the quality of food and housing. In short, biodiversity is a component of this positive and concrete ecology that we promised to the French. Finally, I would like to add that the nature and relationships we maintain with the living are a positive emotion that we must cultivate, because it is a powerful lever to support the French' commitment to ecological transformation. That is why our group will be mobilised in these debates against artificialisation when it translates into a densification of urban planning, without guarantees as to the presence of nature and the taking into account of biodiversity, and even so, as you know, that the citizens are demanding the return of nature to our cities. For the same reason, our group will propose that all peri-urban forests, which are the green lungs of our cities, enjoy by 2030 a status that protects them as they protect our health and quality of life. [[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, the ecological transition must work on both of its legs in a coordinated manner. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will, forgive us, keep reminding us throughout this debate that our national low-carbon strategy... Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u19	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u20	...that this strategy must be thought out and systematically combined with our national biodiversity strategy. I welcome the progress made by the Special Committee in this regard. [[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] Our group's second fight is a struggle for economic realism: that of compensation for companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u21	Please, ladies and gentlemen, respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u22	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, if we set very ambitious targets for businesses and local communities to reduce greenhouse gases and conserve biodiversity, we must in turn guarantee them the minimum freedom to invent new adaptation strategies. To do this, we need more effective clearing mechanisms, because it must be noted that existing clearing mechanisms, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, are neither sufficient, transparent nor effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u24	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u25	At the same time, we need to support more projects with positive impact on the territories. The current shortfall is partly due to the lack of financing and investment, while the improvement of compensation mechanisms would support the supply of projects while ensuring economic development and innovation. That is why the Action Together Group will continue to call for this text to make compensation one of the preferred levers for achieving greenhouse gas reduction targets and zero net artificialisation. We will also request an evaluation of all existing compensation schemes, particularly at the local level. Finally, we will propose an innovation in compensation: the experimentation of regional green markets, based on the territorialised model of the European carbon market. This would allow both the development of impact projects in the territories and the facilitation of compensation for businesses, as long as they adapt their economic model. The third fight that the Agir group will fight together is a struggle for social realism: it is the fight for housing renovation. As you know, Madam Minister, the ecological transition cannot be achieved without social justice and the most modest concerns. Climate change is already a cause of insecurity and poverty for many of our citizens, for example in the face of dramatic droughts or floods. Let us be careful that the efforts of adaptation and resilience that we call upon our fellow citizens do not, in turn, exacerbate this risk of precariousness. As you know, the Group of the European People's Party is very committed to the fight against poverty, for example through our proposal for a universal income that will guarantee to everyone dignity and freedom in a society of all risks, including climate change. That is why we will pay particular attention to ensuring that measures relating to the energy renewal of housing do not pose a risk of insecurity for the most modest. We absolutely must provide them with guarantees. Many of them are concerned and the complexity of current aid sometimes discourages them more than it reassures them. I know, Madam Minister, that this is a matter of particular interest to you, but the Group of the European People's Party is waiting for the whole Government to commit itself to a minimum remaining burden for the most modest French people and to simplify and secure aid. Environmental realism, economic realism, social realism: this is the way in which the group Acting together will be, with loyalty but also demand, the principle of reality of our majority on this historic bill. It will be our way of playing fairies, but you know how fairies are: they are wise women, with sharp character and demands! They like to check that their good graces are well used, and, if necessary, do not hesitate to brandish their wand! More seriously, if we want this text to achieve its objectives, we must not just want to change society. We also need to change the way the law is done, especially by assessing it better. A pragmatic ecology cannot save on the assessment of its effects, and a law aimed at adaptation itself must show adaptation, that is, to evaluate itself in order to adjust as quickly and fairly as possible to the reality and reaction of the country. That is why this bill will not be able to avoid a rigorous assessment of its environmental, economic, social or legal effects. Freedom is not incidental, my dear colleague. In order to do so, it must incorporate the equivalent of a re-visit clause that allows as much as necessary to re-discussion and adjust its provisions to the capabilities of our country. Of this evaluation requirement, our group will make its rule and its first fight. In particular, it will propose several significant amendments aimed at providing the bill with a rigorous and effective evaluation mechanism: a mechanism that will strengthen Parliament's role in evaluating public policies; who will assess the impact of the law in all its dimensions – environmental, social and economic; which will support the community and business initiative; which will help the executive power to innovate, to change its daily life a little by agreeing, for example, to have its action evaluated and adjusted to the real. This corresponds to a strong demand for democracy and transparency shared by many parliamentarians and fellow citizens. [[Barbara Pompili, Minister for Environmental Transition]] The Action Together Roadmap feeds the Government's ambition through parliamentary conviction and innovation. She invokes the magic of the facts but wants to firmly anchor herself in reality. After all, isn't that the key to ecological success: combining poetry and plumbing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u26	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u27	The bill that brings us together today calls on us, and I first, to be humbled by the magnitude of the task and the challenge we face. The question before us is: how, in France, in the European Union and in the world, can we, collectively or individually, become aware of the need to change our way of working, to radically change human activity and to act in order to reduce the ecological footprint? Before climbing the few steps that lead to the gallery, I was thinking of those of us, many of us, who have children. If you listen carefully, young people between the ages of 20 and 25, who are of the age to settle, to found a family and to enter into working life, ask about their future. I was born in 1966:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u28	He's not his age!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u29	... when I was 20, I was asking myself far less questions than my children today. This is the sign that something is happening, whether it is climate disruption, human activity or the ecological footprint on our planet. As the rapporteur-general said this afternoon, if all the human beings who inhabit our planet lived as we do in the European Union, it would take almost three planets – 2.8, you said, Mr Cazeneuve. This comparison sheds light on the problem. We deal with the subject both well and badly by trying to provide the best answers in many years. Many years ago, in this forum, Jean-Louis Borloo, Minister of Ecology and Sustainable Development, who was interested in it, tried, thanks to his personality, to unite all the deputies, regardless of their sensitivities and the benches on which they sat. For example, he managed to pass the Grenelle laws, including the Grenelle I, which set out strategic guidelines for the implementation of the Grenelle de l'Environnement. The issues before us today were raised by a movement of citizens, the famous yellow vest movement in 2018. I remember very well your predecessor, Minister François de Rugy, in question sessions to the Government explaining in the fall of 2018 that he was maintaining the course, that he was maintaining the trajectory of the ecological transition. At the time, many of us questioned the Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, and the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, François de Rugy, about the social trajectory and the acceptability of the measures to be taken to reduce our ecological footprint. Some of the populations living in outlying territories and rural areas did not include the reduction of the authorized speed to 80 kilometres an hour, the installation at all ranges from fixed radars, known as construction sites, or the increase in the number of technical checkpoints on cars. They were also told that they had to change their boiler to oil because it was polluting. In short, part of the population seemed nailed to the pillori:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u31	... the one who did not necessarily have the means to carry out the ecological transition and the one who did not live in the metropolises or in the urban centres. This disdain fed an anger, increased by the increase in the price of diesel to align it with that of gasoline allegedly less harmful to the environment. All of this led to the Citizen Climate Convention and the bill we are discussing today. How to produce, work, move, shelter, feed, while maintaining the 2030 target of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990? That is the question before us. If I was a tease – and I'm a little tease, Madam Minister – I'll tell you about Jean-Marc Ayrault. A few years ago, when he was Prime Minister, he intended to achieve a big bang of French taxation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u33	... in order to give it an ecological character. He was right. I'm one of those who voted in favour of the Grenelle laws. I am also a Breton Member and I am convinced that the ecotax, a hot topic in Brittany, a peripheral region, a peninsular, deserves our attention. The possibility that could be offered to some regions to experiment with the ecotax for heavy goods vehicles in transit is not annoyed: it must be approached with the utmost precision and seriousness – I am thinking of our Alsatian friends. As far as advertising is concerned, I can only encourage you to reduce it on paper. Of course, like other Members, I have been called by representatives who make great use of this support. Nevertheless, seeing the amount of paper advertising in our mailboxes, it seems to me that it is possible to go beyond what is provided for in the text. I say it in the gallery and I told the people who asked for me. There is of course the container, the paper, but there is also the content. A large distribution chain today claims in an advertisement that, for 21 euros, it can provide twenty-one meals: in other words, for 21 euros, you can eat for one week. I don't believe it. If you use local products that respect the environment, are healthy for health and are traceable, it seems to me very difficult. The text should be able to prohibit all advertisements aimed at banishing foodstuffs derived from French agricultural production. As for the urban planning documents, we discussed at length the regional patterns of planning and sustainable development and balance of the territories, the famous SRADDET, we discussed SCOTs – a scheme of territorial coherence –, PLUs – local urban planning plans – and PLUs – local urban planning plans. I can only encourage you, Madam Minister, to make us actors in simplification – I am thinking of our elected colleagues, mayors or presidents of intercommunals, for whom it is quite complicated! As legislators, we must be day-to-day actors in simplification. In the area of housing, I support you, Madam Minister, on behalf of the majority of the IDU and independent group, on the limitation and eventual prohibition of the rental of thermal colanders. We can't accept it anymore, you're right. I can only encourage you also to put order in what is called the public service of the energy performance of the habitat – the famous SPPH – within which coexist the brand "Do" and the SARE information programme – a service to accompany energy renewal – as well as the territorial platforms for energy renewal of the habitat. It is a maze, a fatras jointly financed by ADEME, a state operator, and by the regions when they pursue a proactive policy. There is scope for clarification, simplification and, above all, optimisation of public money. The MaPrimeRenov device you created does not reach its target. Many of our fellow citizens come to our permanences, ask for intercommunities or meet local platforms: they are lost. [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] [[Bruno Questel applauds]] [[Mrs Emmanuelle Ménardapplauditde nouveau]] Another subject that we will have to discuss is the granting of additional square metres to large areas. In the light of my work with Grégory Besson-Moreau in the Committee of Inquiry on the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with their suppliers, I propose not to frame, nor to limit, but to prohibit the creation of additional large-scale square metres for three years. Why three years? Because a store, which is refused permission by the departmental commercial development commission, turns to the national commission and, in 18 months, obtains authorization. For three years, we could firmly prohibit the expansion of large areas. [[Ms. Minister Hochelatre]] [[Same movement]] I come to the theme of eating. Minister, we must put an end to the dispute between the animal and plant sectors. The EGALIM law provides for the testing of a weekly vegetarian meal. You want to extend the scheme to voluntary communities – do we agree, volunteers? It seems reasonable to me, but of grace, turn off the quarrel between the channels. The farming sectors in France deserve to be supported because they are exemplary: it is not necessary to compare cattle farming in the Central Massif or in Burgundy with feedlots in the United States, in which 2000 or 5000 cattle are fed with animal flour, without anyone questioning the nutritional quality or nutritional balance of the foodstuffs made available to consumers. As far as wind energy is concerned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u34	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u35	...Madam Minister, I know you are very supportive of renewable energy. However, I would like to share my experience with you: in the electoral district where I live, in Fougères, in the Marches de Bretagne, in the country of Fougères and in the whole electoral district, there is a drift. Wind energy developers come with their cheque book to see the owners, sometimes farmers, they ask the town halls and they do forcing. A regulation must be re-established in the installation of the wind turbine. About ten years ago, under François Fillon's government, wind development zones were created. This must be done again and the responsibility for the installation of wind turbines must be entrusted to local elected representatives in the framework of local schemes, e.g. at the SCOT level. In this context, projects are carried out in full transparency and our citizens know in advance where wind turbines can be installed. Today it is anarchy: the residents discover at the last minute the installation of wind turbines and the elected ones have to take on the difficulties. Madam Minister, on behalf of my IDU and independent group, I would also like to stress the importance of the environmental problems affecting the ocean. Our group, in its earlier form as well as in its present form, with Maina Sage, who was a member of it, and today with Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer, elected from New Caledonia, and Nicole Sanquer from French Polynesia, is very attentive to it. The Overseas Members – I see colleagues from Guadeloupe, Martinique and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon – are very sensitive to environmental quality and the concept of ecological transition, and it is thanks to them that I have better understood the importance of these concepts. France is a country for which the overseas world is very important: a text like the one you are presenting, Madam Minister, cannot ignore issues relating to the seas and oceans. In conclusion, it is a note of hope that you should be able to define in your bill: it would indeed be appropriate to explain to the French the period of transition that we are living in. I was saying this afternoon that this is a question of temporality: we should be able to explain what the jobs are in extinction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u36	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u37	... because the ecological transition will make some jobs disappear, but also what are the emerging professions, the new professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u39	Ten, twenty, thirty or forty years ago, no one imagined green jobs, the jobs of sorting, collecting and treating waste. These are new jobs and you should be able to enlighten our fellow citizens on the creation of these new fields...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u40	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u41	... and on the jobs that will disappear: this question does not appear sufficiently in the text. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] I've been a long time, but it was an opportunity to sweep away some of the topics we care about. The IDU and independent group will see if it will vote for this text. As I have already said in committee, I wish we could vote on it, but we will take our decision in the light of the debates we have had here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u42	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u43	There's an emergency. Our planet is warming up, biodiversity is eroding, and pollution is taking precedence over life everywhere. Are we at the dawn of a historic moment, or not? Let us be clear: the next three weeks are our last opportunity to advance ecology, raising our ambitions in the fight against climate change, preserving biodiversity and strengthening our resilience. How will we be remembered? Like those who dared? By fully assuming the powers entrusted to us by the citizens and by refusing to submit to the injunctions and to content ourselves with declarations of good intentions, let us give back the splendour of the legislative power that we incarnate. Will we be of those who resign themselves to beautiful words, or of those who act? Of those who give hope back to the word of the elected ones, or of those who still disappoint and deepen the gap between the elected ones and the citizens? Can we tell our children that we have done our best for them and their future? Today, with this text, we have the power to put forward at least the proposals of the Citizen's Convention for Climate, but would it not be best to go even further and be even more demanding? From droughts to floods, storms and extreme weather events, the French see day after day the extent of climate change and, tomorrow, even the most sceptical will demand accounts. Yesterday, in Hazebrouck, Lille and all over France, young and old walked for the climate, asking us to act and not to step back. The climate and resilience bill had to carry this ambition: to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, in order to keep our planet habitable. The ambition is laudable, but I doubt that the measures are up to date. The various environmental policy impact assessments of the Government are not such as to reassure. The High Climate Council believes that if the text is adopted as it stands, we will only make half of the necessary efforts. The members of the Citizens' Convention, obviously disappointed, were also critical. With a general score of 3.3 out of 10, it smells like a patch, whether it's in June or the fall. So let us go along the path that remains to be taken in the measures planned, by cultivating benevolence and listening, not contempt, arrogance and self-satisfaction, as has sometimes been the case this afternoon. For many of us, we emerge from the examination of the text in a special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u45	You claim that we have no proposals, but too many of the proposals we made to put the climate at the heart of our national project have been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u46	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u47	This raises questions: nearly 1,000 amendments were considered legislative riders, while a large majority of them were linked, even indirectly, to the text. As for the amendments which, according to their authors or their political affiliation, have passed censorship or not, this is yet another question. During the debates in committee, those who had passed were dismissed, even if they were of common sense. Is it necessary to belong to the majority in order to be able to legislate? After its examination in committee, the text remains almost unchanged, with its pitfalls and shortcomings, which my colleague François-Michel Lambert referred to a number of. I will add to this long list the lack of a comprehensive vision on sustainable development. Too much to focus on greenhouse gas emissions, you seem to have forgotten the protection of biodiversity. Yet, "everything is connected." Agenda 2030, a presentation on the grids of the National Assembly last January, reminds us of this. While Article 19 of the Environmental Code sets out the importance of the preservation and restoration of aquatic natural environments, Article 56 deals with the national strategy for protected areas, but it is above all a principle and incantatory in nature. As for the French forest, which absorbs almost 20% of national CO emissions each year, it is for subscribers who are absent. However, the citizens had made interesting proposals, such as banning shavings, minimizing the replanting of resins or ensuring the mixing of varieties. I also regret the important use of orders, and all the more so on key issues. This is particularly the case for the reform of the mining code. Coming from a former mining basin, Valencien, and a former draftsman on the post-mine issue, I know the social, environmental and strategic stakes that these projects take with them. I would have liked to discuss it beyond a simple authorization to legislate by order and the three articles added in committee. The important place left to decrees on a subject such as artificialization also questions me. As we have seen in committee, the definition set out in the text is already contested and will have to be clarified by the regulatory power, without, to date, having satisfactory prospects on its contours. Understand my reluctance: the legislative provisions passed during this quinquennium have too often been circumvented. Behind the speeches and the elements of language, I will take a concrete example: the EGALIM law provided that by 2022, 50% of the products served in the collective restoration would be organic or sustainable. Since a decree of 25 January 2021, the EVA Charter has obtained the level 2 environmental certification by the Ministry of Agriculture. This charter, a kind of minimum foundation, has many limitations: no environmental criteria, nothing on the source of food, and no animal welfare criteria. All intensive chicken farms can now benefit from protected access to the quality collective catering market by making sure they are sustainable. On the ground, in practice, this is reflected in the authorization, in my constituency, in Steenwerck, of a first industrial breeding project of 117000 chickens, despite the opposition of 91% of the population, which obviously feels blurred and to which I renew my support. Let us put an end to the slogans, in order to achieve, at national level, the ambition so vigorously carried by the President of the Republic at European level. Who knows? We may be able to meet the European Commission's target of a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, following consideration of this text. We are deputies, elected, adult and accountable to the nation. Every one of our votes, every one of our decisions engages us. Let's make sure we're proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u48	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u49	Honey, I woke up the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u50	We're gonna get high!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u51	The planet is sick, too, and unfortunately it has become almost a banality to say so. For a long time now, the warning signal has been fired and the machine continues its course despite everything. Yet the number and scale of climate events are increasing, with significant consequences for our lives and health. There is an urgent need to change course and speed up the movement. The solution lies neither in technocracy nor in any domination whatsoever. The ecological transition must be social and democratic, otherwise it is doomed to failure. It can only be done by the women and men of our country and of the world. But when everything is conditioned to profit, when short-term profitability is the rule, humanity and the planet are jointly mistreated. To do it right, you should first see it and recognize it. This Sunday, we were many and many to walk for the climate, and it is strong from this aspiration that we refuse to resolve to poster decisions. For too many years, the main political solutions have been to insist on eco-citizen actions, to bring responsibility for climate change to bear on individual actions. And while it is true that everyone can act on a daily basis, it limits the sense of guilt of citizens who mask the renunciation of changing the system. Other political choices are needed to accelerate the ecological and social bifurcation, which must be thought out, constructed and accompanied with boldness. This requires massive investments to transform our lifestyles, production and consumption. This requires questioning the cult of free trade and free and undistorted competition, exiting from the commodification that chosifies everything and from the privatization of everything to regain meaning and really build common. How can we rely on the market and finance to meet the challenges of the planet? It's a dead end. There will be volunteers to trade in ecology, segment by segment, including rights to pollute, as long as it returns, but it will not make a common world where humans and the planet are respected. This battle is not a question of generations and, throughout society, consciousness grows and will progresses, but it is of course of economic interests that it ends. We have the responsibility, in this moment of crisis, which is not just an ecological crisis, but a crisis of civilization, to find the way to a new stage in humanity. Moreover, after promises and communications operations, if a law is enough, it seems obvious that we are far from the point of view of this text, which appears to be sewing in order to get a flood. What happened to the many proposals made within the framework of the Citizen's Climate Convention and by the EESC, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council and so many others, which did not fit into the neoliberal software of macronia? For many, straight to the shovel! However, there is an urgent need to combine the response, for everyone, with their needs and the guarantee of their fundamental rights, by reducing the ecological footprint that ultimately forms part of it. However, as it stands, this text, which remains a text with holes, will not achieve the objectives that France set itself during the Paris Agreement. However, there would be levers to operate through strong public services, a common goods promotion approach, social, ethical and environmental dumping, and massive investment to develop another model. Strong public services, this starts by not dismantling EDF with the disastrous Hercule project, and not leaving the energy transition at the discretion of the market. It also starts with means for the NFB, the National Forestry Board, for the DREALs, the regional environmental, planning and housing directorates, which control the classified facilities, because we have to transform our industrial production methods, and this is quite poorly suited to shareholders' profitability requirements. On the industrial port of Fos-sur-Mer, arrangements are to be realized and synergies to be built: one must have a coherent vision, which works to localize the productions as an asset for the planet. We could imagine a public industrial incubator, capable of driving this new age, in the context of true ecological planning, to bring out new solutions. At the same time, we must think of the social security systems of the ecological transition for employees, combined with a momentum of training and qualification, which places the human person at the heart of these transformations. We must also choose to take the transport offensive. Rail freight accounted for 45% of freight transport in France in 1974. It is now only 9%, having fallen through the liberalisation and privatisation laws, which are the heart of European construction as we know it. In my constituency, this decline is flagrant, both at the arrival and at the departure of the Grand Port maritime de Marseille. Powerful decisions are needed to develop rail freight, which is twice as polluting as the road. For people, the development of public transport, especially rail transport, ensuring both a sobriety of global means and the fundamental right of everyone to move, is a fundamental issue. We have to move on to another scale. However, the 2019 LOM law already provided for service reductions on the lines, implemented without delay. These are overwhelming decisions that are damaging passenger transport throughout France: for example, between 60000 and 80000 vehicles run every day between Martigues and Marseille, even though a railway line exists between these two cities. However, thanks to the development of a public public transport network of long distance connections, it would be possible to make a profound change to Istres and Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône, passing through the industrial area of Fos-sur-Mer, with infrastructure developments, adapted paces and tariff offers up to free. Let's get it done. The results of the experiments that introduced gratuity, as in Aubagne, are instructive. Beyond that, if proposals are made in the text for the development of so-called clean vehicles, what are we doing to make the price accessible to all families, regardless of their income, rather than to make a whole part of the population both guilty and victim? The same applies to the thermal renovation of dwellings. It is therefore a bill on social and environmental justice that we need as quickly as possible. It is also necessary to take care of small-scale fishing and peasant farming. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to air pollution, by renewing the proposal, Madam Minister, to make the Gulf of Fos a pilot territory in the fight against this scourge. A more egalitarian society will be better able to meet the challenge, a society that shares and pays work properly. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Let's make the choices together, accompany the transformations, invest in the future. Let us change course, accelerate, take our hand, for our planet is a common good and we must protect it to live with dignity. It's a matter of humanity. Let's not miss that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u52	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u53	[[The rapporteur-general asked]] Here we are in front of a text without a filter and ambitious: ambitious, because it is part of the low-carbon strategy; without a filter, because it fits, if I believe the President of the Republic, in the steps of the conventional ones. I knew cigarettes without filters, which are bad for health. I knew the exhaust pipes without filters, which are bad for air quality. This is participatory democracy without a filter (Sourries on some of the LR group's banks. – The rapporteur-general is also sure),...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u54	You're the one without a filter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u55	... with the risk of letting go into the atmosphere of legislative particles harmful to democracy. It should be recalled that, as it is not the Government that makes the law, the filter will play its role modestly, which will prevent it from being mistakenly taken for a recording chamber, which would only be there to copy what one would like to dictate to it. Unfortunately, there are three types of problems. Firstly, it is no longer well known who supports this text. Secondly, it is full of symbolic, redundant or inapplicable measures, and ignores what the Republican Group considers essential to combat global warming. Thirdly, it does not take into account the economic context. The problem with this text is that it corresponds to the list of conventional races, with keywords: urgency, bifurcation, resilience, biodiversity. What is the strategy, when we put on the same plan "Yes pub" and ecocide? It is in a spirit of simplification and clarity that we approach this text, which is unanimous, Madam Minister, but unfortunately against it. This began with the Green Red Card on Sunday, 28 February, as the treaty parties met one last time to see if the Government had taken up their proposals. They sent you a red card, not assigning the average to any of the titles of this bill: 3.4 out of 10 for "housing", 3.7 out of 10 for "producing and working", "feeding" and "moving". Worse still, the crime of ecocide, which was to be one of its flagship measures, is the least noted, with 2.7 out of 10. I fear that the only crime found in this text by the treaty is that of obstructing the climate emergency. After the red card of the Greens, it was your own majority who fined the text: she loves it so much that she has completely rewritten it! Of the approximately 3800 amendments discussed in committee, nearly 1400 were submitted by Members of the La République group on the move and 350 were tabled by Members of the Dem group: 442 of them were adopted in committee. Rebelote in public sitting, where some 1600 amendments were tabled by Members of the La République group on the move,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u56	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u57	2200 amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u58	...which corresponds to a total rewrite. Either the text was imperfect from the beginning, or they did not read the President of the Republic well, who asked them to take it back without a filter. Red card, fine, and finally, the EESC's request, which has expressed serious reservations about a large number of provisions. I quote one of the rapporteurs for the EESC opinion, who said that "to date, in view of the proposals in the bill, the account is not there". As a courtesy, I will save you the EESC's petitions, measures that lack ambition, which will not necessarily be applicable, which will make them useless – hard words that I know are hurting your ears, but this is unfortunately the truth. Beyond all the unsatisfied people I have just mentioned – the EESC, the conventionals, your majority – the opposition is very modest, we ourselves. Because we are somewhat dissatisfied with the substance. We thought that the word "nuclear"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u59	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u60	... would appear in this text, which deals with climate, since nuclear power can be obtained with decarbant power. Nothing. When François Bayrou spoke of nuclear power,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u61	Ah, let's go back to the basic ideology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u62	...we believed in the way to Damascus, because even François de Rugy discovered nuclear power! Everything happens in 2021!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u63	He's an observer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u64	At last we thought we had a debate on energy, but it was hardly lost and we are still under "Yes advertising". We thought we were talking about wind turbines, but it was worth it and we're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u65	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u66	We have hoped that the Minister will catch up with gas, an energy essential for the energy transition, because less bad than coal and oil, but not at all. We thought we would talk about promoting land cover agriculture: not really. We therefore believed that we would talk about circular economy, but not at all. Are we going to talk about the forest? Neither. If this text were on the bachelor's program, minister, you wouldn't have the average. I have the impression that the fairies that have leaned on the cradle of this text are somewhat acerbic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u67	Ah, more fairies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u68	You will understand that we do not chorus with you to celebrate its beauties. In our view, this bill is just a piece of communication, and here are a few examples. First, with regard to symbolic measures, attention must be paid to overheating, overheating of symbols. The heated terraces...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u69	They're not in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u70	... are a good example of this, as they are responsible for 0.001 % of greenhouse gas emissions, which is a relatively derisory impact on the fight against global warming. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen, that this 0.001 % deserves the attention we give it? I agree that we can discuss this, but, in view of the urgency, given the economic context in which we are, with the bars and restaurants closed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u71	It wasn't urgent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u72	...we should send the country a message other than throwing a last shovel of land, telling closed establishments that even those of them who could have opened their heated terraces next winter will not be able to do so. A little common sense, ladies and gentlemen! This is the kind of punitive measure that can only increase the divide between those who talk about the end of the world and those who talk about the end of the month! In addition to the symbolic measures, the measures already met are shown. I will refer to the circular economy, since you do not, by indicating how you recycle, in a clumsy but circular way, certain ideas already present in old texts. This is the case with the vegetarian menu: the so-called EGALIM law – which has not reached its target, but it is another subject – has planned an experiment, which has been underway since November 2019, offering a vegetarian menu, at least once a week, in school canteens, and whose conclusions should be made next May. What is Parliament doing, without even having the report of the first experiment? He hastened to cross a new limit and to propose a new experiment on the same subject. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, we are told that it is not once a week, but once a day. However, knowing that a study by ANSES, the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency, 2019, indicated that 25% of girls between the ages of 13 and 17 have iron deficiencies due to lack of meat, fish or eggs
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u73	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u74	... knowing that, for the children of some families, the meal in the canteen is the only balanced meal of the day, knowing that the imposition of a vegetarian menu can only increase such deficiencies, who really thinks that the vegetarian menu is a priority in the fight against global warming? I'm still giving you a good point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u75	Ah, definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u76	You have accepted an amendment to ban synthetic meat: at least your vegetarianism will not lead to the feeding of a form of artificial meat, known as paillass meat. However, we will be careful to ensure that this amendment goes beyond the scope of the House. [[Smile on various benches]] Putting aside the symbolic measures and those already carried out, I come to the ambiguities. Now I say, congratulations! For you have invented a new legal concept, that of delictual crime (Sourries on the SOC group's banks. – The rapporteur-general also requests) or a criminal offence, I do not know. Ecocide is indeed a hybrid legal form, which looks like a crime, is called a crime but is not punished as a crime. From the etymological point of view, which is not useless at the moment when Greek and Latin are set aside by the deconstruction of the school, the word homicide comes from the Latin "homicida", that is to say "homo", which means "man", and "caeder", which means "kill" – which is a fundamental problem, because if one can kill a man, I am not sure that one can kill the environment. We can damage him. You consider that killing the environment, symbolically, is the same thing as killing man, in which we have a philosophical divergence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u77	Crime and crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u78	I respect those who think that both should be punished in the same way, but in these circumstances we must go to the end of the logic. The text cannot contain a term as serious as that of ecocide, so that, in the end, it results in a mouse, a crime, far away, moreover, from what the conventionals proposed, which evoked the "manifest and not negligible exceedance of the planetary limits". Frankly, can killing be a crime? I don't think so. From a legal point of view, this mechanism is not appropriate. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] I come to the third part of my speech. This text penalizes and forgets the context in which it evolves. Remember that it is the yellow vest crisis that is at the origin. What is wonderful in France is that between the starting point of the idea and its outcome, we find that we have done exactly the opposite of what we wanted to do! Initially, a popular crisis emerged, bringing together French people who said they had enough of punitive ecology, insufficiently thought, or at least thought by France from above. If they recognized the global climate issue, they asked for social issues to be taken into account. In the end, they are presented with a caddie filled with punitive and fiscal prohibitions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u79	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u80	... 90 degrees, or even 180 degrees, from their expectations. [[Smile on the banks of the LR Group.–M. MaximeMinotapplaudit]] A good example is the ecotax. For reading LeJDD – LeJournaldudimanche–, I understood that I was wrong to say that this text restores it. All right! What you're introducing is not an ecotax: it looks like an ecotax, it tastes like an ecotax, it will be paid as an ecotax, but it's not an ecotax. Therefore, in order to please Minister Dupond-Moretti, who spoke of the quasi-obligation of results, I propose that you speak of quasi-ecotax during our debates. So, our expression will be balanced. But for the citizen, Madam Minister, it is red bonnet and red bonnet: in the end, the result will be the same. Moreover, the Government is not very courageous, since it extended the date of the measure's authorization in 2023. I know that at the moment, it is the way to shift all elections, but unless Mr Macron wishes without admitting it to re-establish the septennium, it is likely that there will be a deadline in 2022. Therefore, in order to encourage you to go to the end of your logic and to help you to be brave, I will defend an amendment to ensure that empowerment takes place before the presidential election. This will allow the French to seize the subject: do you want, yes or no, a beautiful regional ecotax? This is, I think, a debate that will have to be held during the presidential campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u81	This could be the subject of a survey!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u82	We will see whether or not you will agree to shorten the clearance period. Do you want other examples that show that you forget the economic context and the popular classes? At a time when the centre of Marseille will exclude old cars,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u83	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u84	... you propose to generalize low-emission mobility areas – ZFE-m – in agglomerations with more than 150000 inhabitants. The only response to this type of measurement is the purchase of a new vehicle. But not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle or emit little carbon dioxide. Instead of the Twingo at 12,500 euros, which takes its reverence because it is thermal and no longer meets your new constraints, comes an electric vehicle that costs 20,000 euros. Even though some devices would allow the most modest to pass the course, the middle classes will find themselves in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u85	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u86	This is the problem of the ecology that you push: it strikes the popular classes, because the cost of the environmental transition is very high. Let's take another example: what do you decide about housing? Supply reduction, price increases, standards and taxation. In other words, you are hindering the issuance of building permits through your measures to combat the artificialisation of the soil, while environmental regulations RE 2020 will increase the construction bill, which will increase or even blaze prices; At the same time, you will remove poorly isolated housing from the market, which will reduce demand. Who will pay the social bill? The poorest, the popular classes. That's why your measurements make us uncomfortable. We are not against the prohibition of thermal colanders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u87	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u88	... of which we would all like them not to exist, but finally, rapporteur-general, you have read – since you read a lot – the report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre. So you know that the number of homeless people and people on the street exploded in 2020. Is it in this context that the number of dwellings should be reduced?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u89	The accommodation will be renovated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u90	These are issues that need to be considered. Moreover, your measures to combat soil artificialisation illustrate your lack of courage. You affirm the principle of non-artificialization, but, because you cannot define it, you expect that, for ten years, we will continue to operate under the previous system, which is totally baroque in legal terms. Your bill won't do the planet any good. I'm afraid, son of conventional greens and yellow vests, he will give birth to a red hat or a donkey hat – at your choice. Your ecology oscillates between the proactive transformation of society and symbolic gadget. But you will not succeed if you do not take into account the place of man, which is important for the planet but must also be in your texts. The man, who is interested in his work, his family, his environment, does not want to be sacrificed to policies that seem to him disconnected from his everyday life. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Marie-France Lorho also applauds]] That is why, Jean-Marie Sermier, the whole group, the Republicans and I will defend common-sense amendments throughout the discussion of the text, in order to prevent harmful particles from dispersing into the atmosphere. We will defend the principle of a pragmatistic and humanistic ecology, the only one able to win the support of the vast majority, in order to face the challenges of the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u91	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u92	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] I would have liked to welcome the rapporteurs, but only the rapporteur-general and the rapporteur for Title I are present in the Chamber... After two weeks of reviewing this bill in a special committee, unfortunately we are not much more advanced. Is this text making progress? Yes, I recognise this, particularly in the fight against soil artificialisation, greening public procurement and areas with low mobility emissions. All right! That goes in the right direction. However, is the text satisfactory? No, to a great extent, and, as you know, disappointment prevails. The expectations of economic actors, associative actors, environmental actors and citizens are immense and, it is true, sometimes contradictory,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u94	...but, with the half-measures, you didn't satisfy anyone. [["Nobody! »on the banks of the SOCandLR groups]] Let us ask ourselves a question: apart from the majority, who supports this text today in the country? No one, or at least not a big world. Why? Because with this text, we're in the permanent ad effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u95	In the com'!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u96	One wants to strike the opinion, to give the appearance of ambition, to summon the great authors to make history – to use a term that you used this afternoon, Madam Minister – or to initiate a "major cultural change" – to quote the explanatory statement. But if we look at the text in detail, we find that it is not on the appointment. All the studies show that the measures contained in it will not allow us to achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves. The Council of State, the EESC, the National Council for Ecological Transition (CNTE), the High Climate Council, the private firms BCG – Boston Consulting Group – and Carbone 4 do not say anything else.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u97	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u98	And the debates in committee, even rich – as we have said, both of them – have not made any concrete progress: out of the 5,000 amendments tabled, one quarter have been declared inadmissible and, out of the 442 adopted, almost 380 come directly from the majority, of which 150 are purely editorial. The text is locked. I say this quietly to the Government and to the majority: this display ecology no longer convinces anyone, because an addition of very limited measures does not make a policy of real transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u99	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u100	An addition of experiments, based solely on the goodwill of those already convinced, will not allow us to move forward at the pace required by the climate situation. And even when your goals are laudable and could bring us together, you are at the same time standing on the brakes. This is typical with respect to the rental of thermal colanders. You claim to prohibit it in 2028, but you still make this prohibition subject to a referral to the judge by the tenant. Frankly, which tenant will file an appeal if he does not have the opportunity to choose another dwelling?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u102	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] That's the question, and that's the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u104	Therefore, Madam Minister, why should this so-called ban be accompanied by a path of judicial obstacles? If you really want to ban the rental of thermal colanders, you have to say it clearly and simply in the law. The "at the same time" does not work: one cannot be for the prohibition and, at the same time, make it ineffective in reality. You have to choose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u106	But the feeling of your ecology policy is that you refuse to choose, beyond the fine declarations of intent. Understand me: I don't pretend that everything is simple. I'm not saying, like Mrs. Valérie Petit, that it would be enough with a magic wand. But the ecology we are defending is trying to be fair and ambitious. It is an ecology determined to really act, to change our ways of producing and consuming, with a permanent requirement: to unite, accompany and truly reduce inequalities and injustices. It is, in short, an ecology that benefits everyone. Obviously – as we know well, and we have said during the debates in the special committee – we will not be able to leave it to the modes of production and consumption as we have imagined them for fifty years. We have to reinvent ourselves. The new growth model – I am talking about growth – proposed by members of the Socialist and related group allows us to produce and redistribute. How? Dominique Potier stressed this: through regulation, that is, by ensuring that the rules are fair and that everyone has the same chance to live in a more isolated dwelling, to ride in a clean car, to choose his mode of transport and to eat healthy without exhausting the land. It is in fact an ecology of the best collective that we defend, both in this Chamber and outside. On these issues, we must move forward with humility, discernment and determination. I believe that the French can no longer enjoy permanent self-satisfaction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u107	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u108	... of "we did everything right, we succeeded everything". This applies both to ecology and public health. Admit that the opposition, too, can make useful proposals to the country...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u110	... and that they should not be rejected a priori in the name of a supposed rule of acceptability, which is often only the appearance of a closure or a immobilism – while our society is ready to move forward, provided that the efforts are properly distributed. Let us assume the responsibility that weighs on our shoulders. Assume, assume that changes are needed, and that they must be fair and adjusted to be effective. We have said it and we repeat it: there will be no successful transition without justice. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] As you know, my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group and I will never go into the ecology of punishment. I said, we defend an ecology of regulation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u111	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u112	... which redistributes, raises awareness, educates and trusts the responsibility of citizens, elected representatives and companies, as long as a course, a staking, has been set by the legislator. We defend social-ecology, which believes in the education and information of the citizen, and which is consistent with its objectives, not the ecology that claims to say stop to the most polluting vehicles in 2030, by prohibiting by then only advertising for what? : for petrol or gas cylinders. It is clear that this is not consistent, that it is not enough. We defend social-ecology, which aims to redress inequalities, to eliminate injustices. That is why we are making concrete proposals – I hope you will hear them: a zero-rate "clean ride" loan to give everyone the opportunity to buy a clean vehicle; experimenting with "zero hunger" territories, in order to fight food insecurity in a sustainable way and to ensure a sustainable food supply; stopping the closure of small SNCF lines,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u113	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u114	... for a real public transport offer; a genuine ban on renting thermal colanders from 2028 – these houses I have already mentioned; Finally, an environmental and social display on products. No one here thinks that we should go back to the proposals of the Citizens' Climate Convention. As elected representatives of the nation, we have a duty to determine sovereignly the general interest and to chart the way to that end. But let us not be amnesia either: because this convention has done a good job, we owe respect to the citizens who have been heavily involved in it. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several GDR benches]] The account was not there when the text arrived in committee. Nor is it here tonight, as we begin the debate in open session. We have three weeks to make a difference and to be at the rendezvous of our commitments for carbon neutrality, in line with the Paris agreements we signed in 2015. It's within our reach, if we want to. So, at work, for a real climate law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u115	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u116	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u117	A lot has already been said. Nevertheless, the seriousness of our debates warrants a tireless repetition of what brings us together this evening. I salute those who follow us on social networks, especially on Twitch. The climate is warming. Biodiversity collapses at a frightening rate. Natural resources are or are in the process of being exhausted. The development of chronic diseases worldwide – cardiovascular diseases, cancers, obesity, etc. – is linked to living, working and feeding conditions. It is precisely this chilling state of affairs that must guide our discussions in the coming weeks. Yet, despite the extreme urgency that this state of affairs calls for, the bill does not allow France to fulfil its commitments. Nor is it faithful to the conclusions of the Citizen's Climate Convention. Climate change is the business of the century, and France can meet the challenges of this urgency. Yes, greenhouse gas emissions can be drastically reduced by ensuring social justice and improving the quality of life for all. Transforming our ways of producing, consuming, living, moving is within reach. Solutions exist. They call for powerful public policies to deploy. They involve voluntarism, coherence, consistency. But where is the political will, when we think, like others, of the jokers opposed by the President of the Republic or the dozens of filters waved to rule out the most effective proposals aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions or the most in rupture with the consumerist forward flight? A lot has been said, it's true, but not all. Despite recent awareness of the climate emergency, the issue of gender is rarely addressed in climate discussions. Moreover, so far it has not been in our debates either. It is not a question of looking in biology for the reasons for differences in conduct or social practices, but simply of recognizing, as yet another state of affairs, that the effects of climate change have different consequences for men and women. First, because the effects of climate change mainly affect precarious populations and women account for 70 per cent of people living on less than $1 a day in the world. Secondly, because of gender-based social relations and gender stereotypes, women are still largely responsible for household chores and family care. The inclusion of gender in our reflections on the climate emergency must ensure the success of the measures we are voting on, and above all prevent them being disproportionately based on women. Many studies have shown that behaviour and consumption differ according to gender. This is the case with travel and transportation, with women making greater use of public transport and walking, energy consumption – heating, air conditioning – technology and eating habits. Let's take a quick example. Title II of the draft law "Producing and working" deals with the support of employees and companies in the energy transition. The potential for job creation created by major ecological works is known: ADEME estimates it at 900000. For example, thermal renovation of buildings creates 15 jobs per million euros invested. However, almost all of these occupations are non-mixed: women account for only 15% of employees in so-called green occupations. And they are also few in sectors with high "greening" potential: they account for 10% of the construction workforce and 25% in transport. Without a proactive policy of feminization of these jobs, it is likely that women will not benefit from it. [[Applause on several issues of the SOC and GDR groups. – Ms FionaLazaarapplauditedalso]] In conclusion, I would like to quote a few words from my colleague Delphine Batho – she should have been here tonight but the magic of the tourniquet means that I am in her place – whose commitment and tireless work on this subject I want to acknowledge: "The driving role of women in ecological transformation must finally be recognized. It is not linked to any difference in temperament or to a predisposition that would be made by their kind, but to their concrete experience of domination. Excluded from power, women were relegated to a whole set of material tasks that paradoxically built their science of relation to nature. [...] Women's common experience of excluding power in all areas, while they are the majority in society, makes them more quick to want to transform that power and reinvent a positive relationship of all – men and women – in life. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u118	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u119	Yesterday, the former minister of the ecological and solidarity transition denounced the systematic opposition of climate activists, but perhaps they would just like to be able to count on the ministers responsible for our future? Like many others, I walked yesterday with the indispensable actors and actors in the fight against climate change, among our fellow citizens, young and old, trade unions, parties and associations. We were numerous to demand a real law for the climate and above all to denounce the inaction of the public authorities with regard to the destruction of our common goods. Because yes, the most serious thing is what you don't do. The members of the Citizens' Convention for Climate, drawn by lot and who for months have pitched on concrete proposals for action repeat this: this bill is a series of measures aimed at greening the speech of a president in search of popularity, a president who did not know how to get out of the yellow vest movement and who is obviously unable to do anything other than greenwashing. How could it be otherwise when, in the fight against the destruction of the planet, you refuse to face free and undistorted competition, social dumping, hyperconsumption, during capitalism, the concern for profitability for all that concerns our lives, the treaties of free trade, when you continue to weaken public services? Since the President of the Republic is concerned with the preservation of major private interests, the text has abandoned from the outset to address the root causes of global warming. The Convention's ambitious proposals have been swept away by a turnaround: ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – climate, dividend tax, climate liability of large companies, strict air transport supervision... There is no shortage of examples. To make the necessary changes, democracy will have to deploy all its tools, on all scales. Once again, we note that this is not your strong point: after evicting or scrapping the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention, you have massively rejected the amendments, at least those that were not deemed inadmissible in advance. Ambition, political will and strong actions: this is what is needed and what we were waiting for – even if, I admit, we did not hope for it. Your renunciation puts us in danger. Our society understands it better and better, which gives us tremendous hope and leverage. The majority certainly underestimates the awareness that the popular classes have of the climate emergency. First of all, they face the ravages very concretely; ecology is not just a bourgeois concern. It is also a collective aspiration to live better, to live together and to live by deciding our common destiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u121	Look at the world of work mobilizing, these employees on strike on the site of the Grandpuits refinery, mobilized against the hundreds of job losses announced by the Total Group even though it makes billions of euros of profits on the backs of its employees and the planet. At their side are Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace; They are leading the way by collectively defending proposals to work on both the issue of employment and the question of energy transition, to get out of oil and all carbonic energies. The same applies to EDF employees opposed to the Hercule project. We support them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u122	And you're right, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u123	...because EDF can be a great tool for making the energy transition, provided we do not dismantle this company, do not privatize it, do not deliver it to private interests, and then, once again, place us in front of your false disarray, your complicity apathy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] This bill is indeed an act of censorship of the Citizen Climate Convention and of the concerns of the population. While all the climate lights are in the red, that the climate crisis has revealed that we need a major fork, that an opportunity presents itself to articulate the end of the world and the end of the month, you give up. Do you intend to tackle the profound transformation of the current mode of production, which promotes a society that is all-displayable, unimaginable waste at the cost of a degraded quality of life for the vast majority of our fellow citizens? No. Will you look at the bosses of multinationals with the same passivity as when they destroy the employment and life of thousands of people? Yes. Will French banks be able to continue investing in fossil fuels in complete tranquillity? Yes. Air polluted, poisonous food, tools and objects, is this world of goods the only future you propose? Yes. In fact, these concerns are not yours, because they endanger your model. On the other hand, they feed our concerns, because they endanger our planet, our humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u124	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u125	As Martinique and as a Frenchman, I consider this text, which comes after COP21, the IPCC alerts – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – and the Citizen Climate Convention – to be very important. However, my colleagues have noted – brilliantly indeed – some shortcomings, delays and inconsistencies. For example, with regard to energy renovation, the artificialisation of the soil, the reduced VAT on local products – an issue of great interest to me – you do not propose a clear, frank solution. And then, worse, on the crime of ecocide, demonstration was made that you chose not to go as far as we wished in our various interventions. Minister, let us take the example of an extremely important problem, which you know very well, that of chlordecone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u127	In the West Indies, we had a crime of ecocide before the letter, and before other demonstrations of the same type. From 1972 on, Martiniquia and Guadeloupe land had been polluted, leading to a health disaster, with 92% of Martinique and 95% of Guadeloupeans now affected in their blood by chlordecone. How, after such a tragedy, which is still not over, can we refuse to envisage the creation of the crime of ecocide? This example shows that there is no ecological transition without social justice, as has been repeated by many speakers. I will even go further, warning you: there is no social justice without environmental justice. If we do not give ourselves the means to fight, we risk falling into the negation of the environment and the human being caused by the excesses of productivism. It is because banana plantations were managed according to the quest for maximum profit that human dignity was trampled – this example should make us think. Even though this text is important, among all its failures, one touched me deeply, even in my flesh. How can the Government and the parliamentarians present here accept a text that absolutely does not address the issue of the overseas – apart from the mine measures mentioned earlier by the rapporteur Damien Adam? In the previous texts, you would use what I call an "Order Policy" for the Overseas, dealing with matters relating to these territories separately, in texts drafted by the executive. In this text, however, nothing can be found which concerns them in a clear and clear way. I already know your answer: "But listen, since section 73 of the Constitution enshrines the principle of legislative identity for these territories, the seventy-five and a few sections of the bill will apply to them! However, Madam Minister, I believe that your services have ignored the provisions of section 73 of the Constitution that allow Parliament and the Government to make derogations and adjustments for overseas countries and territories, but also to empower the communities concerned to do so themselves, on the spot, in order to resolve specific problems. It's important. A serious mistake – I do not know how you will correct it, I hope you will accept all our amendments – has been made: the overseas countries have the status of an ultraperipheral region under European law. I would ask your services to analyse the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 23 February 1983, says Wagner, which states that discrimination consists not only in dealing differently with situations which are identical, but also in dealing "in the same way with situations which are different". This consideration is applied in terms of ecology and nature: the climate of Martinique and Guadeloupe, their ecosystems and their biodiversity cannot be compared with those of here – to say so is not to insult them, and the difference is a wealth. But you treat them the same way! I will give you a few examples: 80% of French biodiversity and 97% of marine and oceanic areas are located overseas. These ecosystem and biological riches, of which France can pride itself and which allow it to occupy important places in the UN, the OECD, the European Union and NATO, are however never evaluated as such, including by the French Office for Biodiversity (OFB). This lack of recognition leads you to leave there, in the name of the principle of identity, the legal mechanisms that you want to establish in metropolitan France. For these territories, the risk is enormous. Between 1993 and 2014, for example, the average level of the oceans increased by almost 3.2 millimetres per year. By 2060, the only Martinique, which measures 1100 square kilometres, will lose 70 kilometres of coastline, leading to the displacement of a large population. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, 15% to 35% of indigenous species could disappear. With climate disruptions, storms, cyclones and hurricanes are twice as powerful as they were twenty or thirty years ago. Drought cycles, marked by the lack of water or the scarcity of water resources, are increasing; The expansion of endemic diseases is one of the most significant manifestations. The climate overexposure of these islands, linked to their island situation and the proximity to the ocean, is not taken into account in your text. I am both touched and disappointed by these oblivions. But the Government can still find time to prepare an important chapter on overseas. Beyond the risks we face, we want to avoid the disappearance of our values, so precious, our identity, the collapse of our cultural practices and the weakening of our ancestral resilience – from all this, the text does not speak at all. What is important for us is to regulate and legislate by adapting to local realities, in terms of thermal regulation, maritime transport, treatment of energy sieves, renewable energy policy, equivalence of standards, energy certificates and energy performance diagnostics, proximity production, carbon cost of imports, massive overseas – but the text does not talk about all this. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mr. François-Michel Lambert also applauds]] In order to meet all these challenges, we must work together to build mechanisms adapted to local reality. Yes, we must avoid a global ecological disaster, but we must also invent a new model of growth and development, emptied of the spectre of ultraliberalism, to harmonize the relationship between man and nature. A very important man, Frantz Fanon, said these words so current: "Each generation must, in a relative opacity, face its mission: to fulfill or betray it". Let's not betray our collective duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u128	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u129	This bill is often presented as a legislative translation of the proposals made by the Citizen Climate Convention. I would naturally like to commend the work done by these 150 citizens, who are engaged in an unprecedented and useful democratic process, but I would like to stress that this text is above all a unique opportunity to translate into our law the ecological ambition expected by the vast majority of our citizens. This Sunday, again, there were tens of thousands of people on the street calling for a real commitment to climate change. They are right: the climate, the reduction of emissions, the transformation of our production, distribution and consumption patterns, for how many years have we been talking about it, without acting as much as we should? Our fellow citizens have long integrated these concerns and many are engaged in everyday life at home, in the way they manage their business, in the community, in order to make a real difference. I am thinking in particular today of our youth, who have been at the forefront of this awareness; It warns us with emphasis on the need to transform our models...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u130	The old ones, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u131	... without always being heard – it has sometimes even been mocked or looked up. I am therefore delighted today that our Assembly has to decide on a text which, if it cannot claim to meet the challenge of the century alone, brings its share of significant and sometimes crucial advances. There are, of course, upset ambitions, slowness, lacks, but I believe that we can still draft a real climate law. National representation must contribute to raising the level of ambition and scope of this bill, which, as it stands, will already change part of the daily lives of our fellow citizens. It contains many measures that I welcome, including the creation of a climate label, the regulation of the advertising of fossil fuels, the ban on the sale of the most polluting vehicles in 2030, the ban on domestic flights when an alternative railway solution of less than two and a half hours exists, the objectives for reducing the artificialisation of the soil or the ban on renting thermal coves. I fully agree with these guidelines and welcome the work carried out by our fellow rapporteurs. If the course is good, the rhythm is not always good; on several topics, I think it is necessary to go faster, further. This is the meaning of several of the amendments I have tabled in order, for example, to extend the regulation of the advertising of fossil fuels to highly polluting products in order to combat greenwashing, to make it compulsory to set up a choice of vegetarian menus in public canteens, to protect remarkable trees or to develop more sustainable mobilitys, such as cycling. I would like to highlight a number of issues today. The first relates to major land-use planning projects. The abandonment of projects such as that of EuropaCity in Val-d'Oise is legitimate: building mega-business centres on agricultural land is an ecological nonsense, a historical nonsense. If our territories deserve to be developed, economic development does not excuse everything. In Argenteuil, in my constituency, I would like to pay tribute to the mobilization of citizens and associations who have been campaigning for years for the cessation of the Cap Héloïse project, which would result in the destruction of a municipal hall, dear to Argenteuillais, and the concreteization of Heloïse Island. This natural area to be protected, in flood zone, is part of our cultural heritage, it was once painted by Monet and now houses remarkable and centuries-old trees, which must be protected; All these reasons should be sufficient to justify the implementation of this megacomplex project elsewhere. Industrial wastelands exist, let's start by occupying them before disfiguring the little nature we have left. The crisis that we are going through must lead us to re-examine tomorrow's development models, and this bill must allow us to endorse the fact that this type of project no longer belongs to our time – that is the meaning of many of the amendments that I will be defending in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u132	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u133	I stress, however, that the abandonment of this type of project should not leave room for emptiness. That is why I also propose that the law make it mandatory to conduct a territorial consultation to build an alternative project or projects that take into account the environmental, economic, territorial and social dimensions. Since the abandonment of EuropaCity, the Valdoisians have not seen the beginning of a new perspective for their territory: this too must be changed. The second point I would like to address is that of air quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u134	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u135	[[Mr. Eric Bothorel applauds]] In Ile-de-France, for example, air pollution is of great concern. If the creation of low-emission areas under the bill is a step forward, I propose that the threshold be lowered to 100,000.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u136	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u137	The day after the report of the Citizens' Convention was submitted to the executive in June, I asked the Prime Minister here about the need to extend the democratic momentum of the Citizens' Convention. Our group then proposed the creation of a commission to examine the recommendations of citizens and to draft a bill. We thought that the representatives of the people were, of course, the best able to take over from this unprecedented exercise of participatory democracy; Above all, we wanted to prevent the executive from passing on to the caviar or mill the most ambitious measures proposed by the citizens' collective. Many of these proposals had already been defended on these benches in the context of the review of finance laws, the mobility guidance law, the circular economy law or the energy-climate law, but they had been systematically rejected by the Government and its majority. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Our fear that the Government would do nothing, or not much, of the proposals made by the Convention was therefore legitimate. By excluding from the start three proposals, including the introduction of a dividend tax, the President of the Republic set the tone, favouring the breath of the wind from below, the breath of the wind from above, which makes the powerful feel reassured. The ministers had quickly followed suit, burying in the course of the declarations the reduction of VAT on train tickets, the increase in eco-contribution on air tickets, the actual obligation to renovate housing, the regulation of advertising on highly polluting products, the taking into account of the weight of the vehicle in the car malus, the introduction of a moratorium on 5G, and many other proposals which would be too long to list. So today we cannot pretend to be surprised by the emptiness of the text that you are presenting to us. The fact is that this text is sorely lacking an assumed trajectory, public perspectives, historical ambition! It took you nine months, which is equivalent to the time it took for the Citizens' Convention to build its project, to break it down, by slamming or sweetening, by their postponement in four, seven, or even thirty years, the measures that would enable our country to meet its climate commitments. This bill is, in the end, only a mere dress-up exercise – of undressing should I say – that resulted in an unidentified political object, on which the work of sape was continued by the special commission, which declared 25 per cent of the amendments inadmissible, first of all those aimed at giving the text a little consistency, or at re-establishing proposals from the Citizens' Convention. These amendments have been declared unrelated to the text, a text which, however, is itself unrelated to the voluntarism required by the climate emergency. Of the approximately 420 amendments adopted by the committee, almost 380 came from members of the majority government: far from me the idea of seeing there the sign that you want to lock up the debate and forbid parliamentarians to take their responsibilities in order to prolong the democratic momentum set in motion by the Citizens' Convention! Congratulations, though. You have succeeded in making a double blow in democratic denial, adding to contempt for participatory democracy and the work of our fellow citizens contempt for representative democracy! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The truth is, you want to close any debate, in the hope of ending this damn Citizens' Convention as soon as possible, which has become too cumbersome for you. And at the end of the day you reveal the portrait of a majority tetanized by the fear of the economic and, above all, financial consequences of this work for the holders of capital, a tetanized majority, or rather "titanicized", like the passengers of the ship who were forgotten in drunkenness, rather than putting all their forces together to avoid disaster!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u139	The day after the exercise, Emmanuel Macron, had committed himself, let us recall, to submit without filter the proposals formulated by the 150 citizens drawn by lot. But they took their work so much to heart that they put you at the foot of the wall...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u140	Three out of ten!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u141	... and what was originally meant to be nothing but a fair value, an instrument at the service of your communication, turned into a programmatic foundation on which you are in no way prepared to build anything, because it would mean that the State would finally assume its responsibilities, all its responsibilities, with regard to investment, the conditioning of aid to enterprises, by defining obligations and proclaiming prohibitions. The text you are proposing bears the stigma of this refusal. Everywhere, the Citizens' Convention provided for obligations and prohibitions. However, when it comes to advertising or energy renovation, you substitute volunteerism and sectoral regulatory rates when you do not use the false leak of experiments. Wherever we might expect the state to regulate, you may refer to the communes or to the regions, proclaiming that you are working towards decentralization – it has a good back! – and the territorialisation of public policies, even in disregard of territorial equality and national solidarity. You are entrusting the responsibility for the success of the ecological transition to our citizens, who are seen as consumers, businesses and communities. The State, on the other hand, is to the absent subscribers. It appears only as the director responsible for distributing the roles without taking on any responsibility, nor taking on any responsibility, and above all no financial responsibility. Control of public spending takes precedence over investment in the ecological transition! Major public investments will be expected, whether in the energy renovation of housing, in training, in research or in transport infrastructure. Nothing new under the sun, you'll tell me. Nothing new, except that the temperature continues to rise. You fall, once again with this text in the ways we know you: the methodical organization of public impotence, and the abundant display of cosmetic measures. Unless you're hit by Norman cabinet syndrome: it's full to crack, but you're afraid to move it. The fact is all the more distressing as the health and social crisis that we are going through makes our fellow citizens more than ever thirst for a profound transformation of our economic and social model, the desire for a resolute response to environmental challenges, in justice and solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – Mr. François-Michel Lambert also applauds]] This collective and mobilising project is still not on track. It is hardly surprising because, as Lacan liked to say, one never finds in the hat of the prestidigitator only the rabbit he put there. And you will agree that this rabbit is small, very small, very small.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u142	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u143	Minister, this afternoon, you started your remarks by talking about a new civilization: what an emphasis for such a small law! In Macronie, it's the package that's important, not the gift.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u144	No one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u145	Who can imagine that these sixty-nine articles will enable us to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050? Who can imagine that this text will meet the expectations of the French and youth? Your ambition is not the fight against climate change, but the upcoming presidential elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u147	And you're not?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u148	Since the beginning of the afternoon, you have stood in balance between those who want more ecology and those who fear that you will destabilize the economy. In fact, your majority is elsewhere and asks you to pretend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u150	The bill is a tote that compiles prohibitions, anecdotal measures, and permanent avoidance of the necessary measures. Let's go back to the beginning of the bill. You're hiding behind the Citizens' Convention. Legitimacy in one country is in this House, not in the forums organised by the Head of State – but either the question of Parliament's divestiture is another debate. A first question, Minister: Can you give us an exhaustive list of the 150 members of the Citizen's Convention, their declarations of interest and the details of the drawing of lots?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u151	Ah! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u152	[["Oh! »on the banks of the GDRandSOC groups]] Of the four representatives from the Pyrénées-Atlantiques – I say four, because they spoke in the local press to say that they belonged to the Citizens' Convention – two have a well-known political commitment, the third is employed by a large oil group and the fourth is an association on biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u153	Isn't there a butcher?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u154	In terms of probability, your draw is magic! Let's go back to the text: sixty-nine articles, twenty-one prohibitions in the original bill. It's a prohibition text. This is the worst way to mobilize the French. He forbids, he never encourages! Where is research, where is scientific progress? What are the major infrastructure projects, for example to get out of the road? Of all this, nothing. You forbid neons inside stores as if it were going to save the planet. You are embarking on the Bashing flight without measuring its consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u155	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u156	You remove air links when there is a rail alternative in less than two and a half hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u158	This measure has a ridiculous environmental impact for considerable economic and social consequences: the targeted lines account for only 0.04% of emissions from the transport sector and 0.02% of total emissions from France. The problem is not just the dismantling of airport infrastructure, and you know that; The problem is the fate of our aviation industry and the green aircraft planned for 2035. We could have imagined provisions to encourage biofuels in air transport, or even an opposition on your part, Madam Minister, to the abandonment by Air France of domestic lines in favour of its subsidiary Transavia whose fleet, which is more polluting, is composed of only Boeing. But there's nothing. Your majority is surprised in the press that the elected representatives of Occitanie and Nouvelle-Aquitaine are reacting. But aeronautics is 22% of our industrial employment, almost 1,300 subcontractors and nearly 150,000 direct and indirect jobs. You will tell us that a major effort will have to be made to convert. But, Madam Minister, not at this time, not on such a large volume of employment and not with such a strong haste – the removal of the lines we are talking about is March 2022. You will apologise and tell us: it is only two hours thirty and a few connections. But the socialist elected representatives of these regions have written to you. As you know, when we enter these provisions, we enter into a slide strategy where, after two thirty hours, some will say four hours, five hours, six hours, and internal air links will be prohibited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u159	Ah, the plural left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u160	Be consistent. Do you plan to relaunch the LGV – high-speed line – South-West project? Do you plan to remove the 3,500 diesel trainsets and replace them with more environmentally protective trainsets? What do you propose to ensure better rail mesh and strengthen small lines? What is the situation in the province – the rapporteur-general knows – of the SNCF and the railways today? [["Congratulation! »on the benches of the LR group]] I will not vote for your bill on land, which treats the Paris region and the rural territories in the same way. I am the Member of Parliament for an electoral district of 130,000 inhabitants with 177 communes, the smallest of which is home to 40 inhabitants. In a large number of rural municipalities, obtaining two or three urban planning certificates per mandate is a feat: your administration opposes all projects, even the most modest ones. And you add to that constraints by treating territories in an undifferentiated way! And what about the provisions prohibiting commercial advertising? The bill provides for a penalty of 30,000 euros for those who promote fossil fuels. Do you know what the penalty is for those who visit terrorist sites in France? 30000 euros as well. By means of communication, this result is achieved. There is no more value scale. I would like to thank Valérie Rabault, president of the Socialist and Related Group, who allowed me to express, in particular on air traffic, a position which is not that of the four members of our group who are part of the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u161	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u162	Madam Minister, once, when we were in the same group...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u163	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u164	... you sometimes spoke and I disagreed with you. It was under the previous legislature – you have already forgotten that you were part of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u165	No! Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u166	You were not a member of the Socialist Group? All right. The press will check.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u167	No, I was Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u168	She made all the bands, but not this one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u169	You were related, then. I said that I had a different position than the four members of the special commission; On the other hand, I have spoken on behalf of all the Members of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, including those who share your opinion, or in any case who are members of your majority. There are differences between the members of our group, but none of us disputes that France must walk on both feet: social and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u170	And a little economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u171	[[Applause on the SOC and LR panels]] But what is missing in your text, as said earlier Elsa Faucillon is the ability to open up the protection of the environment to those of the most popular, the most modest classes who need an ecology that is not punitive, but mobilising. Today, you are proposing a text that has no other ambition than to go until the presidential election and to serve as an ecological crutch for the candidate Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u172	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u173	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u174	The obvious: a double demand from the French "for more participatory democracy and a fairer ecological transition", to resume the introduction of the explanatory memorandum of your bill. This seems to me to be an excellent starting assumption. Unfortunately, it was not the result of a just intuition of our globalized leaders, but the message carried with strength by the deep-rooted French and relayed at its beginning by the yellow vest movement. With this assumption, you could have, and I even think you should have, interrogated the French directly. Rather than establishing a quinquennium of perpetual campaigning and pretending to listen to the French through a big debate and a falsely democratic Citizens' Convention, you should have asked the French about ecology. They are, perhaps more than on any other subject, directly concerned, because they are concerned with their health, their safety and, more generally, their living environment. It must be acknowledged that we, French, are privileged in this field: we live in a temperate climate, we have a great diversity of ecosystems, thanks in particular to the ultramarine territories, and we can, every day, contemplate harmonious landscapes. All of this we must preserve, but I doubt that we can achieve it thanks to a punitive ecology without borders. On the contrary, we think, as Hervé Juvin so well says, that ecology should be the science of the joy of living,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u175	She's incarnating him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u176	... for French people who feel responsible for territories that they have received from previous generations and that they will pass on to their children and grandchildren. It was this idea that led me to propose a referendum of fifteen questions, so that the French would directly appropriate these subjects and give our leaders the political orientations to be implemented. Today, in the ecological field, the French have only one choice: on the one hand, they suffer the globalists who impose on them free trade treaties and wind turbines and who strive to eliminate any form of protection and, on the other, they suffer the oukases of anti-everything ideologues who see man as an enemy of nature. They must even undergo the camp of "at the same time", which manages to synthesize these two extremisms. We believe, as I have already had the opportunity to say, that what is needed must be made desirable. Yes, preserving our environment is a necessity. By not changing an iota of the ultraliberal economic model that shows its limits every day while threatening French standards and prohibitions, you make ecology a constraint instead of making it a desire. Do you believe for a moment that our compatriots do not wish to be protected from pollution, nor to have access to healthy food, low-polluting and cheap energy, nor to contemplate preserved natural landscapes? In fact, it is not very difficult to make preservation of the environment a desire. So, since you don't want to change an economic model – or perhaps just don't have the courage – you're trying to fix its effects on the environment. It is always easier to reduce the consequences rather than tackle the cause. To top it all out, your policy is of great cynicism. One example: when you advocate electric cars, are you aware that this is only possible at the cost of mass pollution in countries with rare earths?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u177	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u178	The electric car in Paris is only possible with tons of ammonium sulphate in Baotou soil. Globalists relocate everything, even pollution! I say this very clearly: no fight for the preservation of the environment can be won until we change an economic model, until we restore the borders that allow us to fight against the greed of certain financiers, as long as we do not prefer the short circuits that favour the local producer over the producer at the end of the world and as long as mass consumption is the norm or even the objective. You know, I'll have the opportunity, in the coming months, to develop my vision of ecology...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u179	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u180	... and the necessary protection of our common home, a vision based on a localist model, protected by borders, and harmoniously distributing activities on the territory. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Unfortunately, the measures in this text, which my colleagues Meizonnet and Bilde will comment in detail later, will probably not change much about the ongoing climate change. Even more problematic, some very restrictive measures may lead to a little more distance the French from these fundamental issues. Let's make ecology a desire more than a constraint, let's make this science a lever for tomorrow's growth, let's make this fight a federative project! I am confident that then the French will adhere to it massively. A referendum on specific issues therefore clearly seems to me to be the first step in this struggle to preserve our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u181	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u182	To start a debate on the climate and resilience bill in the context of the current crisis should be a source of hope, as this should open up prospects and allow us to project ourselves into the future and into action, towards a positive horizon that allows us to act for the planet, an offensive horizon that allows us to take over our destiny. That's what I expected from the approach you took, that's what I expected from the incredible investment of the 150 citizens who participated in the Citizen's Climate Convention. Expectations were high; The disappointment is only greater. Of the sixty-nine articles of the bill tabled in the National Assembly, few are likely to have a concrete and immediate effect on the climate. Above all, no article presents an overall vision with objectives to be achieved. Taking the subject through the little tip of the lorgnette is not motivating and even less effective. What about the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, deployed for the decade 2010? It has five pillars, one of which relates to sustainable development. Since the year 2020 is over, it would have been appropriate to provide us with an assessment, Minister. We have not achieved any indicators of sustainable development! With regard to the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which was to be reduced by 20% compared to 1990, 12 countries out of the 27 EU members achieved this target, but France did not. By comparison, the data provided by Eurostat show that France's greenhouse gas emissions account for 83% of their 1990 level, when this rate fell to 70% in Germany. France is also lagging behind in renewable energy, with only 17% of its energy consumption: this rate places our country in the last third of EU countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u183	Just like the vaccination!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u184	Many have said before me, the urgency is twofold: it concerns the climate, but also our own responsibilities since we are unable to deliver on the commitments we make while others succeed. Delivering on its commitments is based on three pillars: setting clear goals, sharing them equally clearly and devoting the necessary resources to them. Minister, your text is failing on these three pillars. The objectives are neither clearly defined nor clearly shared and the means are not sufficient. In addition to the impact of the new recovery plan, the Institute of Climate Economics has assessed the need for additional public investment to meet the trajectory of the second carbon budget 2019-2023 to between €7 billion and €9 billion per year. The French Economic Observatory (OFCE), for its part, estimates that these additional needs range between EUR 9 billion and EUR 19 billion, or about 0.9% of GDP. But there are no figures in your bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u185	It's not a finance bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u186	At least you're sure to avoid contradictions. An interesting approach would be based on the causes of greenhouse gas emissions depending on the use of energy. One can rely on the three-thirds rule: a small third is due to housing and the tertiary sector, a third is due to transport and the last third is due to industry. A simple and legible approach could aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by each of these three thirds. Let us start with housing: in your bill, you propose to include, from 2028 onwards, the 4.8 million housing units whose energy performance is evaluated as F or G in the category of indecent housing. We agree, but you are presenting this measure as a ban on renting it from 2028: that is not true! By refusing to talk about financing in the bill, you are stalemate on the essential subject of energy renewal, that of the rest to be borne by households. We have provided concrete answers to this problem in the bill tabled by Boris Vallaud and Jean-Louis Bricout, with the climate premium consisting of a mixture of grants and repayable advances. When you subsidize 30% of energy renovation work but the home cannot afford 70% of its cost, you know that the household will not hire them. With this real climate bonus, we would create the necessary drive effect. So you're not developing a new housing strategy, which still contributes 30% of greenhouse gas emissions. Above all, you do not provide any new financial means. You are going to tell me about the recovery plan, but the amounts committed, especially for social housing, do not even compensate for the money you have taken with the reform of housing subsidies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u188	The EUR 2 billion of aid to individuals over two years for the renovation of their homes represents less than the amount of the energy transition tax credit. As for the EUR 4 billion over two years to renovate public buildings such as schools, this is the only positive point in the recovery plan. Let us now turn to the second third, that of transport. Whether it is for air transportation or freight transportation, the main measures of the bill are reports, and they are in practice referred to the next Parliament. The original bill contained no measures on rail transport nor on inland waterway transport; and you declared our amendments on these matters inadmissible. You are stalemate in structural areas, where action would help to reduce CO emissions and improve the daily lives of our citizens. Thus, on private vehicles, you put forward two proposals: to impose new restrictions through the extension of the system of low-emission mobility zones and to make the introduction of lanes reserved for public transport vehicles compulsory on a trial basis for a period of three years. We support this experiment under Article 28. Apart from these two measures, there is nothing. Nothing about the electric cars on which Germany puts the package. I like to talk about figures: your recovery plan provides €205 million to "accelerate the deployment of electric charging stations". In short, you do things half way: you want to speed up the deployment but you don't want to do it. What about our German friends? They are investing €3 billion – to bring it back to €205 million – to set up 1 million terminals on the basis of a plan agreed with all car manufacturers in the country. Germany has a real ambition for electric cars and gives impetus to the creation of a complete ecosystem. Nothing like that in your stimulus plan, nothing like that in your bill. On freight, we have for many years been expressing the desire for a modal shift in the transport of goods from road to inland waterways. It is not enough to call him for his wishes: with 8500 of the 38,000 kilometres of inland waterways in Europe, France has the longest network on the continent, but it is one of the countries that makes the least use of its resources. River transport accounts for less than 3% of the tonne-kilometres transported, mainly cereals and heavy materials. Your bill completely ignores this major issue, which could have a significant impact on greenhouse gas emissions. On the ports, your silence is guilty. French ports compete with large European ports. The port of Rotterdam alone emits 20% of its country's greenhouse gases as a result of oil refining and petrochemical production, but a reflection on CO capture is being conducted in order to reduce emissions by half by 2030. These inventions are motivating and ambitious: if we do not position ourselves by developing a public policy, the French ports will be competing and will no longer be able to display a good carbon balance when the inevitable more stringent standards come into force. Here too, you do not say or propose anything. This text does not include any new measures to support investments in rail transport, in particular for the regeneration of the rail network, its modernisation and the renewal of rolling stock. We would need a plan of at least EUR 3 billion a year. Recall that of the EUR 4.75 billion announced for the railway in the recovery plan, only EUR 650 million corresponds to fresh money when at least 3 billion is needed. You have no chance of reviving the train with so few means, Germany again making an opposite choice to yours. My colleague David Habib spoke of air transport, but let me return to it in my turn. You propose that domestic flights of less than two and a half hours be prohibited when the train offers a solution: we support this position. However, it would have been smart to think about the future. The aviation industry employs 200,000 people in France, one third of the sector's jobs in Europe; It generates more than EUR 50 billion in turnover, 85% of which is exported. It is one of the few channels with a positive trade balance – around 35 billion euros, which is far from negligible. I do not recall these figures because I am from Occitanie, a region where we obviously support aviation, but because the term "ecological transition" contains the word "transition", which comes from the Latin transire which means "go beyond". So it's a dynamic and not just a point of arrival as you think. This transition takes the green plane and experiments like that launched by Airbus on 18 March. Airbus made a flight with 100% durable fuel thanks to an engine designed with Rolls-Royce. It is this dynamic that must be set in motion and valued, but your bill does not breathe a word of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u189	Recovery plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u190	Finally, the last third relates to our ability to develop an industry that produces greener electricity. In your bill, you propose that the national objectives for the development of the various renewable energy sectors, set by multi-annual programming, be set out by decree in regional objectives; the objectives set in parallel by the regional schemes would be made compatible with them. You are taking a top-down, hyper-technocratic approach that is inappropriate to the reality of the territories, which will not create the necessary conditions for the long-awaited rise of renewable energies in our country, for which – as I recall – we are in the last third of the European countries. In the biomethane sector, the Government has chosen in the recovery plan to support hydrogen: we approve the launch of a hydrogen sector, but we advocate for its structuring in order to avoid the situation of photovoltaics where France buys panels in China. On the other hand, the construction of a hydrogen pipeline should not mean the abandonment of a biomethane pipeline, since the first is on a national scale when the second is intended to create value added locally. But you have given up: it is true that producing biomethane costs a little more now, but unlike hydrogen, there is already a national distribution infrastructure which it would be a great pity not to value.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u192	According to ADEME, the global deposit available for methanization by 2030 is estimated at 56 terawatt hours. Biomethane also increases the value added of farmers' farms, reduces the use of chemical fertilizers and significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Government has given up its efforts to boost and support this sector, on which the stimulus plan and the bill are deadlocking. Our country has 100,000 mills, of which 25,000 are equipped with electric turbines: I will defend with my colleagues several amendments in support of water mills. One of them aims to resolve the difficulties of applying the law of 24 February 2017 concerning the derogations granted to mills for the fulfilment of the obligations of ecological continuity. The Act provided that all existing water mills at the time of its entry into force could benefit from a derogation from the obligation of ecological continuity of watercourses, provided that they were equipped to produce electricity. This exemption was to apply even if the electrical equipment project was initiated after the Act came into force. This derogation was intended to reconcile the objective of restoring the ecological continuity of rivers with that of preserving the heritage represented by mills, while allowing the development of microelectricity. The Ministry of Environmental Transition has, however, adopted a very different interpretation from that advocated in the House and enshrined in the law. Indeed, the Ministry considers that only mills already equipped to produce hydropower at the time of the entry into force of the law are affected by the derogation: and the reading of the minutes of parliamentary debates, to which I invite each and every one of you, shows that the legislator wanted to integrate the mills already existing but equipped after the promulgation of the law. We will therefore defend an amendment to clarify the meaning of the 2017 law so that its application is consistent with the intention of the legislator. Minister, when we take the time to seriously identify what could advance the ecological transition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u193	Mills?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u194	...we enter an exciting universe of intelligence, research, ambition for the future: in short, the opposite of your bill. This exercise is motivating and I do not understand the failure in which you have locked yourself in. Finally, I would like to return to two points. In your bill, you never talk about money, as if it were taboo,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u195	It's not a PLF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u196	... except in Article 30 to remove the exemption on professional diesel. What's crazy is that, for fear of reactions, you probably don't give an amount in your 600-page impact study. It's delusional and irresponsible. It turns out that this amount is well known to Members who sit on the Finance Committee: it is between EUR 1.3 billion and EUR 1.6 billion per year. This amount is higher than that of the ecotax. Let us be clear: I am in favour of the end of this exemption, but not as you do, not in catini, thinking that no one will notice! You do it without compensation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u197	What catimini?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u198	Yeah, I just gave the amount, nobody mentioned it before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u199	What catimini?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u200	[[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] No one had mentioned the amount before, my dear colleague, I invite you to reread the debates of the special committee. Above all, you do so without concrete compensation, which would allow carriers to buy less polluting trucks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u201	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u202	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u203	In fact, you are doing exactly what your predecessor did with the increase in energy taxes, voted by the majority in September 2017 and which triggered the movement of yellow vests in November 2018. Minister, it is not because you do not give the amounts that economic actors will not feel the effects of a measure. The numbers always quantify a reality that you refuse to see, or may want to hide. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, one last word about ecocide. In your bill, you make it an offence. In the bill defended by our colleague Christophe Bouillon, we made it a crime. The ecocide is a crime, Madam Minister; It is your responsibility that it be recognized as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u204	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u205	[[Applause on the banks of the SOC,FI and GDR groups. – Mr François-MichelLambertapplauditedalso]] By limiting it to a crime, you're running away from responsibility, but that's a bit of the spirit of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u206	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u207	While the Citizens' Climate Convention had nine months to draft its proposals, the democratically elected representatives of the nation had only 45 hours of legislative time scheduled to debate the text, yet far from being completed. Significant shortcomings in the impact assessment were raised; the sustainability of air transport measures, for example, is not the subject of any analysis despite the context of a health crisis whose impact on this sector is strong. The Council of State also underlines the lack of justification for certain measures and the weakness of the impact assessment concerning the competitive economic consequences of the ban on certain domestic flights. As far as extension projects or airport creation work are concerned, the impact assessment is silent on projects which may continue and those which will have to be decided, as well as on the implementing arrangements which are crucial to assess the consequences of this measure. Both in the Council of State and in the Assembly, you confuse speed and haste. The administrative court itself states in its opinion that the short time allowed for the study of the text has somewhat forced its hand and has not allowed it to carry out its task in good conditions. This is simply not acceptable. The legislative process, which includes the consultative stages, is not to be taken lightly. In substance, several measures are more like a specification motivated by an electoral agenda and submitted to our study by some ideological groups than a set of legislative provisions whose purpose would be to serve the common good. The ecologist who is reluctant to artificialize the soils gives a glaring subsidy to concrete mosques. As you have only the precautionary principle in your mouth, you are calling on our country to take a forced step to promote so-called renewable energies that have not proved their worth. Neither the current electricity storage technology nor the efficiency of renewable energies are able to meet the energy needs of a country such as France. The doxa that wants renewable energies to be the future of humanity, without greenhouse gas emissions or pollution, is a myth. There are two ways to address climate issues: declining or technological investment, innovation, and individual responsibility. The extraction of the rare earths necessary for the operation of so-called renewable energies is a complex, highly polluting process. The processes of extraction, purification and refinement are very harmful and have already led to massive exoduses, due to the pollution of soil and water by chemical solvents. The pollution caused by these energies is higher than that of the generation of electricity by a nuclear power plant. Their promotion is in fact the result of political motivations. A comparison of life cycle analyses of nuclear power plants, wind and photovoltaics shows that a nuclear power plant emits less than 10 grams of CO per kilowatt hour, compared with 14 for wind and 60 for photovoltaics. Research and innovation have made it possible to build EPR reactors – European pressurized reactors – which consume 7% to 15% less than conventional reactors and can use recycled fuel, thus reducing the amount of waste. In fact, according to an Odoxa poll, 59% of French people say they are in favour of nuclear energy. As for electric cars, life cycle analysis shows that the industrial process is three to four times more energy efficient than that of a normal vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u208	No, that's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u209	They use electricity supplied by gas and coal-fired power plants and thus produce greenhouse gases. The limits for their loading are increasing and so-called renewable energies are not enough to feed them. It is therefore also our energy sovereignty that is at stake. Restricted deadlines, insufficient impact study, ideological propaganda, complacency of the text with certain forms of pollution, which discredits the whole of government policy on this subject, not to mention the joke of the referendum: one year before the presidential elections, the majority suddenly discovers itself a soul of democrat, after having ruled by ordinances for more than a year. This text promotes repression, part of an approach of rupture rather than ecological transition, thus choosing the best way to make environmental effort unpopular. It completes an economy already on the ground and sacrifices democracy on the altar of ecology, thus contravening the values of this country. That is why it is not desirable to see it incorporate our positive law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u210	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u211	The bill that drives us today, and for a few more days, has a history. The law was to be beautiful, to reconcile the French with their representatives and with a certain idea of politics, and to fulfil the legitimate aspirations of the French in social, environmental and democratic matters. The road was, however, fraught with obstacles: born in the tumult of the yellow vest crisis, this text is the result of a democratic process that is certainly innovative, but untasteful, ranging from the great national debate to the restitution of the proposals of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate – made up of 150 citizens drawn by lot – to this text. Unabouti, because the complaint books of the great national debate have never been returned, preventing the national representation from knowing in detail the wishes of the citizens. Inabouti still, because the Government had announced to take over 146 of the 149 proposals of the Citizens' Convention, to finally propose a Timorese bill, by granting itself much more than the three jokers initially announced. Lastly, it was not possible, for if the great national debate and the passage through deliberative democracy were to form the basis for a wide-ranging democratic debate, the outcome in Parliament was not up to date, since the choice had been made of the scheduled legislative time for the examination of the text. Return to the people, without giving them their full sovereignty; Citizens' proposals left aside; promises sometimes forgotten. The 150 citizens drawn by lot were not mistaken in awarding the 2.5 out of 10 mark only to the bill submitted by the Government. The French were not mistaken either: they mobilized massively throughout France this Sunday to remind the Government that the course towards the ecological transition must be taken more than ever. The initial ambition is known: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, compared to 1990. Does this text provide the means to do so? While this text has a history, it is especially important to make history, as France was able to do in 2015 with COP21 and the Paris agreements, which marked an important global step in the fight against global warming. This history can only be written if this text gives itself the full means to achieve the objectives set, and above all, if it seeks to link climate imperative and social justice, while taking into account the realities, potentialities and fragility of the territories and sectors concerned. In order to effectively bring ecology into the lives of the French, none of them should be left behind; on the long and winding path towards the energy and ecological transition, we must embark them all, without exception. This will be the thread of the Socialist Group's proposals and related to this text: less carbon and more justice. We will insist on the social aspect. We have been defending these issues for a long time: I am thinking in particular of the energy transition or the energy renewal of housing. Too often, the Government and its majority have ignored our social and environmental proposals; I am thinking, among other things, of the bill to create a climate premium and to launch a major housing renovation plan to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, which was rejected by the same assembly. These proposals, we also formulate them throughout the territory: our local elected representatives develop green mobility and make the canteen a tool to combat food insecurity and a place to translate our political choices for the environment. If all this is possible at the local level, we propose to continue on this path nation-wide. The French do not want an ecology with symbols and sanctions, but expect their representatives to have strong and bold political choices, taking into account social and territorial realities. However, there is much to be feared that the provisions of this text are more symbolic than audacious, since the very critical opinions given on the draft law by the Council of State, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council or the High Climate Council are not such as to dispel concerns about the usefulness of the text as presented to us. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The members of the Socialist and Related Group will propose to increase the ambitions of the bill, in order to effectively meet the commitments made in the area of carbon neutrality; We will not avoid any subject. Madam Minister, you have called for the "ecology to be removed from the divides"; You said that you would not accept any reduction in ambition in the parliamentary review. We'll take your word. If you really want to take all the French, it will go by listening carefully to the proposals from the whole House, without taboos or prejudices. It is essential that all the measures contained in the draft law, at the time of its final adoption, be marked by social justice, as not all territories, actors and citizens are equal in view of the consequences of the proposed solutions. The French will judge the spirit of responsibility of the Government and the honour of Parliament; They will appreciate if we have collectively been able to build an effective and just law for future generations and our common humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u212	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u213	That goes without saying: the fight against global warming requires the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. If some of the measures in this bill go in the right direction, such as those that promote better product labelling or soil protection, you're completely missing the CO reduction check. Worse, you are pursuing the absurd energy policy that the left led during the previous quinquennium. This bill could have been an ambitious plan, but there is nothing or almost nothing in it to promote localism, while half of the greenhouse gas emissions are linked to our imports, nothing or almost nothing to clean up transportation or to combat thermal colanders, while transportation and construction are the most polluting sectors. Instead, you're accumulating liberticide and bureaucratic measures with derisory effects on the carbon footprint. In short, it's a condensation of punitive ecology. As we debate a law that misses its target, the taxpayer's money continues to subsidise the dismantling of France's main asset in the fight against global warming: in the name of a false ecology, our taxes are dilapidated to finance the dismemberment of our electricity mix, yet decarbonized at more than 90%. Thanks to the alliance of nuclear and hydraulic productions, the French benefit from one of the least polluting electricity in Europe, the cheapest, the safest, without risk of blackout. The delirious targets for multi-annual energy programming include 40% renewable electricity production by 2030; To reach them, you are imposing more wind turbines and photovoltaic panels in our regions. This unconscious policy has doubled households' bills in ten years, and the only contracts signed before 2017 have already cost 121 billion euros of public money. By ideology, you continue to finance wind turbines that produce only 20 to 25% of the time; This intermittentity destabilizes the power grid and must be compensated by pilotable energies, such as nuclear power. Yet you want to reduce the share of it. What will replace him? Gas or coal, as in Germany: you can see that you are in the most complete contradiction. In addition, the proliferation of wind turbines disfigures our landscapes, creates massive concrete and raises serious public health concerns. For them to produce 15 to 20% of electricity by 2028, they will have to almost double their number, which amounts to spending more than 90 billion euros. For the same price, nuclear power produces five times more, with equally clean, more stable and more sustainable electricity. Even the Court of Auditors denounces this aberrant gabegie. Instead of sacrificing the nuclear industry and its jobs, defend this national industry that the world envys us – French programmes in the United Kingdom and China are the best demonstration of this. If you are really committed to the development of renewable energy, why do you privatize the first of these, by robbing the management of 400 water dams, financed by the taxpayer? This is not surprising, since Emmanuel Macron has already weakened France's main decarbonised energy by closing the Fessenheim power plant and selling Alstom to General Electric – a real scandal. This is not surprising, since you are about to dismantle EDF, with the Hercule project, which will delay the fight against global warming. You will dismember the world's second largest electricity producer and one of the world's leaders in low-carbon electricity, which also contributes to the influence of France and guarantees our energy sovereignty. We believe that EDF should not be dismantled, nor that hydroelectric dams should be privatized; We believe that public money should be concentrated on the renovation of the existing nuclear power plant and that the new generation of this energy should be developed; we believe that we need to invest in research on waste treatment and on future energies, such as hydrogen; We believe that transport and building must be cleared, localism should be promoted and, above all, the French should not be bothered. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] On Friday 8 January, RTE, the Electricity Transmission Network, encouraged the French to reduce their electricity consumption because of the cold, for fear of a blackout. This is a very modest foretaste of what awaits them if we let this Government, or the left, continue its policy. Ecology is everyone's business, but it's taken hostage by a handful of ideologues. We need to get back to common sense, pragmatic ecology as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u214	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-29-O1219.u215	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government, Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for a law to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention, Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The meeting is adjourned.
