ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Régis Juanico and others establishing a fund to compensate the victims of the covid-19 (No 3723, 3877).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u2	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u3	Behind the record of the ever-increasing pandemic, behind the ever-increasing numbers are real human tragedies and distress situations: deaths in families, people who have lost everything and cannot return to work because of fatigue that never disappears. Personal stories and forms of illness are different, but all of these victims, regardless of their professional status or mode of contamination, must benefit from a form of recognition, now absent, from the nation. The State does not recognize responsibility for these victims. In fact, there are obvious shortcomings, such as the absence of a management and anticipation plan, shortages of medical equipment and health protection, the lack of access to hospital care for all patients, the lack of measures for mass and rapid screening of the population and the Government's communication on the issue of wearing the mask justify the recognition of State responsibility and, consequently, the compensation of victims for national solidarity. As an example, the mission to inform on the impact, management and consequences in all its dimensions of the Coronavirus-covid-19 epidemic has established that no mask orders for the State Strategic Stock had been initiated between 30 October 2018 and 31 January 2020, when the health crisis began. The work of this fact-finding mission also highlighted the poor management of the health crisis in EHPAD during the first wave. While the increased risk to the elderly has been the subject of scientific consensus from the outset, decisions on EHPADs have followed the same temporality as those on the general population: they have been too late in terms of the risks faced by residents. EHPADs have been hit very hard by the shortage of equipment: personal protective equipment such as gloves, FFP2 masks, glasses and blouses; medicines, treatments or equipment – oxygen, for example. This shortage has been compounded by the fact that EHPADs have been asked to set up covid-19 units within institutions, without always being equipped with the necessary medical equipment for the care of patients and individual protections for caregivers. Beyond the issue of State responsibility, there is an urgent need to realize the promise of compensation to the most serious victims of this terrible disease, in all their diversity. Finally, on 14 September 2020, the Government issued a decree automatically granting the status of a victim of an occupational disease to certain health-care personnel affected by a serious form of covid-19 which required oxygen or resulted in death. This first step was indispensable, but is it sufficient? By taking into account only pulmonary sequelae, the Government forgets all those who suffer temporary or permanent cardiac, neurological or cerebral sequelae. In addition, compensation for occupational disease is flat-rate and does not compensate for all the harm suffered by a victim or his successors. For example, in the event of the death of a civil servant recognized as an occupational disease, only the surviving spouse of a married couple can be compensated. Pacties and concubines are not considered to be rightholders. Thus, this recognition for health-care workers alone excludes all other categories of workers: the first trenches, mounted at the front during the health crisis, will have to submit to the traditional procedures, particularly complex, long and uncertain, of recognition of occupational diseases. The decree therefore excludes cashiers, law enforcement and security officers, firefighters, teachers, public or public cleanliness officers, garbagemen, postal workers, traders, roadmen and delivery agents, as well as residents of EHPAD. It does not cover persons whose activity in the workplace was maintained during the health crisis by their employer or because of the nature of their occupation: maintenance, shopping, preparation of orders in logistics centres, drivers and maintenance of continuous walking facilities, drivers and transport surveillance officers, etc. It does not cover all those responsible for holding polling stations in municipal elections – elected, voluntary assessors, municipal agents and deputy returning officers. It does not cover volunteers who have assisted hospital services or those who have assisted the poorest in the activities of solidarity associations. It does not take into account environmental victims infected within their own families by caregivers or employees working in contact with the public, carrying the virus without knowing it. For all these reasons, the bill that we are presenting to you this evening aims to create a fund dedicated to the compensation of all those who are experiencing temporary or permanent sequelae, as well as the beneficiaries of deceased persons of the covid-19. This compensation fund will be financed by a contribution from the State and the industrial accidents and occupational diseases branch of social security. While many frontline fighters have cured less serious forms of covid-19, others have spent days or weeks in artificial resuscitation and will retain lasting sequelae; Some of them even died of the covid-19. This fund will not forget any of the patients suffering from the serious forms of this disease and will provide a dignified, fair and prompt response – the files will be investigated in six months, regardless of the social coverage regime of the person, whether the person works in the private or the public, whether he or she is an independent, liberal profession or self-entrepreneur. You are not in favour of this bill, which offers a concrete solution to advance the recognition of victims: then what are you proposing? You do not propose any new devices; Worse, you are not trying to legislate on this: yesterday we discussed in the Chamber a motion for a resolution, tabled by the majority, which will have no binding force. If we have, of course, voted for it, the resolution will bring nothing more than a purely symbolic recognition. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, why did you propose this resolution rather than a law? Will the adoption of your resolution make it possible to take better account of and to better accompany a single victim of the covid-19? You know the answers to these questions, but you act as if nothing had happened, as if we had not placed on the agenda of our parliamentary niche the consideration of this bill, as if no concrete proposal had been made to move things forward, as if the Government had fulfilled its commitments since the beginning of this crisis. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Since we prefer operational solutions to incantations, since we affirm the urgency to act for the recognition of all the serious forms of covid-19 and of all the victims who suffered from it, since we know that the occupational disease system is inadequate to the challenges of this health crisis and that it constitutes a real journey for the combatant for tired and sick people, since we must finally move from words to deeds, we present this bill and invite you to vote with us tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u4	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u5	This evening we are considering the proposal for a law of the Socialist and Related Group establishing a fund to compensate the victims of the covid-19. For almost a year, we have been finding out every evening with seriousness the official count of the number of confirmed cases and of people who died as a result of the covid-19 in our country. We are all extremely sensitive. Behind these cold figures is the fact that time makes no less dramatic, the faces of thousands of victims, the pain of their families and the pain of their loved ones. There are also, for many infected people, the persistence of more or less severe sequelae that greatly affect their lives. Several months after contracting the virus, many patients say that they can no longer live as before, both shortness of breath, tiredness or pain that they experience make it difficult to perform certain everyday gestures. The various forms of so-called "long covid" are said to affect, according to a recent study, nearly eight out of ten patients in hospital. This syndrome also affects people who have suffered from mild forms of the disease: 30% to 40% of them still have persistent and resurgent symptoms several months after their infection. Covid-19 patients are more likely to develop psychological disorders as a result of their contamination. Less known sequelae result in an increased risk of anxiety disorders, difficulty finding sleep or even depression. Whether physical or psychological, the consequences of the virus on the health of people who have contracted it are evidence of the need to provide detailed support to the effects of the disease. This is the subject of the motion for a resolution to recognise and deal with the long-term complications of the covid-19 by our colleagues Patricia Mirallès and Julien Borowczyk, which we unanimously adopted yesterday. Because it calls on the Government to speed up research, hence knowledge of the complications of covid-19, because it proposes to establish a path of care adapted to people with persistent sequelae and because it aims to facilitate the recognition as an occupational disease of serious forms of infection of occupational origin – even if the path for this recognition is long – this motion for a resolution seems preferable to this bill. We wonder whether it is appropriate to create a financial compensation based on the asbestos victims' compensation fund to respond to a purely natural zoonosis that is not an industrial or institutional responsibility. Indemnifying the beneficiaries of the deceased, as provided for in the proposed law, would amount to recognizing a legal responsibility of the State in the spread of this epidemic, which is, it is necessary to recall, the entire world for the past year. While the expectation expressed by the sick is that of care and healing, we believe that it is necessary to focus our efforts on three points: strengthening scientific research to increase our knowledge of the long-term infections associated with this pathology; To inform and train the medical profession, in particular general practitioners, in the detection of these sequelae and to strengthen the provision of care; Finally, adapt the care path to better care for people with persistent symptoms. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Julien Borowczyk also applauds]] These guidelines are part of the motion for a resolution that our House adopted yesterday. Thus, while the group Acting together shares the ambition to build an effective and repairing device to accompany the sick during the covid-19, we are much more reserved on the chosen calendar and on the means used. We will therefore vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u6	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u7	Covid-19 would have already affected 3.5 million of our fellow citizens. For those who have developed serious forms and are cured of them, it will, let us be certain, remain a very traumatic event. Among those of our fellow citizens who have developed only a benign form of the disease, many retain persistent symptoms after the infection. This persistence of symptoms acts as harassment, in the form of a cyclical back and forth unbearable to those who suffer from it. From day to day, those who engage in regular sporting activity are suddenly unable to do so for long months; For others, it is the daily tasks that become insurmountable, or a professional activity for which one no longer manages to assume the burden. In the end, these are all upset lives, shaken daily newspapers, men and women who have been shot down. This is the subject we were discussing in the House not later than yesterday; By our vote, I am confident that we have sent a message of gratitude to all those affected by the long covid. Our fellow citizens who suffer from it are in a situation of medical error, because we do not have enough step back on this path to offer them an appropriate care path and a real care. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and related group, we cannot afford to lose the feeling that you are not on the right track. You have considerable hopes, but the bill does not seem to me to be feasible – it does not seem to us. The cost of all the proposals presented would amount to several tens of billion euros: how will you finance it? Undoubtedly by increasing the tax burden,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u8	Expenditure is when the President of the Republic wants it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u9	... even though public finances are already considerably degraded. We also do not understand how you will be able to create, in six months, a public institution whose main mission will be to investigate claims for compensation for hundreds of thousands of patients. If we have a very clear idea of the political responsibility of the Government in failing to manage masks and tests, we are not among those who believe that the State is responsible for everything, including a health crisis that has spared no one in the world. To the IDU and independent group, we believe that our fellow citizens directly or indirectly affected by the covid-19 do not expect monetary aid; We believe that they are waiting first and foremost for recognition, care, healing and reimbursement of their care. Our group has also made a major proposal for the care of victims of long-term covid. For example, our colleague Michel Zumkeller has tabled a bill to create a platform to direct them towards a previously defined and adapted care path. Our fellow citizens affected by covid-19, whether or not there are persistent symptoms, must be able to count on 100% reimbursement for care, as is the case for people with long-term conditions. We recalled yesterday that we will ensure that the good intentions that have led to consensus are followed with effect, because in the end, the only thing that matters, the only element on which our fellow citizens will judge our actions, is our ability to accompany them in this terrible ordeal. As you will understand, the IDU and independent group will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u10	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u11	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u12	On 30 October, the World Health Organization – WHO – launched the alert: it is imperative that governments recognize the long-term effects of covid-19 and ensure access to health services for all patients. This includes primary health care and, where necessary, specialized care and rehabilitation. In France, since April 2020, patients of long-term covid-19 find themselves on social networks and create associations to exchange, understand their symptoms, try to find solutions and make their voices heard. President of one of these associations, AfterJ20, and infected with covid-19 in March 2020, Pauline Oustric testified: "It is a prolonged, fluctuating and multi-systemic disease. In addition to chronic exhaustion, symptoms can be respiratory, cardiac, vascular, dermatological, neurological – brain fog being one of the most reported effects – related to the ENT sphere – [...] some have even lost hearing, others have lost voice – or even digestive. I used to be in megaform, very sporty. Today I have to split my days because of disabling fatigues. I have chest pain, I have been diagnosed with a dysautonomy that causes tachycardia. I also developed indigestion and intolerance to milk that I didn't have before. I'm still frozen. Without my parents, who I went home to while I was living in England, I couldn't have held. » The persistent and polymorphic symptoms of covid-19 are increasingly documented every day, but they are still not recognized by the public authorities. Patients should not depend solely on their loved ones or their parents – when they have the opportunity to do so. They must receive from the national community, not just words, but also means to deal with them, especially since the consequences that have been observed, as described, are numerous and very disabling. Such support and means must be able to be provided in the long term. On many occasions, the group La France insoumée had alerted, like others here, to the situation. We had tabled several amendments, most of which were deemed inadmissible, to the Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – for 2021, as well as to the various emergency measures bills. Patients with these symptoms should be able to benefit from the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease, when it is the case. However, the decree of the Minister of Health Olivier Véran, allowing certain caregivers to benefit from this recognition, remains reserved for those who have been put on oxygen, while 10 to 20% of those who have contracted covid-19 without going into resuscitation would be affected by these long-term harms. What about all the others? The minister also forgets other diseases, other professions, first and first of all ropes, caregivers who have fallen ill and developed other forms of disease. Many are forced to stop working and are not recognized as victims of an occupational disease. All of them have been invisitized and ignored by the public authorities. Beyond that, any person suffering from these after-effects or prevented from working must be provided with full medical care, full reimbursement of his or her health costs, accommodation of his or her workplace, or even long-term recognition of a condition. In the absence of a revision of the order made by the Minister on September 14, and without removing anything from the need for recognition of occupational disease when it is the case, the bill could respond to all the situations of the many people with long covids. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] Our group has already asked on several occasions to stop the medical wandering of the sick during the covid-19. We want these patients to be recognised and given full care. We therefore support the proposal that patients should receive full reparation for temporary or permanent sequelae as a result of their infection with the virus, through the creation of a compensation fund for the victims of the covid-19, under the supervision of the ministries of social security and the budget. It is true that the possibility of prompt compensation will not restore the sick to health or the opportunity to work, but it is at least a sign of the collective responsibility of society in the face of this tragedy and will allow them to continue a dignified life. Of course, we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u13	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u14	Yesterday, our House adopted a motion for a resolution calling for the recognition and management of the long-term complications of covid-19. On this occasion, the Libertés et Territoires Group called on us not to anticipate and to avoid evacuating the debate that we are about to have on the Socialist and Related Group's proposal for a law, the aim of which is to create a fund to compensate the victims of the covid-19. This proposal addresses important issues and issues in view of the scale of the epidemic and its consequences for people affected by the virus, whatever its forms – severe or lighter. The sequelae are sometimes long, sometimes definitive and often handicaping; I know something about that. One year after the outbreak, and despite the achievements of researchers and health professionals, the long-term effects of covid-19 infection remain unknown. Studies are just beginning to confirm these complications and to corroborate the malaise and suffering of a very large number of people, who do not always find an adequate response or care for their situation. We must therefore adjust the system of solidarity. These complications do not occur only for patients who have contracted a serious form or who have been hospitalized; They also occur, in different forms, in persons who had developed a mild form and who did not have particular risks or aggravating factors. I said yesterday: women are particularly affected, so are young people. The sequelae are very varied: they affect the respiratory faculties, but also the neurological system, sometimes seem to disappear before returning stronger, more lancinating, or even disabling. Finally, they may be psychiatric, with anxiety and depression. With the recent emergence of new variants, we cannot rule out the development of new expressions of the disease. Therefore, we can only insist on the need to focus research on all forms of covid-19, because a better knowledge of the disease is an imperative to improve management and prevent lasting effects. It is also a prerequisite for the creation of a possible compensation fund. The other imperative, which is linked, concerns recognition as an occupational disease. This was necessary, as many people continued to work despite the epidemic, sometimes working under conditions that did not guarantee their safety. We repeat, however, that the decree issued last September is still insufficient, because it is too restrictive. It only takes into account the very severe forms of covid-19, those that required oxygen therapy. All other forms, equally real, binding and handicaping, are excluded; This is tantamount to denying the heavy nature of the long-term effects. Even more so, this decree forgets the non-careers, neglecting the important role of a very large number of workers who have allowed the country to hold: cashiers, law enforcement and security officers, teachers, garbagemen, postal workers, roadmen, deliverymen, volunteers – I cannot quote them all. For these individuals, the assessment is done on a case-by-case basis. The recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease is therefore still far from satisfactory. With all these elements, the question of reparation, of compensation, necessarily deserves our attention. Establishing a compensation fund for the victims of the covid-19 and their dependants would have the merit of recognizing the exceptional nature of this epidemic, in its scale and brutality. Perhaps it is indeed too early to create a compensation fund: on the one hand, we do not yet know all the consequences of the disease, on the other hand, the responsibility of the State – legal, not only political – towards the victims is not recognized. This objection was legitimately raised in committee. Nevertheless, I support the fact that this text has the merit of raising issues and containing interesting proposals. Thus, to resort to national solidarity does not appear to us to be disproportionate or inappropriate. The aim is to recognize the commitment of people, to take their suffering into account, especially when they find themselves, overnight, unable to continue or resume their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u15	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u16	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Although we are aware that there are still scientific and legal issues to be resolved in order to create a fund to compensate the victims of the operational covid-19, the Libertés et territoires Group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u17	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u18	Covid-19 and its impact on health have rightly become a major concern for our fellow citizens, a real issue of public health. Many employees were victims at the place where they worked: health workers, firefighters, road workers, household waste, large-scale employees, those in logistics centres, and many others. They were paid tribute because they continued to work to be as close to the population as possible and to provide community service. According to data from Public Health France, as of January 14, more than 64,000 health care professionals have been infected with the virus since March 2020. Some have even lost their lives. This situation is all the more unfair given that the modes of transmission are known. Precautionary measures have not been fully implemented, either for healthcare workers or for employees in the public and private sectors. All suffered from a blatant lack of protective equipment – masks, hydro-alcoholic gel, overblouses, charlottes – with dramatic consequences for some. We heard the anger of employees facing the risk of infection, and their fear of transmitting the virus to their loved ones on their way home. We have seen many of them stay at their workplace or not return home to avoid transmission. The first steps taken by the Government were far from satisfactory. The decree issued on 14 September limits the scope of recognition as an occupational disease only to hospital staff seriously affected, and establishes draconian conditions. It also excludes all other employees. All workers who have contracted the disease at work, or on their way to it, must automatically benefit from just reparation, regardless of their occupation. The experience in this area is not unknown to us. Occupational diseases such as asbestos are often underreported, undervalued, and under-recognized. It's not about reproducing the same misdeeds with covid-19. As my colleague Pierre Dharréville pointed out during the debate on the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention, promoting occupational health is a crucial objective; In order to achieve it, the public authorities must give new impetus. The bill before us is intended to recognize covid-19 as an occupational disease; All employees are entitled to recognition, regardless of their symptoms. It is therefore a step forward. For these reasons, I stress the quality of the work done by Régis Juanico, who intends with this bill to provide the most correct answers. The first involves taking into account all the damage suffered by employees. It is now recognized that different symptoms, which are not only pulmonary, persist for weeks or even months after the disease has been reported. It is therefore just and legitimate to recognize them. Whether they belong to the public or the private sector, employees are entitled to compensation. It starts with recognition. The text creates a compensation fund for all employees. It draws on the compensation funds for victims of asbestos and pesticides to establish the compensation fund for victims of covid-19. The ambition is to make it work as a one-stop shop, to simplify the procedures of employees who are victims and to avoid often too long and complex procedures. Financing by the occupational accidents and diseases branch – AT-MP – is the most timely decision. This is all the more true since the AT-MP branch, financed by employers, has for several years had a surplus of more than EUR 1 billion, while thousands of employees are victims of occupational diseases. It is due to the lack of consideration of new work-related pathologies, but also to under-reporting of work-related accidents and occupational diseases. The compensation fund for victims of asbestos – FIVA – is financed by the AT-MP branch, therefore by companies; State payments are reduced every year, which we deplore every time the Social Security Financing Bill is reviewed. Remobilization is therefore urgent. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The challenge now is to prevent, so that no more employees are infected in their workplace. It is therefore crucial to develop the culture of prevention in the company, involving employees and their representatives. This bill, although perfectable, goes in the right direction: the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u19	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u20	Even yesterday, some announced a heated or even electric debate: what better way to start it than a quote from the inventor of the lightning rod? According to Benjamin Franklin, "the real tragedy of life is that you become old too early and wise too late." Indubitably, this bill proposes aborted solutions because they are too precocious. Indeed, the knowledge of the covid-19 and its consequences remains partial, resulting in necessarily hasty and approximate conclusions because they are far removed from the reality of the present. This early age generates a decadent and resigned vision of our society; It plunges us into the world of Zola, that of social determinism that was dear to him. When you propose a check for balance of all accounts in response to physical and professional suffering, how can you not review the tragic fate of Couseau in L'Assommoir, who falls into disqualification after a poorly cared work accident? So, what are you proposing to improve care, avoid incapacity, repel disability, or even disability? Nothing, absolutely nothing, when that is the problem we have to solve. You despise, like the Mining Company in Germinal, personal and professional emancipation for the benefit of a financial vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u21	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u22	Caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u23	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Moreover, the comparison with the paradoxical injunctions suffered by minors does not stop there. Indeed, in order to exploit the FIVA's son, you support your fund with the supposed fault of the State and the employers. The screening is very cynical, since we are talking about a virus spread in the general population; Thus, the accountability of the disease would automatically be returned to the employers, the same ones you never warned in 2013 of your new doctrine decommitting the State from its responsibilities for protecting employees. You thus reinvent the fine for lack of wooding by refusing to assume your doctrine, based on the financialization of the protection of the French: it has led the country to dispose of stocks of personal protection equipment unusable because outdated, to the detriment of the staff, unprotected. Your bill forgets its primitive purpose by diluting the major problem of AT-MPs into a global fund, intended for all the victims of the covid-19. In committee, you have skilfully slid, Mr rapporteur, on the cost of your project, and above all on the distribution of this cost. But your desire to dilute overwhelms the indispensable work of recognizing the AT-MP, which allows an employee to assert his fundamental rights; Moreover, along the way, we arrive at complex calculations. During the hearings, you mentioned a budget of 16 billion euros but, more recently, in Le Progrès, you asked the Government for 1 to 2 billion euros. This would lead to a few hundred euros per person, including in the event of death: this would give reason to the trade unions, who fear that compensation will be sprinkled. To this inappropriate mechanism, you add the slowness of a mechanism forced by the parliamentary shuttle, and above all by the need to have its abundance voted in PLF – finance bill – and PLFSS. Thus, victims could at best expect compensation by mid-2022 only, in more than a year's time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u24	It's better than ever!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u25	This does not seem very honest, nor very wise; To quote Benjamin Franklin, you have unfortunately become wise too late. This late wisdom occurred to you during the hearings, which pointed above all to the urgency, the priority of care and the recognition of the long covid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u26	They don't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u27	This wisdom was demonstrated yesterday by the adoption of the motion for a resolution to recognize and deal with the long-term complications of covid-19. This wisdom, Olivier Véran's decree, is further proof of this by facilitating, expanding and accelerating recognitions of occupational illness. The necessary human and financial resources have been committed to allow automatic recognition to any professional working in the care sector, whether he is a carer or a non-career, an employee or a liberal. For other professions and for less serious cases, a single regional committee is set up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u28	Five minutes of propaganda!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u29	The commitments are therefore fulfilled, despite the difficulty of defining accountability in the case of a virus. Nevertheless, I agree with you that we must go further because, while care and healing are our priority objectives, some of our fellow citizens are in complex financial situations. That is why, in the motion for a resolution, we promote research. In fact, better recognition comes from knowledge. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Finally, your late wisdom and early ideological age...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u30	It's provocation! A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u31	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – New exclamations on SOC banks]] [[Continuous exclamations on the SOC benches]] ...contain the life of your text to a tragedy. In addition, they add to the tragi-comic of this parliamentary niche: you organized, or rather disorganized, the day in defiance of the trust of our fellow citizens; by maintaining this bill, you confuse compensation funds with political trading funds; by removing from the agenda the bill to strengthen the right to abortion, which, however, was a consensus and adopted in committee, you have many hopes: this will leave us with the image of an IVG sordid – a feeling of real waste. To want to understand too hastily, you refuse this morning to hear the expectations of young French; you fail to grasp the healing will of patients with covid -19; You're pretending you don't understand women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u32	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u33	Thus, I invite you, more than ever, to meditate on Paul Valéry's phrase: "Understanding too soon exposes to not being aware of everything that builds or organizes the "understanding". (Applause from several benches of the LaREM group – exclamations on a few benches of the SOC group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u34	Really sucks, pitiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u35	It's not Zola who wants it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u36	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u37	This proposal for a law of the Socialist and Related Group provides for the creation of a fund to compensate the victims of the covid-19. It is based on the Government's responsibility for the health crisis, particularly at the beginning of the crisis, due to the lack of masks, blouses, gloves and overblouses. It aims to compensate all victims, not just caregivers, who are already partially covered by the occupational disease. First of all, I would like to reaffirm here the recognition of the Republican Group to all those who stood by, especially at the beginning of the crisis. Of course, I am thinking of caregivers, firefighters, police officers, cashiers and cashiers, maintenance staff – the list is long. I also have a special thought for those who work in the social field, for example in the disability sector, which have been largely forgotten by Ségur de la santé. Some have been affected by the disease and, like all the Members present here, I obviously consider it imperative to accompany those who still suffer from its consequences. First and foremost, there is an urgent need for a health programme to match the epidemic of covid-19, so that doctors and scientists can conduct research on the consequences of the virus for the mental and psychological health of patients. A complete list of symptoms should be drawn up, documented and disseminated to both patients and physicians. This first step is essential, because although this syndrome has been recognized by the WHO, the number of patients remains difficult to assess, as well as the duration of symptoms from which covid-19 can be described as long. Finally, it is essential to carry out rapid and serious work in order to take care of patients, including financially, because the most urgent need is for these patients to be able to treat themselves. The proposed law leads us to ask the following question: Does the Government have a political responsibility in this matter? Probably. This is also reflected in the report of the fact-finding mission on the covid -19 epidemic, drawn up by our colleague Eric Ciotti last December. "To be effectively combated," he observes, "the Covid-19 epidemic required binding, coherent and interdependent choices that had been designed in 2009 to deal with the influenza A pandemic. A succession of unpreparedness, gravity and doubtless hesitation has led to a finding that cannot be satisfied. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u38	Amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u39	Lack of preparation, logistical problems, distribution of chaotic material, poorly controlled management, repeated coracs in communication: there are many errors. But the unpreparation is not just the fact of the Government: one could mention the constant decrease in the stocks of masks since 2012 or the integration of the EPRUS – Establishment of preparedness and response to health emergencies – at Santé publique France in 2014, to mention only these examples. However, the crisis has been unexpected for everyone and marked by many unknown scientists who have turned into hesitations, sometimes leading to heated controversy, which has not facilitated public decision-making, for its part subject to an urgent imperative. In this difficult context, while we are still in the middle of the epidemic, is it appropriate to create a compensation fund for the victims of the covid-19? We don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not confuse the political responsibility of a government with the legal responsibility of a State: the responsibility of a State is a heavy decision. Now, with this text, you sort of put the plough before the oxen. In order for the fund to be truly meaningful, any misconduct should be recognized in judicial proceedings. If the responsibility of the State, employers or other persons were to be established, then consideration could be given to the creation of the victims' compensation fund. In the meantime, I hope that the status of the patients is already recognised, that the population and healthcare professionals will be informed of the symptoms of this disease and that patients with long covid will be given appropriate care, with a real course of care, in coordination with all associations of patients and with health insurance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] That is why, despite our criticism of the Government, we believe that it is still too early to discuss the establishment of a compensation fund, when no judicial responsibility has yet been established. We will not vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u40	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u41	As we said last week in the Committee on Social Affairs, we consider that this text is not appropriate, either in terms of form or substance. On the form, the explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the objective of the creation of the fund is to point out "the responsibilities of the State in the current health crisis". Let us insurrection against such an intention. Of course, as in all the countries of the world, France has had to deal with certain shortcomings in the organization of the response to the suddenness of the epidemic. However, these were corrected very quickly, to make our country one of the best armed to protect its population. Let us be clear: we cannot let it be said, or even imagined, that the responsibility for a pandemic and its consequences lies with the State. This kind of statement is at best demagogic and, at worst, dangerous. On the substance of the text, you propose the creation of a compensation fund for a disease whose forms are constantly evolving and whose knowledge is not yet scientifically consolidated. While the primary scientific response to this pandemic has been particularly effective, particularly with the rapid development of vaccines, it must be borne in mind that medicine needs time to reach definitive conclusions. Please, let's not put the plow before the oxen. On the other hand, this text focuses solely on a financial response: we believe that this is a fundamental mistake. Indeed, it seems to us that people with long-term post-covid symptoms are waiting for a medical and therapeutic response. Money has never healed any pathology. There has never been a question of compensating the sick, for none of the epidemics in our history. Compensation funds can be an appropriate solution to remedy conditions related to a lack of vigilance by the authorities or serious misconduct: this has been the case for victims of asbestos, but also, more recently, at the initiative of the Socialist and Related Group, for the victims of chlordecone in the West Indies. The current health situation is absolutely not comparable and does not require such a position at all. However, we are very much in favour of moving towards a concrete recognition of long covids, as they are now commonly called. The High Health Authority is also working to disseminate specific management protocols, in order to improve the care of people who suffer from persistent disorders as a result of their infection with SARS-CoV-2 – coronavirus 2 of severe acute respiratory syndrome. It is in this perspective that the motion for a resolution to recognize and deal with the long-term complications of covid-19, which is in the process of a genuine process of research, monitoring and recognition of the long-term effects of covid-19, was adopted yesterday. Our group will be extremely careful to ensure that the Government can quickly open and relax the system – on work stoppages and occupational diseases – to a wider group of the population, including front-line workers, who are among the most exposed and affected. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We therefore consider that this bill is not in the right direction: it is not consistent on the substance or on the form. Although we do not doubt the sincerity of the rapporteur's approach, it seems to us more pragmatic to trust science and medicine rather than the magic money to accompany and treat patients with lasting forms of covid. For all these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group will oppose the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u42	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u43	Since the committee has not adopted the bill, I now call the articles in the text that was originally before the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u44	On Article 1, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dominique Da Silva to support Amendment No. 10, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u45	Article 1 sets out the scope of the device, which, let us say, is incredibly extensive. All persons who have had temporary or permanent sequelae, as a result of covid-19 contamination on French soil, are targeted, regardless of the circumstances of this contamination. It seems to me that two amendments are aimed at extending it. [[Exclaims on several SOC benches]] Admit that this proposal is not realistic: it is serious only with regard to the subject it addresses. Which country in the world, even the leftmost, proposes this? None, not even Communist China.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u46	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u47	[[Rites and exclamations on SOC and GDR benches]] With this bill, one might think that it was the French state that created this virus and that deliberately spread it! Should we remind you that the state is us? Should officials who did not order masks or blouses be condemned in due course?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u48	It's not about the public servants, it's not about the public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u49	How can one imagine a comprehensive compensation for the sequelae of a viral pandemic and a virus that mutates here and there on the planet, which is very contagious and whose method of contamination it is very difficult to determine with certainty? Again, let's be realistic. Thanks to the government and the decisions we have made,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u50	And thanks to social security, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u51	...we have the chance to live in a country that offers 100% of all care, screening and prevention of covid-19, a country where there is a possibility of sick leave and where there is a procedure for recognition as an occupational disease: these concrete actions meet the needs of the patients of the covid. A fund of compensation is therefore in no way justified. That is why we propose the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u52	The rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr Régis Juanico, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u53	I will be a little longer on Article 1 and much less on the following, because this is the main article. To sum up the philosophy of this bill, we want to move from words to deeds. Whatever you say, recognition as an occupational disease will not be sufficient to cover all the situations created by this pandemic. Since in one way or another, perhaps in a few months, we will come to create a compensation fund, as much as anticipate things. Yesterday, we voted unanimously for a motion for a resolution tabled by the majority. But, as its name suggests, a resolution is a non-binding opinion. Yes to a better knowledge of the pandemic of covid -19, of course, yes to more research, better management and coordinated pathways of care for the sick, especially in the long run. But what happened after the unanimous adoption of the motion for a resolution? Secretary of State Pietraszewski spoke without announcing anything: he merely indicated that the Government was ready for changes in the arrangements for the management of long-term covid if scientific knowledge made them necessary. Of course, we voted unanimously yesterday, but then there was no passage from words to deeds. I'm told this device is premature, too early. With the measure, the tact and the moderation we know him, Julien Borowczyk even evoked yesterday a bill that "stamps knowledge", just that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u54	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u55	One year after the beginning of the pandemic, the long covid has already been the subject of numerous documented scientific publications: The Lancet's study on hospitalizations in China, that of King's College in the United Kingdom, that of the University of Geneva, that of Professor Dominique Salmon-Ceron at the Hôtel-Dieu, the studies that compare and identify all the symptoms – and they are very numerous – of patients of the long covid, the work of Olivier Robineau at the CHU – university hospital centre – in Tourcoing, among which the cohort "Cocolate", and the study "Constances", which has just come out. So we are progressing on the scientific knowledge of long covid. Last week were published by the High Health Authority, and WHO held a seminar on this subject. The urgency of the situation prompts us to act. For those who arrive at the end of their rights, for example, it is not possible to wait one, two or three years before creating a repair device. For all those who have difficulties returning to normal life, and there are more and more witnesses, one cannot wait one, two or three years. The compensation fund can fully adapt to changes related to the knowledge of the disease, including in relation to future variants: this has been the case for the FIVA, as the health consequences arise and over time. The leitmotif of the LaREM and Dem Group Members in the Social Affairs Committee was that of the financialization of the disease: money is not the problem, they said in essence, we have never healed with money. The creation of a redress mechanism is in no way an obstacle to the establishment of adequate medical follow-up. However, the medical follow-up of these people is not always sufficient. It is therefore essential to compensate for the particularly disadvantageous harm caused to many victims, who are hindered in the actions of everyday life, or who are unable to return to work. Some patients do not benefit from recognition of the disease as a long-term condition: what do we do for them? With the compensation fund proposed here, we are responding to the urgency and distress of these people. I am told that this fund will be expensive, but more than 500 billion euros have already been spent, since the beginning of the health crisis, on supporting sectors of activity in difficulty, and that is quite normal. And we couldn't spend a few billion euros for the most serious victims of the covid-19? Don't start brandishing numbers that scare everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u56	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u57	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, this bill is not a state-responsibility trial: it has been recalled in the speeches, and I thank the political groups that support the text. Of course, the State has a share of responsibility, in view of the numerous shortcomings found, in the situation in which the victims are located. But the creation of a fund goes beyond the notion of responsibility; It complies with the principle of national solidarity. This fund will significantly reduce the risk of increasing the number of litigation cases, which are lengthy and particularly difficult for victims. In short, the main objective of this bill is reparation, not the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u58	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u59	As I mentioned in my opening remarks, Mr rapporteur, I share your view that there is a lack of scientific knowledge in this area, which could justify the creation of a compensation fund for victims of covid-19. Moreover, there is no legal basis for the creation of such a fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u60	Let's lay that foundation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u61	The very nature of the epidemic risk and the incompleteness of scientific knowledge do not provide a basis for full compensation, which is provided for in the bill. I'm coming to the FIVA, mentioned by one of you. Studies had highlighted the danger of asbestos several decades before it was banned by the public authorities. So we are not here in a comparable situation, contrary to what you have sought to demonstrate. In addition, the proposed option would involve significant implementation deadlines, both for the establishment of the public institution and for the definition of compensation rules, even though the Government has committed itself to promptly compensating the professional victims of the covid-19, and the compensation must also be automatic, I repeat, for the caregivers. For all these reasons, we have chosen compensation for occupational diseases. Thanks to the creation of a dedicated table, the recognition of acute respiratory diseases contracted by caregivers and assimilated workers is automatic. For all other professions and diseases, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, a simplified recognition procedure has been introduced. Applications for recognition are reviewed by a single medical committee, which allows for harmonization of their treatment. Since December 2020, 265 recognitions have been granted. Compensation for professional victims of covid-19 is quick and consistent with the state of scientific knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u62	What about the teachers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u63	In addition, as you pointed out, Mr. Rapporteur, the Government is committed to improving the care of people with long covids – many of you have mentioned them. Scientific monitoring is carried out to take account of the evolution of scientific knowledge and work is carried out on this basis to structure and harmonize the care and care of the persons concerned, throughout the territory, by a long covid. We still have much to learn about this form of disease. For all these reasons, I am in favour of this amendment to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u64	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u65	As the rapporteur has praised my moderation, I shall be brief. There is a need to distinguish between the various problems, which has not always been the case, unfortunately, in our discussions. On the one hand, there are people who have suffered from a serious form of covid, who have been hospitalized and placed on oxygen therapy. They are intended to be cared for, as we have said and will say again, in the context of occupational disease. Their applications are reviewed by the unique regional committees we have mentioned. There are, on the other hand, people who suffer from a long covid, on which we do indeed have much to learn. In this respect, Mr rapporteur, as we have heard during the hearings, the question is really, at first, the recognition of this form of disease, and this involves both diagnosis and treatment. In the vast majority of cases, all specialists say, treatment and rehabilitation allow healing. It is therefore more important than ever to be concerned about this diagnosis, this recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u66	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u67	There has been some progress in this area, even before the bill was considered. Thanks to the records drawn up by the High Health Authority, I can testify to this in my capacity as a treating physician, we now have official information to help us detect these patients, who passed under radars and often ended up under antidepressants – this is tragic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u68	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u69	The majority group has tabled amendments to delete all the articles of the bill. Although I am not in touch with our socialist colleagues – as I explained in the general discussion – I do not appreciate this practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u70	It's not worthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u71	It's Macronie's signature!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u72	[[Applause on several SOC benches]] I don't even think she's elegant. That is why we will not take part in the vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u73	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor to support Amendment No 11, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u74	A quick, immediate, instant response should be provided. From this point of view, precisely, the bill does not appear to be appropriate. Given the parliamentary shuttle, it would take a long time before it was finally adopted, not to mention the time taken for the establishment of the public institution, the drafting of the decree in the Council of State on its functioning and the installation of its board of directors. We have favoured automatic recognition of occupational disease for all those working in the health and medical-social sectors who have developed a serious form of covid-19 whose treatment required respiratory assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u75	They're not the only ones involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u76	The procedure already exists, and it has been possible to implement it very quickly. This derogation applies not only to caregivers, but also to all those who work in the care community, whether in the public, private or liberal sectors. The scope of the beneficiaries is very broad: it includes administrative staff and those working in structures for the elderly or disabled. On the other hand, there is easier, off-the-shelf recognition for people who have been contaminated in their workplace. It is the people who have allowed the continuity of care and that of social life who must obtain this recognition and benefit from follow-up. I welcome the action of the Government, which announced, from the beginning of the pandemic, that it would introduce this procedure and issued, as early as September, the corresponding decree. All those who know the usages of occupational diseases can attest to this, this mobilization is quite exceptional. Rather than creating a new device, let's start by implementing the one I just described. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u77	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u78	You really don't have a heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u80	It is true that it will take a little time for the bill to be passed, given the parliamentary shuttle. Therefore, it should be adopted at first reading this evening, so as not to waste any time. I still remember what happened. At the very beginning of the pandemic, we called for the establishment of an exceptional mechanism for the recognition of occupational diseases. The Government made initial announcements at the end of March, confirmed here by the Prime Minister at the end of April. However, it took many months before the decree on carers and similar workers was published on 14 September.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u81	Yes! And what about the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u82	I recall the figure given earlier by our colleague: 64,000 caregivers were affected by the covid-19. However, how many recognitions of occupational disease have been made under Table 100? Between December 2020, when the procedure was operational, and the beginning of February 2021, there were 265!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u83	And there are 3.4 million sick!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u84	This number still appears relatively small, even if we consider the 6000 to 12,000 caregivers – 10% to 20% of the caregivers affected – who suffered from a serious form of covid. This is the effectiveness of the so-called automatic recognition procedure for occupational diseases. In your opinion, we propose a heavy device, which would extend processing times, which would be characterized by its slowness. On the contrary, it is a tried and tested scheme, since its operation would be based on that of the compensation fund for victims of asbestos, referred to by the Secretary of State. In fact, we have set a very short investigation period of six months from the date of receipt of the claim. In addition, the fund would be characterized by its simplicity and speed. Simplicity, because it would centralize all applications and act as a one-stop shop. In case of pathology developed in a professional context, he would turn to the AT-MP branch. Rapidity, because the procedure would be less complex than the recognition of occupational disease. With the current mechanism, it is well known that in many cases it will take months or even years to establish even the link between the disease and the exercise of professional activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u85	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u86	This link is very difficult to establish in the case of covid. Personally, I am not in favour of this amendment to delete Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u88	I have already mentioned most of the points when I gave my opinion on the previous amendment. I share the goal of improving care, especially for long-term covid. As for compensation for victims, it must be part of the system for the recognition of occupational diseases, which has been greatly improved by the decree of 14 September 2020, already mentioned on numerous occasions. In the current state of scientific knowledge, as I said, the creation of a compensation fund seems to me to be excluded. I am therefore in favour of this amendment to delete Article 2, as well as the other amendments by Mr Borowczyk to delete the following articles of the bill, which determine the way in which the fund operates – I will have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u89	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u90	I think the debate is taking a rather singular turn. You recognize that there are risks, but, as scientists have not spoken out, you do not want to create the compensation fund for the victims of the covid-19 proposed by our colleagues Régis Juanico and Christian Hutin. You say that the recognition of occupational diseases is a priority. However, according to the figures presented to us, the proportion of these recognitions appears to be very small: a little less than 300 months for more than 3.4 million French people affected by the disease. And for those who suffer from sequelae or the effects of a long covid, nothing is foreseen. The bill is not intended at all to charge the state. It provides for a mechanism for persons who are no longer in a position to work and who are not covered – this is the case for self-employed persons who, unlike employees, cannot even benefit from sick leave. As the rapporteur has pointed out, you are spending billions of euros on emergency treatment and recovery. In this case, however, there is a legal, budgetary and, in spite of everything you say, human vacuum. I repeat, no solution is proposed, among other things, to those who suffer from a long covid. The fund we are proposing would open up opportunities for care that you are refusing today, and we regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u92	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u93	Be careful with the numbers, and let's keep ourselves together! Three million people infected with covid, that doesn't mean 3 million occupational diseases,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u94	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u95	...or 3 million people with a serious form.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u96	I didn't say that either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u97	Listen up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u98	Fortunately, more than 95 per cent of the patients were able to cope without any sequelae. What we are interested in, I repeat, is, above all, repair by care. You denounce our so-called contradictions, but let me point out one of them in your remarks: you say that people must be quickly cared for at the end of their rights, and claim to do so thanks to this bill, which would always be better than nothing; And it would not be adopted until 2022! Now is the time to care about people at the end of their rights! Let's do it, starting with working on the care. I say it again, care and rehabilitation make it possible to obtain healings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u99	No, the amendment is rejected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u100	[[Smile]] So far you had a good reputation in mathematics, Mrs. Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u101	On Amendment No 12, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dominique Da Silva to support Amendment No. 12, which deletes Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u102	This article, dealing with the examination of applications, is an opportunity to revisit the recognition of occupational diseases by the AT-MP branch and to challenge a number of arguments, counter-truths, starting with the idea that the 200 recognitions established since the beginning of the pandemic would not represent anything. In fact, the first cases were dealt with at the end of November, and it was evident that a single committee had to be set up to manage a very special situation. Everyone can understand this, but with the proposed provisions you forget, once again, the reality of the terrain. Please be aware that there are many requests, with the number of files processed increasing every day. However, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has made a commitment that these issues will be dealt with within three months. You have seen well, since the hearings, that the number of recognitions has doubled, from 100 to 200; At the last point, you have just said, we are at 265, 65 cases processed within a few days. Beneficiaries include caregivers, firefighters, road drivers, airport agents, security officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u103	And he's not interested in teachers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u104	It is clear that the system is working and that we are delivering on our commitments. I therefore call for the deletion of Article 3 on behalf of the LaREM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u105	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u107	I will be briefer on this article on the procedures for investigating claims, under the fund we want to create, for the most serious victims of the covid-19. In particular, our colleague Michel Zumkeller criticises this bill for the creation of a gas plant that would have only very long-term effects. Nevertheless, I note that, in the framework of the well-functioning procedure for the recognition of occupational diseases – which has shortcomings: a very complex procedure, the course of the combatant for the supplementary procedure, relating to the cases absent from the table of occupational diseases – several months, from March onwards, passed before the publication of the decree in September, and then its effective application in December: it was therefore all this time that it took to respond to people who were in a difficult situation or even in distress at the professional level. In any event, the text would in no way prevent this device from rising to power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u108	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u109	Mr Secretary of State, you mentioned the figure of 265 recognitions under Table 100 of occupational diseases. Could you give us the number of files filed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u111	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u112	And the answer to the number of files?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u113	He doesn't know her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u114	I put to the vote Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u115	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 42 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u116	On Amendment No 13, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor to support Amendment No. 13, which deletes Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u117	I would like to recall the mechanism that has been adopted, namely the endorsement of the compensation fund at FIVA. From the beginning, this provision poses a real problem because it is difficult to compare a product of natural origin, certainly, but mineral, used in industry and vectorized only by man, with a virus that spread everywhere and has led to a global pandemic. To bounce back on what has just been said, it is difficult to assess the accountability of harm: the thing, everyone is aware of it, is very complex. Would the compensation fund make it possible to better determine the eligibility criteria for a particular compensation or to obtain recognition for a particular occupational disease? You don't really specify it. Finally, the endorsement of the FIVA necessarily obliges you to put on the table the responsibility of the State. Moreover, I agree with you that your proposal for a law would make it possible to move quickly from this point of view alone, in that it would at the same time replace the Court of Justice of the Republic, the Council of State, the Senate Committee of Inquiry and the fact-finding mission that I had the honour of presiding over the indictment of the State as soon as possible. I find the approach a bit deplorable politically; hence this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u119	Mr. Borowczyk quoted Zola, but he had some problems understanding the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u120	Hey, oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u121	It's a personal attack!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u122	It is a counter-truth, dear colleague, to say that we would endow our compensation fund with the covid-19 at FIVA. That's not the case! We draw on the FIVA's proven governance model to layer the board of directors, the procedures for investigating cases and the way in which they operate. This has nothing to do with financial support! Words make sense, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u124	We are simply inspired by the FIVA, that is, by what works, quite simply. I am therefore against this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u127	Favourable opinion, for the reasons set out above. To answer my question and satisfy President Valérie Rabault, since last December, there have been 10,000 applications for recognition of occupational disease for compensation. For a large part of them, they are in the process of being trained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u128	I put to the vote Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u129	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 72 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 42 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u130	On Amendment No 14, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, in support of Amendment No 14, which deletes Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u131	This article relates to the offer of compensation. During the hearings, the figure of 16 billion euros was advanced, corresponding to 35000 or 40000 euros for each of the 300,000 or 400000 persons concerned. However, it is impossible, as the report indicates, to assess the impact of such a measure in the absence of a setback. Some structures, such as trade unions, have also expressed their fear of powdering. You yourself speak in the press, rapporteur, of a cost of 1 to 2 billion. Do you give up an integral distribution? Again, the question before the financialization of the approach is that of AT-MP recognition, but also of care, statistics and knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u133	I mentioned, not a precise figure of 16 billion, but a few billion euros. Secondly, it is not my fault that the bills are not accompanied by an impact assessment, as I have hoped for in the last ten years. We have even submitted, with Laure de La Raudière, our former colleague, a report on the manufacture of the law in which we requested that every bill be accompanied by an ex ante impact assessment. In any case, I cannot give you precise figures. If one is layered on the basis of average annual compensation for victims of asbestos, one is around 20,000 or 30,000 euros per person compensated. In addition, the record of 83,000 deaths, 3.5 million reported cases and just over 300,000 hospitalized persons is provisional. It is, of course, necessary to wait for a final assessment to draw up projections, which will, in any case, extend over several years. A few billion euros, in any case, this does not seem scandalous to me with regard to the presidential motto of "whatever it costs". Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u135	Favourable opinion, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u136	I put to the vote Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u137	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 40 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u138	I call Mrs Michèle Peyron to support Amendment No. 15, which deletes Rule 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u139	This article deals with the right of legal action against the fund, even though there is a lack of knowledge of pathology. It is indeed necessary, as all experts say, to improve our knowledge of the disease. We all voted yesterday on the motion for a resolution to recognise and deal with the long-term complications of the covid-19. I welcome this because the challenge to date is to make this disease known and recognised and to find appropriate treatments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u140	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, in support of Amendment No 16, which deletes Rule 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u141	You have modelled your proposals on the compensation fund for asbestos victims, for which there are fairly long prescription periods. If this can be understood when we speak of mesothelioma and pleura cancer, declared at a distance from its cause, this is not necessarily appropriate in the emergency context of the covid-19 that you are promoting yourself. The challenge is to provide quick solutions to people who have experienced their daily lives affected by the disease, not to claim a right to compensation in ten years' time. We therefore hope that this article will be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u142	Well, that's pretty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u144	We must not oppose the short term, namely care and better support for patients with long-term covid, and the medium and long-term. As is well known, some people, who became ill during the first wave, and who have been admitted to resuscitation – where they have often been intubated or sedation – have serious, sometimes definitive, sequelae. These patients will no doubt have to live permanently with disabilities, alas, despite the rehabilitation and rehabilitation provided by doctors who do really great things, all over our territories. On the other hand, there are long covids, which are the subject of studies. However, according to the scientists who worked on these issues – and I mentioned earlier – some persistent symptoms could last several years, two or perhaps more. Pending a review of the evolution of symptoms in patients and the emergence of variants of a different nature in the coming months and years, we have chosen to duplicate the operation of the asbestos victims' compensation fund, which we believe is fully adapted to this situation. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u146	Favourable, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u147	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u148	I was thinking that many sick people are probably watching us tonight and I am not sure that their morale is really being improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u149	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u150	Having had the covid-19 twice, I think I know what we're talking about. I therefore wanted to justify the Group's choice to act together to vote on all these amendments aimed at deleting the articles. I must inform you of my incomprehension with your bill. No one denies the existence of long covid-19 and no one knows how long the sequelae will last in some patients. Nevertheless, I wonder whether it is appropriate to set up a compensation fund, which, in my opinion, leads to the existence of the legal responsibility of the State, of a company or of an industry in this disease. Without legal liability, there are no reparations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u151	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u152	Is this the number of people affected who would justify the creation of this new kind of compensation fund? It is true that 800,000 French people have died of covid-19 in the past year, but this figure is roughly equivalent to the number of deaths due to smoking. However, we have not created compensation funds for these patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u153	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u154	You're talking about long-term illnesses, but 3.5 million people suffer from COPD – chronic obstructive bronchopneumopathy – due to tobacco use, which leads to work stoppages and a decrease in the quality of life. I repeat, to my knowledge, we have never created compensation funds for these patients. I will go even further: whenever an illness arises, whether it is infectious or vectorial, will a compensation fund be created? Should we create one for the victims of malaria, chikungunya or tuberculosis, diseases with long-term consequences? I don't believe it. What would justify the creation of such compensation funds? Is it the role of the State to create a compensation fund for an illness that will cause an unpredictable number of victims and that may affect 80 per cent of the world's population? If so, who would be responsible for the compensation of the victims? Would the role of the State not be to finance treatment research, to guarantee quality care, to pay better for healthcare professionals, or to allow more people to be recruited?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u155	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u156	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That's where the answers are, not in a compensation fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u157	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor to support Amendment No 17, which seeks to delete Rule 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u158	The proposed scheme for the financing of the compensation fund follows once again that of the FIVA and is based on the participation of the State, as well as that of employers through their contribution to the AT-MP scheme. However, on this point too, the hearings have shown that there are many difficulties with this provision. The first, which we have already pointed out, is that costs are not assessed. At present, it is difficult to predict the number of victims;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u159	It can be very expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u160	... attests to the uncertainty surrounding the spread of variants. In addition, the contribution of the AT-MP scheme appears to be inconsistent with the very broad scope of this bill, which extends to patients who have not been contaminated in their professional sphere. For this purpose, the Government has chosen, with regard to recognized occupational diseases, to allocate the costs evenly across all contributing companies through an increase system. The coherence of this system is to be welcomed once again. That is why we propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u162	I will be brief so that we can consider the next text. I have heard that an indemnification fund cannot be established without the legal responsibility of the State. No! The principle on which we are based in this bill is that of national financial solidarity. The compensation fund for victims of terrorism could be established without the need to call into question State responsibility; the compensation funds are independent of this. I would add that, in any case, in a few months, people with the most serious forms of covid-19 will come knocking on the door of your permanences because they will not be taken care of by one of the devices that, today, is not already enough to cover all situations of distress. An answer will inevitably have to be given to these patients. So don't say we'll never make reparations, because someday we'll have these victims to take care of. Unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u163	It's a humanitarian problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u165	Favourable, consistent with my previous positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u166	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u167	With regard to the serious consequences of covid-19, this has not yet been said, but, beyond the possible recognition of this condition as an occupational disease and the management of long-term symptoms, the most serious forms, involving major respiratory or cardiac complications, can be considered as LDAs – long-term conditions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You will accuse me of corporatism, but in the excellent local press that concerns both of us, rapporteur, something has gone wrong with me. Just now, Mr. Dufrègne feared that the patients who look at us would be sad, but frankly, the doctors who look at us or read the article I am referring to are probably sad too. It seems inappropriate to me that you say that the recognition of serious forms of covid-19 as ALD depends on the good will of the doctor and that he may not grant it if he wishes. The healthcare staff is doing everything they can to treat all our compatriots and it seems to me quite indelicate to accuse them of contemptating some patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u168	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor in support of Amendment No 18, which seeks to delete Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u169	Article 9 deals with Polynesia and New Caledonia. If it makes us travel, it gives us the opportunity, above all, to congratulate all the caregivers involved in the management of the pandemic across the country. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] In the end, I regret that we have worked on a compensation fund rather than on the substance of the problem. More proposals for consensus could have been made, for example to facilitate the recognition of certain cases of covid-19 as occupational diseases. Should we create a fund that would superimposed itself on occupational disease status, but without recognition criteria? We have not been able to support this idea. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I'm sorry to come back, but earlier I was accused of needing to consult a speech therapist; However, as far as you are concerned, I think you should have used hearing aids – which are the subject of a zero charge – to hear those who pleaded to resume consideration of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. Today, on the occasion of this parliamentary niche, we could have voted for this text, which raises a real consensus on all the benches. It seems inappropriate for me to have given up on it. If women look at us, Mr. Dufrègne, I think they're shocked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u170	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u171	As all the articles were deleted, the bill was rejected. Unless Stakhanov is to return to life with you tonight, Secretary of State, I propose a five-minute suspension of the meeting, the time that your replacement will take to the bench of ministers to represent the Government for consideration of the next text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u172	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u173	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u174	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to reform the taxation of inheritance and donation rights in order to protect the middle and popular classes and to better redistribute wealth (No. 3409 corrected, 3874).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u175	Mrs Pires Beaune, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u176	According to a survey conducted in 2017, the French judge the inheritance tax very unfavorably; 87% reported that this tax should be reduced to promote transmissions to children. The most surprising thing is that this hostility varies little according to income, inheritance expectations, or whether or not it has benefited from an inheritance or a donation. It is even lower among people with high degrees. However, 65% of estates are exempt from taxes. That is to say the depth of the misunderstanding surrounding the taxation of inheritances and donations, which is overestimated, and consequently rejected, by those who are not concerned with it. For the past thirty to forty years, we have entered a new phase of growth of inequalities, in which the transmitted heritage plays a very important role. While inequalities in the distribution of private wealth had declined sharply under the blow of the two world wars and decades of growth and inflation that followed the Liberation, the opposite trend is now being established. Between 1998 and 2015, French wealth doubled, but the share held by the least endowed 20% declined. This trend is explained by economic developments: the ratio, in value added, between capital and labour tends to deform itself to the detriment of the latter, and the context of accommodative monetary policy draws upwards the prices of assets, enriching the possessors. Between 1980 and 2015, the real value of the disposable income of French households increased by 77%, while their wealth increased threefold. If nothing is done, the continuation of these heavy tendencies would return us to a society of heirs comparable to that of the Belle Époque, when the hundredth richest of the population, in France, possessed 60% of the national wealth. In addition, the ageing of the French population contributes to increasing these inequalities by concentrating heritage among the most advanced age groups in life. As a result of changing population structure and rising mortality rates, the share of annual transmissions in household net disposable income is expected to increase from 19% today to more than 25% by 2050. Our tax system appears to be largely inadequate to meet the economic, social and democratic challenge of a strong return to the legacy. It is a complex and dated system, the principles of which were laid down by a law of 1901 which introduced a progressive taxation of estates on a number of scales, applying according to the degree of family proximity between the donor or deceased and the beneficiary. It is also a system that provides little incentive for donations to younger generations, or rather it encourages them to do so mainly for the most affluent ones thanks to the periodic renewal of the allowances. Second, there are major gaps that allow larger assets to escape tax, particularly thanks to the exception scheme that life insurance benefits – as you know, life insurance is not subject to inheritance taxes, except for premiums paid after 70 years. For the rest, only the premiums paid since 1998 are taxed, through a specific levy that is very advantageous at the rate of 20% for the first EUR 700000 and 31.25 % beyond, all after a very generous reduction of EUR 152500 per beneficiary. I would also like to point out that fifty-six of our colleagues in the Dem Group, in the context of the 2021 finance bill, had tried to reform this advantageous regime, with an amendment that we had supported but which was unfortunately rejected. This exclusion from life insurance from inheritance law, if it has been able to find a justification in the past, is no longer acceptable, whereas life insurance has become a pure investment product much more than a provident transaction. This exclusion could be understood when it was, in reality, a death insurance, which the policyholder could not under any circumstances dispose of; But today it is a savings product, which has lost its random character. Following a procedure similar to our priority question of constitutionality, the Belgian Constitutional Court also censored provisions equivalent to ours, on the ground that they did not respect the principle of equality between heirs. This exclusion from inheritance law is all the more unacceptable as life insurance concentrates more than 1,800 billion euros. It is also wrong to say that this scheme favours investment in companies, since almost 80% of the stocks are placed on non-risk euro funds – and all this, not to mention the importance of tax evasion, whose OpenLux case, after others, reminds us of the magnitude. In addition, the stocks of life insurance are distributed in a very unequal manner: the 10% of the French population with the best gross assets have more than 65%, and the 1% with the best assets has 32%. Conversely, the lowest 70 per cent have fewer than 14 per cent. Life insurance is therefore a massive optimisation product for the benefit of the richest. Finally, our transmission taxes are unfair in that they overpromote transmissions within the nuclear family. The rate between parents up to the fourth degree is 55% after a very low discount, and the rate between parents beyond the fourth degree and between non-parents is 60%. Such rates are not justified for amounts that can be modest, if not very modest, and are no longer adapted to the new forms of families and the growing individualism of our societies. These difficulties, with the evolution of the long-term economic context, explain why our tax system is today inadequate and powerless in the face of the rising inequalities that we are witnessing. The bill presented this evening by the Socialist and Related Group, joined by colleagues from other groups that I would like to thank, aims to restore more equality in the distribution of heritage, between generations, between individuals and families, and between rich and poor. It breaks with the family logic inspired by civil law to establish a single tax scale for all individuals and transmissions. This radical simplification makes it possible to improve equality between our citizens. A single, life-long individual allowance of 300,000 euros would be introduced: what each person could receive in the course of his or her life free of any right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u178	In addition to these 300000 euros, the same scale would apply to all, regardless of family ties, or even in the absence of any family ties, with three tranches: a tax of 30% up to 800000 euros, then 45% up to 1600000 euros, and finally 60% beyond. This text therefore renews the ambition of inheritance and donation fees, by changing their logic and scale, but also by significantly extending their base, since it finally submits life insurance to them. In total, this proposal increases taxation on the transmission of very large assets while reducing it for the vast majority of French people, thus working to correct and even eliminate the imbalances accumulated over the last forty years. The taxation of inheritance is too rarely addressed in our walls, yet the urgency is becoming more and more urgent: for the past forty years, the return to power of inheritance, first insidious, but increasingly visible, has made the promise of republican equality lie a little more every day. However, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we know that this question does not leave you indifferent. A brief impetus had seized some of you, two years ago: in September 2018, Christophe Castaner, the then leader of the La République en marche party, called for his wishes for a "tabou-free reflection" on the taxation of estates in order to combat the "progress of the inequalities of birth", while Stanislas Guerini also said he was in favour of a reform of the taxation of estates because, he rightly said, "the inherited heritage deepens inequalities".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u180	This momentum quickly fell back, but it was legitimate, since it took its source at the very birth of your movement. Minister and candidate Emmanuel Macron wanted to give priority to risk in the face of rent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u181	He forgot, after...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u182	It is this logic which, it seems, led to the reform of the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, which aimed to transform it into a "tax on real estate rent".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u184	The preference for merit and equality of opportunity, against rent and against established interests, had also appeared in 2015 in the title of the famous law for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities. Colleagues, what better way to restore this beautiful equality than by reducing the inequality par excellence, that related to the wealth that one derives from his birth? It is indeed this kind of privilege that the representatives of the nation wanted to abolish during the night of August 4, so that never again can one be rich of anything but born, and nothing more. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] This bill provides an opportunity to recast the Republican Pact on modern bases to ensure real equality of opportunity. It is a text of the future, of solidarity and progress, at the service of the younger generations and those to come, which is fully in line with the logic of the letter sent only a few days ago to the Prime Minister by certain members of the majority, including Pierre Person, Hugues Renson or Coralie Dubost, to name but a few. I hope that this bill will receive the widest possible approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u185	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u186	The subject that you are addressing with this bill, the rapporteur, is indeed sensitive, since 87% of French people say that they are hostile to any form of inheritance tax; and you were right to point out how paradoxical this figure is, since 65% of them are not affected by inheritance tax, or even by the exemption of transfer duties on ex gratia transfers. Nevertheless, it is a subject that has been debated regularly. You recalled a political initiative dating back to September 2018: the then delegate general of La République en marche had launched a debate on inheritance rights – a legitimate debate, but in which the Government had chosen not to enter. I also have in mind another political initiative: in October 2019, I was representing the Government in the Senate on the occasion of the consideration of a bill tabled by the president of the Socialist and Republican group, Patrick Kanner, which – back to the text that you are defending today – reduced the time for charging fees from 15 to 10 years, increased the reduction, especially for the farthest relatives, and finally significantly eased inheritance rights. You have also rightly pointed out that during the consideration of the 2021 finance bill, a number of parliamentarians have, quite legitimately, defended a reform of inheritance rights. The Government did not wish to follow these proposals. Why have these successive initiatives not been implemented? The answer is simple: the Government, with the support of its majority, has chosen stability in terms of transfer and inheritance taxes. We consider that the provisions adopted in the summer of 2012 concerning the amount of the reductions and the time limit for recharging, increased to 15 years, are good. You voted on them, Madam rapporteur; Me too. You mentioned a 2017 study that might call for some methodological remarks as it is the INSEE Heritage Survey, which does not list all the transmissions received; We believe that this image is certainly interesting, but perhaps too partial, and that the investigation should be further developed. We also consider that, in the area of taxation, the question of inheritances, beyond donations in the course of life, needs to be receded; It is necessary to give some time to the reforms before assessing them. It is because we have made the choice of stability and because we consider the provisions voted in the summer of 2012 to be relevant that the Government is against the bill that you are defending tonight. In our view, there are several technical elements to support this unfavourable opinion. First of all, the current 15-year fiscal report encourages redistribution between generations, and the stability attached to this deadline is an important element in the crisis we are going through. We believe that people who wish to pass on their assets should not wait for their deaths to do so and should anticipate transmission through donations throughout life. I think you share this idea...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u187	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u188	... to the extent that you yourself have emphasized that life expectancy is increasing and that the age we can expect to reach is reflected in a form of concentration that requires that one can pass on his heritage throughout life to enable those who begin in life to be accompanied by their elders. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the removal, which you propose, of any modulation according to kinship, in donations and inheritances is an interesting substantive debate, but it seems to us to have potentially harmful effects in the perception that the French will have of such a measure. It seems to us that not to reproduce tax-related differences in civil law would have the effect of discouraging transfers and donations to children and ending the preferential tax system in force since 2007 for the benefit of the surviving spouse. In other words, the provisions of the Bill "crush" the situation in which the surviving spouse is exempt from transfer duties. Finally, we have one final point of disagreement: we consider that the estate life insurance tax system, even if you have challenged it, meets a long-term purpose of holding assets involved in the financing of the economy. Indeed, a significant part of life insurance is invested in funds in euros; But, in the current period, we believe that we should have financial tools and savings that would strengthen the sovereign nature of the debt. That is why we do not want to go in the direction of changing this tax system. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, as you have understood, Madam rapporteur, the Government's opinion is unfavourable. I repeat our commitment to the stability of the tax provisions and to the stability of the fifteen-year deadline and the ceiling of EUR 100 000, measures taken almost nine years ago. I also repeat that we are convinced that it takes time for a reform of the inheritance tax system to be fully evaluated on the basis of the most comprehensive possible elements. The Government therefore calls for the rejection of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u189	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u190	This bill is essential. Inequalities are exploding and heritage transmission is strongly involved. One figure to illustrate this: between 1998 and 2015, if the overall heritage of the French doubled, it fell for the least endowed 20%. The balance between capital and labour, which should be in favour of the latter, the fruit of each person's effort, is reversed, and it is the patrimony made available by chance of life that supplants the one given to the sweat of his forehead. At this rate, transmissions are expected to account for 31 per cent of disposable income in 2050. This obvious inequality is not worthy of our ideal of fairness. The possessors get richer, the workers get poorer: it is illogical and dangerous for a democratic society. The company of heirs of the Belle Époque is not what we aspire to for our beautiful Republic. It must be admitted that when it comes to fiscal and social injustice, you are doing a lot. You're the champions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u192	You checked all the boxes to favor the richest. The loop is closed because you have worked at all levels: income tax, corporate tax, wealth tax... You have only shyly fought against tax evasion and optimisation; You have maintained tax niches like life insurance, which I will return to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u193	Anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u194	Your transformation from the ISF to the IFI, the property tax, and the PFU, the single flat-rate levy, are the first markers of your policy at the service of the richest. With these devices, your message to the most affluent is clear: "Buy movable property, shares, etc., it will not count in your wealth, you will not be taxed for these investment choices. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u195	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u196	To those same rich in finance, you also say: "On the income of this wealth – dividends, in a way –, don't worry: you will be able to benefit from the PFU, at a tax rate of only 12.8% on the income of capital. This is less than the rate in the first tax bracket on labour income, which is 14%. Once these assets are formed comes the time of transmission, with taxes on estates and donations. Again, you didn't have the courage to close the door to tax niches, especially life insurance. A reminder of the dimensions of this niche: it is, we can doubt it, the preferred placement of the French, with 54 million life insurance contracts for 18 million holders and 38 million beneficiaries. The outstanding amount is estimated at EUR 1800 billion. Who owns it, and for what amounts? It's amazing: for the first decile of the population, the average amount is 1,800 euros; for the ninth decile, EUR 725,000; As for the last percentile, it is EUR 4.3 million. There is, therefore, much to be done to achieve equity in this area. It is for all these reasons that I support the bill of my very esteemed colleague Christine Pires Beaune. Its text will make it possible to establish a single scale, with an individual lifetime allowance of 300000 euros and, beyond that amount, instalments of 30 %, 45 % and 60 % according to income. This is a progressive logic based on the principle of equity. In short, with the exemption threshold below 300000 euros, the advantage integrates the middle classes and is intended to be progressive for the contribution of the richest. The text is to the extent of social justice that we call for: alleviating taxation for the vast majority of French people who are now experiencing inequality, and increasing it for the greatest assets that are too largely escaped. The text goes back, in the end, to the balance between rent and merit; merit is gaining ground, and that's so much better. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Unlike what currently exists, the text also has the great advantage of being simple and understandable, and it avoids the optimization calculations of those who spend their time searching for a breach in the complexity of the devices. This reform is based on an ideal of justice; Let us make this ideal a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u197	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u198	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u199	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u200	As they did in committee last week, the members of the Action Group would like to sincerely thank Christine Pires Beaune for the quality of her work. The taxation of donations and inheritances is a particularly complex subject whose implications for the lives of our fellow citizens are major. The text you are proposing to us is accompanied by a detailed statement of reasons, despite a lack of data provided by the tax administration which we can only deplore. The bill opens up interesting avenues that have the advantage of legibility, which is not very much in the area of taxation – and, more importantly, taxation in the area of donations and inheritances. Clearly, this is an important issue that deserves an open and constructive debate in the light of the findings you have recalled: inequality of wealth, the risk of an annuitant society and the breakdown of the social elevator, to name but a few. Having said that, the text suffers from several faults. The first two are not yours, Madam rapporteur, but they are particularly blocking. A significant reform of the DMTG – free transfer rights – as you propose here cannot be agreed apart from a more comprehensive reflection on the taxation of assets. The paradigm shift you call of your wishes must be integrated into a broader reform; However, the lack of accurate data provided by the tax administration does not, as it stands, allow for a calm and comprehensive reform of the LMDAs. On the substance, we note several points of disagreement with the reform that you are presenting. In particular, you propose to move to a single scale, regardless of the relationship between the donor and the donee. If we understand the philosophy of this proposal, we do not share it. We believe that a separate scale for direct online donations makes sense and that we must preserve it, while making changes to it to better take into account the family realities of our time. I would add that it would be interesting to encourage the donations of the living so that they benefit the age groups who need them most. As you point out in your explanatory memorandum, estates are becoming more and more active, benefiting people who are less in need of capital. I am convinced that there is a need to improve the current system to further encourage donations in order to allow younger generations to benefit from a capital contribution at the time they need it most. It seems to me that this is a blind spot in your bill. Finally, we believe that the alignment of life insurance taxation with inheritance taxation is not appropriate at this stage without an in-depth prior impact study. Given the amount of outstanding assets and the current context, the taxation of life insurance must be handled with great caution. On the other hand, it must be restored to its original role, which you recalled in your opening remarks: investment in the real economy. Several initiatives are already under way on this issue, which need to be expanded and encouraged. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] Thus, while we recognize the quality of the work of our colleague Pires Beaune and the need to reform the taxation of donations and inheritances, the solutions proposed have not received our full support. Moreover, as we have said since the beginning of the crisis, the time has not come to increase taxation, in a particularly turbulent context. For all these reasons, our group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u201	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u202	"Despite the economic crisis caused by confinement, the heritage of France's first 500 fortunes has not collapsed. On the contrary, at 730 billion euros, it has never been so high. It is Challenges magazine, which is not classified in the extreme left, that gives us this confidence. He continues: "Our 500s have greatly increased their weight in the economy. They weigh the equivalent of one third of GDP expected this year. Twenty years ago, they weighed 5% of GDP; On the arrival of Emmanuel Macron in power, this figure rose to 25%; Today it is 33 per cent. That is to say, if dynasties have settled, a Republic of annuitants, a France of heirs! [[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] This awareness is widely shared because the proposal that you are making this evening, the rapporteur, although drawn from the socialist ranks, is very consensual. It is in line with Emmanuel Macron's programme, which, as a candidate in 2017, wanted to promote risk in the face of rent, these are his words, and to encourage the taxation of succession to ISF-type taxes, the solidarity tax on wealth. In the wake of this, he was supported by Christophe Castaner: "A thought without taboo about a fundamental overhaul of taxation on inheritances" is necessary in order to combat "the progression of inequalities of birth". It was the fight against privileges that was being waged by the Republic on the move. Stanislas Guerini went on to say: "Thinking about inheritance rights can make sense, because inherited heritage deepens inequalities. Finally, the reflection stopped along the way: the taboo remains, the preference for rent too. We were entitled to the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth but, not touching, nothing about inheritance. You are here today to complete this program. The transmission of heritage is at the heart of inequalities. One third of the French will receive nothing, no inheritance during their entire existence and half will receive less than 8,500 euros. And 87% of French people, or nine out of ten French, will receive less than 100,000 euros in total during their lifetime. It is a matter of leaving them alone, especially today, not to touch their legacy, but to concentrate on the 10% of the top since that is where the engine of inequality lies. With regard to income inequality, the ratio is one to five between the poorest 10 per cent and the richest 10 per cent. As for wealth inequalities, the ratio is 1 to 200 between the poorest 10 per cent and the richest 10 per cent and it rises from 1 to 600 between the poorest 10 per cent and the 1 per cent of the summit – not to mention those mentioned in Challenges. In general, with these inheritances, money goes to money, those who inherit were already rich before. There is a 45 per cent rate of inheritance tax. However, this rate is absolutely fictitious: no one is taxed at 45%. In general, assets are taxed between 3 and 5 % because life insurance is exempt from taxation, because there is a discount of 100,000 euros per child, a discount on the main residence, niches on monuments, forests, businesses. There's the smart people who know how to use this, and the others who don't know it. One leads to a transmission of wealth – and thus inequality – almost intact. With your proposal that is close to ours, it is not about hacking rates, scales, niches, etc. but to come out of this logic and propose another, on the model of Ireland, which I will call a kind of progressive inheritance: no tax on the first 100,000 euros affected, no tax for 90% of the French, but a progressive rate for those who earn more than 100,000 euros throughout their lives. I would like to highlight the particular moment at which you are making this proposal. In one year, there were a million more poor people. They are massively young people, doubly punished not only because they have to confide because of the crisis of the covid -19 but also because they find themselves trapped in poverty when their poverty rate was already three times higher than that of those over 65. I believe it is necessary to shift tax revenues towards young people, in particular in order to combat inequalities in their access to housing. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] Finally, I call on our fellow Members to have the courage to vote for a law that goes against our particular interests, against the interests of our caste. For one must tell the truth: 90% of the French will receive a legacy of less than 100,000 euros, while I am convinced that 90% of the Members – and I am one of them – will pass on or receive more than 100,000 euros in the course of their existence. I invite them to join us and to vote for a law of progress that does not come to break but rather to halt this Republic of heirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u203	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u204	I thank the members of the Socialist Group, in particular Mrs Pires Beaune, for this bill. The issue of inheritance rights is indeed a politically sensitive subject, the primary source of the reproduction of inequalities. The inheritance also affects the desire to pass on a heritage to its descendants. This debate is undeniably taking place in economic, philosophical and social justice terms. It is therefore sensitive, and very paradoxical: while inheritance taxes only cover 35% of inheritances at a rate of less than 3%, they are probably the most unpopular tax. Like the drafters of the law, we will note the reduction in the taxation of capital in recent years, particularly as a result of the introduction of a single flat-rate levy of 30% and the abolition of the ISF on securities. As a result, the conditions for widening inequalities have been created. The figures are there: the richest 10% receive 50% of the annual volume of transmissions, while the poorest 50% receive only 7%. Thus, a number of recent work by economists has shown that inheritance weighs increasingly heavily in the hyper-concentration of wealth. At the same time, multiple niches, landings and special devices have accumulated. The taxation of estates has become complex and has attracted many criticisms. Reform of the taxation of inheritance and donation rights is therefore now necessary. In 2016, Emmanuel Macron, then a candidate, declared: "If we have a preference for the risk to the annuity, which is my case, we must prefer the taxation on succession to ISF-type taxes. In September 2018, the delegate general of the Republic on the march of the time, Christophe Castaner, had wished to open a taboo reflection on the taxation of estates, a boldness that Emmanuel Macron put an end to by indicating that he, President, would not be affected by this tax. However, this non-receivable aim has not extinguished the debate. One could mention the notes of France Stratégie or, more recently, a forum of deputies of La République in progress published in Le Journal du dimanche. If the general philosophy of this bill goes in the right direction, bringing simplification and justice, we consider it impossible to reform the DMTGs by exempting ourselves from a reflection on the whole taxation of wealth. I'm thinking about the IFI or part of the income tax. As our colleague Charles de Courson said in committee, in France we have two taxes: an annual fixed rate tax on capital and inheritance taxes. However, they must be chosen or at least best articulated, which is not the case at present. It is in this perspective that in 2019, in our written contribution to the Letter to the French, the Libertés et territoires group proposed to re-found the taxation of heritage and inheritance rights. It left the choice to the French: either they pay a tax on the holding of the property from a certain threshold without any tax on the estates, or they do not pay it in return for a tax when transmitting their assets. A mixed solution would then be to consider that the holding tax would be deducted from the transfer tax. Such a reform would be associated with a transfer of part of the taxation of assets and estates to the communities, particularly in Corsica and overseas because of the social and historical specificities relating to land and considerable undivided situations. The proposal for a law by our colleagues in the Socialist Group makes another choice. The two flagship measures, the lifetime tax reminder and the single reduction of €300,000, are stimulating. However, they ignore the closeness of family ties. As for the alignment of the taxation of life insurance with the common law, its impact and economic effects would undoubtedly merit further study. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] In conclusion, let us note that this text has the merit of creating a debate here on an issue which, I know, divides the majority. Given the deteriorating state of our public accounts, and whatever the Government says, we will not be able to save on these debates in the months and years to come. It is a budgetary imperative and an imperative of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u205	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u206	"All discourses describing inequalities as natural and inevitable are broken by history," said Piketty recently. Over the past 20 years, the share of total wealth held by the richest French has been growing. In 2018, it reached one third for the richest 5% and 16% for only 1% of them. If this is possible, it is because since the 2000s the different governments have made a political choice, an ideological choice, that of allowing inequalities to grow. It will not have escaped anyone that this majority has pursued and amplified this logic with a tax policy more than accommodating towards the most affluent. Justified by the hectic theory of run-off and the figure of the innovative entrepreneur who became millionaire but stifled by taxation, the reduction of capital taxes ultimately led only to an increase in inequality. France Stratégie confirmed this in September 2000. This is in no way a surprise as the starting point was wrong. Far from being a society where taxation breaks the individual and innovative momentum of young workers, France is characterized rather by the reproduction of many family dynasties, an income society that Emmanuel Macron said he wanted to fight in 2017. In this context, a proposal for a law to increase taxation on the transmission of high-value assets should receive broad support. As with the progressive taxation of capital, the tax on transmissions must be strengthened in order to reduce economic inequalities and prevent their reproduction over time. Today, it is largely based on the most affluent 10%, but there are many circumvention mechanisms. Thus, with the multiplication of the discounts and the taking into account of the transmissions by pairs, it is possible to pass on every fifteen years several hundred thousand euros to its descendants without paying any tax. Such arrangements therefore go far beyond the framework of family solidarity, which is already widely guaranteed for the working and middle classes, since, let us recall, the median legacy in France is 30000 euros. On the other hand, they make it easy to avoid taxation, both that which would take place at the time of succession, but also that on capital which applied with the ISF before your majority abolished it. On the basis of this observation, this bill thus helps to combat this generational reproduction of inequalities. By taking account not of transmissions independently of each other, but of the cumulative stock of all transmissions, the proposed system will finally make it possible to stop the fiscal optimisation which takes place, in particular through the multiplication of the donations of the living. The text also aims to simplify the tax system. With multiple discounts, different scales depending on the relationship, more or less challenged assets, the current schemes are too complex and reduce consent to this tax. Many French people are concerned, especially the smallest patrimony, who often want to pass on to their children the small savings they have accumulated or the family home they have been able to buy. It is therefore essential to make this tax more readable, more progressive and more appropriate for today's society, in particular by introducing a single scale and reduction. The scale proposed here reinforces the higher rates by raising the marginal rate to 60 per cent. With regard to the single reduction, it is fixed at EUR 300000. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC group. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] This innovative and ambitious bill is therefore a good initiative and I would like to commend the work of its rapporteur, our colleague Christine Pires Beaune. It simplifies taxation, but above all it responds to rising economic inequalities. Let us never forget that the fight to reduce them is in no way an abstract or theoretical posture, on the contrary. When inequalities increase, social, geographical or cultural inequalities in turn grow and fragment our society. Combating them is therefore an imperative with very real socio-economic effects. That is why the rapporteur, we will support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u207	Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u208	The majority will continue for the French, with them, its momentum of transformation, the result of a broad co-construction in favour of an innovative and global system that promotes merit, directs the heritage towards the real economy, takes into account the plurality of families and contemporary demographic evolution. This is not what the text we are looking at at at night, which aims to increase the tax on inheritance by aligning, in particular, the taxation of life insurance, the preferred savings product of French people, of which EUR 60 billion is invested annually in our SMEs and TPEs on the common law. However, 87% of French people are against the increase in taxes on donations and inheritances. [[Disapproving smokes on SOC benches]] For the past year, our citizens have been experiencing an unprecedented health crisis, with unprecedented economic and social consequences. Part of the economic rebound is through consumption, confidence in demand and in the future, and fiscal stability, but you want to increase taxes. While the Government and the majority, the services of the State, the living forces of the nation are mobilized on a daily basis to cope with the crisis, to stand by, to support our caregivers, our young people, our entrepreneurs, our elders, to put on the track the revival through the ecological and digital transformation, you wish to have passed in the middle of the night a bill on such a major subject, against the consent of the French, without consultation with the professionals of the sector, without consultation with the tax administration or civil society. While the tax administration will be able by 2023, thanks to the introduction of the "e-registration", to give us a basis for reflection, you prefer to legislate blindly, without measuring the impact on public finances. Our society is ageing, family models are plural, the orientation of heritage towards the real and productive economy is still perfectable. Fifteen of the 35 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries have already abolished inheritance tax. France ranks third among the countries where wealth taxation is the heaviest, but you continue to recycle retrograde ideas. One of your own, Didier Migaud, former Socialist Member of Parliament and former first President of the Court of Auditors, said that increasing taxation on inheritance was first penalizing the middle classes, but you insist on ignoring consent to tax. On the other side of the House – they are not here to defend their amendments, it is a pity – some also claim to reform by changing a few rates at random in a purely accounting logic, while they merely revive the fiscal policy of the Sarkozy quinquennium, again without consultation, without studying the impact on public finances, without debate. As our Republic honors itself in giving each of us the freedom to choose whom he wants to pass on the fruit of a lifetime of work. You wish to confiscate this freedom, while undermining the efforts of the French. We wish to open the debate on new freedoms of our fellow citizens for more self-determination of their transmission. Unpopular, obsolete and counterproductive: that is how I would describe your proposal as a law, and that is why the La République en marche group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u209	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] No one applauds!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u210	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u211	First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this bill. The taxation of succession remains largely unknown to our fellow citizens and has a bad opinion press. We are rarely confronted with it if not when a relative dies, when material issues weigh very little in the face of the pain felt. We agree with you, Madam rapporteur, on the need to reform inheritance costs because of the increase in life expectancy and the consequences of this in terms of dependency and the decline in the age of inheritance. This is an important issue that will need to be seriously addressed in the future. There are, however, several reasons why we oppose this text, first and foremost the lack of budgetary visibility of such a reform. While free transfer fees generate €12 billion for estates and €3 billion for donations, the budgetary consequences of the reform you are proposing are not assessed. We do not want you to do so because we know how difficult it is for parliamentarians that we are to access complete data, which makes it even more difficult to propose dynamic evaluations of our proposals. However, with regard to budgetary issues, we believe that if the debate is to be conducted today, we cannot reasonably legislate after a few hours of discussion. The more fundamental are our differences in analysis. You worry about intergenerational inequalities, with good reason, but you completely rule out the issue of intergenerational inequalities. Worse still, your proposal for a lifetime tax recall may strengthen them by severely disinciting donations, while it is the opposite that should be done: reduce the duration of the recall period and increase the reduction limits in the case of donations, especially to grandchildren. Indeed, one of the problems we face is the weak circulation of heritage between generations. More and longer-lived heritage holders, when they die their heirs, are more than 50 years old, a professional career that is already well advanced and often already owned, while the professional, family and real estate needs of the younger age group face a lack of liquidity and a high cost of real estate. Economists have also shown that donations have a positive effect on business start-up and therefore on employment, especially when the donee is under 35 years of age, while estates often open up later. Your life insurance proposals are just as interesting, as the sums invested in life insurance remain predominantly invested in guaranteed capital euro funds. The life insurance scheme thus undermines the financing objectives of the economy. We share your observation, but here again our answers diverge. You intend to place all life insurance stocks on the transfer fee schedule when I think that in this area we need to be a little more subtle. Many measures have been adopted in recent years, notably in the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law, to encourage the use of life insurance funds to better finance the economy through instruments such as the Euro-growth fund. Units of account are increasingly required in contracts. Similarly, the increase in the units of account labeled "responsible social investment" indicates a positive dynamic in terms of the orientation of life insurance savings. Reform of the inheritance rules for life insurance is probably necessary in the medium term, but what you are proposing – a uniform regime, whether the sums are invested in euro funds or account funds – will probably have to be preferred to a differentiated regime depending on whether savings are directed towards the productive economy or not. But this change can only take place in the medium term: it is not in times of instability that the taxation of this product needs to be reviewed. Let us not repeat the errors of 2011-2013. The emergency is to control the health crisis and to revive the economy. Let us not worry the French, when on the contrary we must restore them confidence in the future. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, our political family is committed to what the family represents and therefore to the rules of inheritance deriving from the civil code. This bill raises good questions, but by defending an erroneous view of the family and the needs of the economy, it lacks the essentials. It is for this reason that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u212	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u213	Economist Pascal Salin, professor emeritus of the Paris-Dauphine University, wrote in Le Figaro a few years ago: "What is at stake in the inheritance is first and foremost the property rights of the deceased. If someone has spent his whole life accumulating a wealth, not without having paid for the impressive amounts of taxes, in the name of what principle can he be deprived of the right to bequeath to his children, to friends, to a charitable or cultural work, all his belongings? How could death allow the state to seize much of the property in question? Certainly Pascal Salin is at the opposite end of the thought that governs your bill since, according to him, "we should consider as an inescapable moral duty to respect the freedom of anyone, rich or poor, to transmit as he wishes what he legitimately accumulated during his life. Therefore, as far as inheritance rights are concerned, there is no reform worthy of interest other than to abolish them". I am pleased to say that I am more in tune with Professor Salin than with your desire to make the State the main heir of the French. From my discussions with a notary in my constituency, I noted: "The real problem is the legal and fiscal uncertainty that legislative inflation is putting on the projects of our fellow citizens, wherever they are on the social scale, through constant reforms, including our family law. How, indeed, do we plan anything professional or heritage and build a sustainable strategy when we change discount, rate, duration, sometimes several times in the same decade? Living in perpetual reform prevents citizens from building because without a coherent strategy it is difficult to build projects. » And now your bill wants to kind of upset everything, to reform everything, in addition to designating culprits because the philosophy behind your text is this: to strike with the seal of suspicion any person wishing to bequeath to his offspring or to his loved ones the labor of a lifetime. I would remind you, however, that on an international scale, France is one of the countries that imposes the most on inheritances and donations. By trying to draw even more, in an disproportionate way, from the heritage of French families, you show your disillusionment, not to say your disdain, with regard to the vast majority of citizens who hope that the fruit of their work will enable them to constitute a heritage, which they will be able to transmit within their families. In this respect, the reduction of EUR 300 000 for all seems at first glance to be a sound and generous idea. Thus, each citizen would individually have an envelope of 300,000 euros, to be charged on any donation or inheritance received during his or her life. Once this ceiling is exceeded, the citizen would be taxed at 30% of what he receives up to €800,000 in excess of the allowance, then 45% up to €1.6 million, and finally 60% beyond. But 30 % of inheritance rights from 300 000 euros, after the continuous series of taxations that a citizen must suffer in order to constitute a heritage, it is as indecent as to stigmatize this citizen for his social success. As for the lifetime tax reminder, it is a levelling by the base that will help to put out a little more any desire for evolution. On the other hand, the removal of the exemption from the rights of the surviving spouse is a real step backwards: choosing to ensure the protection of the spouse by means of property arrangements, rather than by right, seems unprotective to people, especially those who are not accustomed to resorting to tax or notarial councils for example. Finally, to exclude from your reform the effects of the Dutreil Pact because of the economic difficulties linked to the health crisis, while explaining that this scheme costs France 500 million euros a year, without putting in perspective its beneficial effects on the sustainability of companies for example, is of the same level as to abolish overnight the tax exemption of life insurance, without any proposal for a transition. Rather than preventing people from hoping, it would be wiser to work seriously in search of obvious tax savings, because attacking the taxation of estates amounts to attacking family values and robbing everyone's freedom to make use of his or her money that he or she wants, quite simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u214	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u215	I find myself faced with a dilemma: either I answer each of you, but in this case I would probably not have answered all of you before midnight, or we will proceed directly to the discussion of the amendments. It is this path that I will choose, not without making a few remarks beforehand. I invite all those who have rightly denounced the data deficit to vote on the additional article after Article 6 requesting a report. To those who consider this proposal for an untimely reform in the midst of a health crisis, I will reply that by further aggravating inequalities, the health crisis reinforces the urgency of such a reform. As for life insurance, I maintain that it is a tax niche, and a very powerfully protected tax niche. First of all, I invite all those who have denounced the lack of data to vote for the amendment that I will defend after Article 6 and which seeks to request a report from the Government because, in fact, we lack data. Secondly, to those who say that the health crisis renders this reform untimely, I will reply that it is, on the contrary, because the health crisis further aggravates inequalities that it is urgent to vote for this reform. As for life insurance, I maintain that it is a tax niche, and a very, very powerful niche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u216	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u217	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u218	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, on Rule 1, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u219	The tax reminder for life, which this article aims to introduce, has already been debated in committee and we have repeated in the House that it will immobilise the heritage of the French, that it will freeze transmissions between the living and that our citizens will be afraid to commit themselves to a transmission. In addition, it will create instability, while in the last ten or fifteen years the taxation of wealth has not been stopped. Let us leave to our fellow citizens some peace and fiscal stability, especially in the midst of a health crisis, at a time when we need all their confidence so that the savings generated during the containment phases can be directed towards the real economy. The French must have confidence in the future of future generations, the future of their children and grandchildren, and know under which regime they will be able to pass on their heritage. Moreover, this lifetime tax reminder is confiscatory, in the long term, because the heritage evolves, in particular the real estate heritage, which accounts for the largest share of transmissions, since more than half of the French are owners of their main residence whose price varies over time. The proposed mechanism is therefore counterproductive and we will vote against Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u220	We don't live in the same world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u221	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u222	Madam rapporteur, this Article 1 represents the heart of your text, but also the heart of what separates us. Its adoption would be tantamount to removing any tax incentives for donations. While it is true that donations primarily benefit those who have a heritage, it is also true that they speed up the circulation of heritage between generations, with positive effects on the economy and on the lives of our fellow citizens, especially the younger ones. The inheritances, as we know, come more and more later for the heirs, because of the lengthening of life, and that is so much better, but they do not bring the same benefit as before because, often, people are already settled in life. On the other hand, donations help to set up and take over businesses, but also to buy a principal residence in a context where real estate prices are rising. Unlike you, we believe that they should be supported rather than discouraged. It is therefore in this spirit that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will not vote for this article, but for the deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u223	On Article 1, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 19 by Christine Pires Beaune is editorial. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u224	I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u225	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u226	Currently, the allowance for donations is reset to zero every 15 years. Section 1 proposes that the tax be calculated by massaging all that has been received during the life of the beneficiary, the objective – to which we subscribe – is to limit the avoidance effects of taxation on estates. However, while this strengthened framework limits tax optimisation, it is not necessarily adapted to the transfer of capital in Corsica, where the situation is historically more complex and requires special treatment which we call for. In substance, the question goes far beyond my mere intervention on a niche amendment. We have the ambition to raise, once again, the problem of taxation of the transfer of assets in Corsica and, more broadly, the need for a tax status of development and justice which is adapted to Corsica. That is not the subject of the amendment, but it had to be said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u228	Mrs Goulet, section 1 is the heart of this bill. We could have proposed a parametric reform by changing a discount by this or an exemption by that, for example by changing the degree of transmission, but it is not at all what we are doing with this text that proposes a systemic reform and reverses the paradigm, placing itself on the side of the receiving one. The foundation of our approach is simple: we have no merit to receive. The reminder for life is thus based on the idea that, if there is certainly no merit, one can still receive 300,000 euros without having to pay anything, throughout his life. This amount of 300000 euros, which may seem to be a lot of money for some and very little for others, must be reconciled with other figures, such as the amount of the median gross wealth, which is 163000 euros, or that of the average wealth, which is 276000 euros, the average amount of the estates, i.e. 135000 euros, or their median amount, i.e. 41000 euros. The figure of EUR 300 000 was therefore not chosen at random, but to protect the middle classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u229	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u230	Mr Castellani, I cannot be in favour of your amendment, which goes the opposite of what we are proposing, since it opens up a breach in the scheme that I am proposing by re-establishing a ten-year renewal of the reduction in rights, whereas we are proposing to abolish this reduction. Finally, the lifetime tax reminder is not an invention of the socialists: it was in force in France for fifty years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u231	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u232	... from its creation in 1942 until 1992, and I do not think that during this period there have been any disasters with regard to the transmission of heritage. It is, on the other hand, a fair measure, which is indeed the heart of this bill, with the end of the life insurance exemption in the context of estates. Mr Castellani, the opinion is therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u234	It is unfavourable, for three reasons. The first is that the concept of successions "located in Corsica", retained by the author of the amendment, is not sufficiently defined in law. The second is the fact that introducing a ten-year period in favour of the only donations and successions "located in Corsica", to use the expression used in the amendment, carries a risk of unconstitutionality in the name of the principle of equality. Finally, in the case of buildings located in Corsica, measures to promote cadastral remediation and the resorption of property disorder are already in force until 2027, since there is an exemption of 50 % from inheritance duties on immovables and property rights provided for in Article 1135a of the General Tax Code. In addition, acts of division of succession are exempt from the right of 2.5 % up to the value of immovables, pursuant to Article 750 bis B of the General Tax Code. These provisions seem to us to be quite complete. They are provisional and derogatory in nature, and it does not seem appropriate to add a new and even more derogatory measure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u235	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u236	It is a shame that we cannot continue such an important debate and that we will have to have, in one way or another, before the end of this mandate. I do not agree at all with you, Madam rapporteur, on the systemic reform that you are proposing, and I note two points of blockage. The first concerns life insurance, which is not just a stock of EUR 1800 billion, but a dynamic that needs to be examined closely. While, for the past year, we have grown from 27% to 36% of units of account, and we are going to need this savings in the coming months and years, not only for French companies, but also for European companies, it would be quite negative to send a message that would necessarily and mechanically cause a withdrawal of funds placed on these accounts. In any case, I object formally. The second blocking point is the risk of eviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u237	Don't touch the niches!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u238	We often have discussions about this, but I would like to point out that you have undertaken the repatriation of property and assets, including financial assets, with the STDR, the processing service for amending declarations, which has been a success. The tax measures we took at the beginning of this Parliament have increased the repatriation of a number of assets and related tax revenues. By grace, let us not create a "return match" at the end of this crisis, by recreating a risk of eviction. You are well aware that your bill would cause capital and wealth to leak. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are the two main reasons why I must say that we absolutely must not vote on this bill – even if it is clear that we will not be at the end of its consideration. We must not do tricks, parametrics, but think in very operational terms about how to promote donations rather than successions, daring to dissociate their currently identical scales, and asking ourselves whether the scale of the donation should not possibly be reduced. However, the systemic reform you are proposing seems dangerous to me for the attractiveness of the country, especially in times of crisis and recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u239	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u240	I fully agree with the rapporteur-general. Madam rapporteur, we do not agree with the heart of your bill. You stand on the side of the person who receives, but if we want to give to our children or leave them by succession, upon our death, after having worked our whole life,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u241	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u242	...the money, the capital we were able to put aside to protect them from want,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u243	We offer 300,000 euros without taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u244	... it is quite surprising that we want to intervene on this heritage in a confiscatory way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u245	Confiscatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u246	We don't live in the same world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u247	We do not refer to the same paradigm at all. There are certainly things to be done, as the rapporteur-general says and perhaps it would be necessary, since successions come late, to formalize simpler arrangements for donations in order to help the younger ones earlier in life,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u248	What young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u249	... and review the system applicable to estates, but that's not what you're proposing, which does not suit us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u250	They want to help young people but they don't give them the RSA!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u251	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u252	There are two goals, which are not necessarily conciliatable. One is a goal of efficiency: it is that people give their wealth long before they die, because they die older and you want to accelerate the transmission of non-productive capital. The other is a goal of justice,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u253	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u254	...the purpose of not having a Republic of the heirs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u255	They're not heirs, they're people who worked!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u256	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... but you completely eliminate this second objective in the name of efficiency alone. You make us hear a lament in which you ask how you will be able to give money to your children with these confiscatory measures. However, the rapporteur tells you that there will be no taxation of up to EUR 300 000 per child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u257	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u258	Do you realize how huge it is,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u259	Three hundred thousand euros! Where do you live?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u260	...how huge does this amount seem for the vast majority of people in this country? If you use the adjective "confiscatory" for the proposal to tax at 30% estates and donations from 300000 euros,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u261	It's the principle that bothers me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u262	... when there are really confiscatory measures, you will feel them passing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u263	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u264	Taxing 30% above 300,000 euros is really not confiscatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u265	The majority have principles with variable geometry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u266	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u267	I would like to respond to what Mr Perrine Goulet has just said, that young people should be helped by giving them a little more. We agree. So why, this morning, did you refuse our proposal to create a capital endowment of 5000 euros for all young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u268	It's to give companies better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u269	We fully agree to help young people by giving them a boost to entering life. It was you who voted against the capital allocation this morning. I therefore do not understand your reasoning, which is variable geometry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u270	I wasn't here this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u271	Your group voted against: therefore, in solidarity, you voted against it. [[Laurence Dumont applauds]] Your reasoning, I repeat, is of varying geometry, and this does not seem to me the best way to contribute to the unity of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u272	Pursuant to Rule 50(4) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall end at midnight, I shall adjourn the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1178.u273	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Further to the discussion of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. The meeting is adjourned.
