ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Government's policy in favour of associations. We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes without the right to reply. We start with two questions from the Republic Group on the move. Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u2	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, 1.3 million associations, present throughout the national territory, occupy an essential place in the daily life of the French. Thus, by the end of 2018, a roadmap "Associative Life" was presented by the Government in order to take a series of fifteen measures aimed at promoting the development of associative life. They have demonstrated how close the Government is to the associations and how grateful the State is to them for their contribution to the public interest. Today, I think it is appropriate to take a further step on the progress of the measures taken over the past year. Successive confinements have deprived the voluntary world of revenues essential to their balance. According to the survey of the Association Movement, last September, 4000 employers' associations are threatened to disappear and nearly 30,000 associations are at risk of depositing a balance sheet. We can of course welcome the various arrangements introduced by the French State since the beginning of the health crisis to safeguard the French community fabric. The FDVA, a fund for the development of associative life, is a major tool to help it during the crisis and thus maintain the various innovative projects. This is particularly true for the small and medium-sized associations that are the pride of my department, the Haute-Saône. Will FDVA credits not used due to lack of projects be retained at the departmental level for next year? Furthermore, can you trace the action taken by the Government since the beginning of 2020 in favour of associations? Are you able to reassure millions of members and volunteers about the state's commitments to the voluntary world for the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u3	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u4	Indeed, the Government has made a significant commitment by launching an action plan for associations, the economic component of which includes support for employment, and another component, support for the support and development of association life, up to the enhancement of the commitment and status of the volunteer. This plan was hit, like many others, by the crisis of the covid. As a first step, the Government's response was economic: it was in this respect that associations should be accompanied. In total, a financial commitment of EUR 1 billion has been deployed to support the voluntary sector. It took several forms: the tax credit for employees – up to 500 million –, the increase in the appropriations allocated to the FDVA – for 20 million, bringing the total amount of this fund to 45 million – and the allocation to the Emergency ESS fund, an emergency fund for the social and solidarity economy, placed under the responsibility of my colleague Olivia Grégoire – 30 million, for small employers' associations. In addition, there is cash support and a zero-rate solidarity loan, which the associations can apply for from the Bank of the Territories. You are asking me about how we accompany the associations during the recovery and recovery period, and you have welcomed the involvement of the associations in your territory. Because it is indeed necessary to help them, my colleague Roxana Maracinanu is launching the pass'sport for the new year, which will allow 100 million euros to be deployed for young people between the ages of 6 and 16 from the poorest families. In addition, we provide sectoral responses to culture, sport or education. What we owe to the associative world is human support, which includes the support of volunteers and their recognition, in order to give them the necessary energy and of course to meet their economic needs. I will conclude with your question on the FDVA. Today, applications exceed the amount of this fund, which leads us to question its budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u5	We must abound the line!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u6	And reactivate the parliamentary reserve!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u7	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u8	There are two types of associations: those which employ employees and which are found in EHPADs, home support structures, departmental sports clubs, as well as in the charitable or cultural sector; those without employees, which we meet in small villages: the holiday committees, the club of seniors, the club of leisure... But both the former and the latter rely on volunteers, without whom nothing would be possible. I will mention these two types of associations and their problems by moving a little out of the context of covid. In the former, how could we value volunteers and give them recognition? I think, in my department of Tarn, of the volunteers of MARPA – home for the elderly – of Valderiès, its president and his team, who, in total responsibility, worked, in front of the covid -19, without counting their time or sparing their sentence. What status could we give them, so that they continue to be motivated? Before this crisis, we were talking about creating a volunteer status in these types of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u9	To talk about it, you talked about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u10	What about today? The second associations are often those that have not been able to carry out their activities, because of the covid-19. Currently, mayors fear that, for lack of motivation, volunteers will stop coming to the front of the stage. How can we help them remotivate the volunteers, which will give our villages a semblance of normal life, giving them back all the festivities we could meet there? In short, there are two types of associations, two types of problems and two simple questions, to which I am aware, it is not easy to answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u11	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u12	You spoke of two types of associations and pointed out two problems that need to be addressed. I will concentrate on the associations that we know well, because they make the social bond live on our territories and by creating life, they bring an immaterial but absolutely necessary dimension to them. With regard to the recognition of the status of the volunteer, we finally managed, thanks to the mobilization of the national representation, a few months ago, to create and deploy the citizen engagement account – CEC – which is now active. I also invite all the volunteers to open it – to do so, they just have to indicate their social security number – in order to acquire 240 euros per year of training rights, which is in fact a first form of valorisation. They are eligible for this voluntary account, as well as community leaders – whether they are sports, cultural or social – young people engaged in civic service, reservists or volunteers of firefighters: as many men and women who are committed and who serve the national community, to which we are committed. Beyond that, the bill proposed by our President Sylvain Waserman in favour of associative engagement, which is intended to succeed, tends to recognize to voluntary leaders a special status. This recognition will remove a problem: the risk of judicialization may hinder access to certain responsibilities as president or treasurer. Finally, I work with a collective that aims to revive the different forms of volunteerism. Benevolat.fr brings together various associations such as France Volunteer or Benenova, in support of the large platform JeVeuxAider.gouv.fr, civic reserve of citizens, men and women ready to give energy to associations, which were largely helped by older volunteers who were asked to stay at home to protect themselves. You can see it: you can count on the Government's mobilization to support the volunteers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u13	Thank you twice, Madam Secretary of State. We turn to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u14	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, I know your personal commitment on all these issues and I have no reason to doubt it, but, let us agree, your majority and the Government have completely missed out on the world of associations. This was seen from the beginning of the mandate, when you removed the parliamentary reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u15	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u16	What a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u17	It was also observed when you removed the assisted jobs, without this measure being prepared. It has to be said that you arrived with only the word start-up in your mouth, so you couldn't understand the community world. The failure continued with the management of the covid. What happens to our sports, cultural or charitable life when associations are arrested?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u18	Zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u19	It stops too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u20	Associations are the economy of giving: giving time, giving oneself. This is the opposite of the market economy. And that, I think, is hard for you to understand. On the other hand, associations are commitment, i.e. the opposite of passivity and attendance. Let's take charge. Not everything is expected from the state or communities. It is also the political philosophy of those who sit on our benches...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u22	...and you know it well. Unfortunately, your failure is very real. Today, in our communes, there is no more one football game on Sundays. In my department, perhaps one of the most cyclists in France, there has not been a single bicycle race since the beginning of the year. Young people's clubs, which each year organize large rock concerts that bind together a whole generation, are at a standstill, such as the theatre troupes – there are almost every municipality – and the associative cinemas – are found in each canton. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have missed out, perhaps not on the big associations, which you have finally treated as businesses, but on the small ones, who live on volunteerism and sometimes on the ball, the lottery or the meal that we organize, which you have not been able to understand or measure. What do these associations want from you? Trust, freedom and even more simplification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u23	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u24	Mr President, I am aware of your commitment to the world of associations and of the extent to which you are accompanying it in your territory. The associations you're talking about are those that don't have employees. In our country, this is the case of nine out of ten associations, and they are the ones who support our national community and action project. You are right: they are associations of consideration, of action, that rise up and make live the bond between the generations, bringing not only sweetness but also cultural life or bond. What are they asking for? On this point, I will join you: they wish to return to normal life...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u25	Freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u26	...and the time of engagement. Only today, where all our activities are affected by the health crisis, our responsibility is not to leave any association on its knees or unable to resume its activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u27	It's going to be difficult!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u28	That's why Jean-Michel Blanquer, Roxana Maracinanu and I have mobilized so that sports activities, starting with those of the younger ones, can resume outside. It is only a step, I grant it to you, but it obliges us, because more than ever, we must trust – and this is the case – our associations, especially sports associations. I welcome the quality of the health protocols that each federation has proposed for recovery. As you know, honourable Member, the recognition of commitment and gift, we owe it to volunteers, because they shape the face of our territories. You remember: under past finance laws, we created and then increased the franchise that applies to SMEs and TPEs for donations to associations. These small companies will therefore be able to continue to support the sports associations, for example the football clubs you mentioned, because they know the need to make them live in our territories. I know that, on all the benches of our assembly, there is only one fight: it aims to recognise the role of associations and to allow them to reopen and, when the health situation permits, to resume their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u29	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u30	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the voluntary sector has been under severe strain. The various measures taken by the Government to try to stop the epidemic of covid-19 have indeed weighed heavily on the associations and their volunteers. Let us take into account: in France, nearly 30,000 associations are directly threatened with disappearance, while a third of the French were engaged in associative life. Yet we have never needed them so much in our territories. Indeed, the health crisis has brought more than one million of our compatriots under the poverty line. Associations are more necessary than ever to help them, especially in the Oise, the first department affected by the crisis. More broadly, they are essential to create a social link between citizens and enable them to share a common passion, whether cultural, sporting or otherwise. These links are a first necessity. That is why the Government must finally deploy an ambitious policy of support without predicament or misconception, which it has not done so far – several speakers have reiterated that the FDVA is not up to the challenges – while many local and regional authorities continue to strongly support associations, such as the Oise departmental council, whose work is exceptional. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, when will you finally lead a policy towards associations, especially the non-employer community, in order to make them tomorrow an actor in the revival in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u31	Restore the parliamentary reserve!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u32	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u33	You mentioned two things. First, FDVA's resources, which were mentioned by several parliamentarians, were actually increased by €20 million to reach €45 million. This is not the Government's only commitment to support associative life: all funding combined, we reach 1 billion euros to support the voluntary sector. Secondly, you wonder how we can make the link live and continue to create it. To do so, our commitment is based on two pillars. I salute the communities that continue to support the associations. We will never oppose the actions of the State, the Government and the communities. On the contrary, we must create this momentum, block for the associations, each in its role, regardless of our ability to act: companies with patronage and the Government with support for employment and recognition of commitment. How can we instil the will to engage from an early age? That is why we are deploying a strong programme that establishes an important mechanism for youth, structuring in the future: the universal national service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u34	There's no one on the benches of the majority! They're not interested!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u35	Human support is also needed by enabling more young people to engage in intergenerational relations, as provided for in the civic service for older people. I have always stated this and will continue to do so: I do not establish any hierarchy between the causes. It doesn't matter if we engage in an association of bakers, for the planet, to combat discrimination or in favour of regional languages, as in my territory. Today, all commitments must be accompanied without any hierarchy. That is why we, Jean-Michel Blanquer and I, want to foster, from an early age, the culture of commitment, whose universal service is in particular the first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u36	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u37	Minister, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u38	Dear friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u39	... dear friend, of course, I would like to thank my colleagues in the LaREM Group for allowing us to discuss the government policies that accompany our associations tonight. The subject is crucial because their activities are valuable and perhaps more so today than yesterday. Everywhere in our territory, they contribute to the social bond, the emancipation of people and the construction of critical thinking. In my region, New Aquitaine, we proudly count 30,000 cultural associations, bringing together more than 400,000 members. They have immeasurable value because of what they give to society, through freedom of expression, creation and social innovation, and their ability to support and make public policies concrete. So they are an integral part of the construction of our society, we both know that. For more than a year now, the entire cultural world has been severely affected by the impact of the crisis: audiovisual, books, music, live entertainment... This translates in concrete terms for associations into decreases in activity revenues, a significant decrease in the number of creations, a reduction in memberships and increased difficulties in volunteering. This is dramatic, especially when we know the role played by some of them in maintaining solidarity towards the poorest. Strong public action is already under way and will be needed in the coming months to reverse this devastating spiral. I am sorry to see the New Aquitaine Regional Council reduce the budget devoted to association life by EUR 550000 for the financial year 2021. The Government's place is even more central in the necessary support for the heads of associations and associations that take initiatives in the territories. The rural areas that I came from need to be irrigated by the beneficial action of these associations. For example and very concretely, in the municipality of Bazas where you came, the dance association or the association Bazas Culture Cinéma do not yet know if they have a future. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Madam Secretary of State, some regions still have to negotiate to sign a recovery plan with the State. What will be the position of the Government regarding the place of associations in this agreement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u40	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u41	You asked a question about cultural associations. The Government wished to provide cross-cutting responses to all associations by allowing them access to ordinary law. This first step was necessary. I know how attached you are to associations in your territory. When you move on the ground, you realize how much each one of them has a particular need. It was therefore necessary to supplement the common law, in particular the provisions on partial unemployment and access to State-guaranteed loans, by providing specific and sectoral responses. In cultural matters, the Minister of Culture has presented a €95 million emergency plan to irrigate artistic and theatrical associations. It is not just a question of compensating for losses due to the suspension of their activities; It is necessary to accompany the associations at the time of the revival in order to avoid their being affected by the consequences of this period. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Associative engagement is an essential part of the Government's priorities, which takes a close look at the commitment of each other. We can all lend our support. If tomorrow the cultural world could not receive the necessary support, we would continue – I am sure – Roselyne Bachelot and I, to deploy all the elements to accompany the structures, the cultural, sports associations, but also help, whether food or emergency. Indeed, today more than ever, the men and women who commit themselves, allow our country to go through this crisis, while maintaining the human link in our territory. I believe that is what fundamentally makes our country's resilience and strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u42	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u43	Madam Secretary of State, I have no doubt about your efforts in favour of associations. In fact, you have expressed it very well in the gallery. We have talked a lot about the parliamentary reserve and, without wanting to deliver an outmoded speech, I think that its removal was a magisterial error, the effects of which I myself had not measured. The reserve contributed three times as much as the current FDVA to the funding of associations – in terms of the abundance of credit, one feels the difference. As for access to grants, this was a fairly agile, transparent mechanism in the hands of the Member who could free himself from clientelism by establishing collegiality or citizen juries. That is what I have proposed to do in the context of the FDVA, but, unfortunately, the Government has not responded to our requests. That's my first regret. My second regret concerns, of course, the aided contracts, which represent a form of aid for the operation of associations which have no means. You have compensated them with several devices that are not equivalent. But this health crisis of the covid-19 is a period of lean cows for associations that do not hire employees: they no longer have any resources but have to pay the costs; They're on the flank. Madam Secretary of State, could you not be humble in recognizing that the FDVA is perhaps not the technocratic system that suits the association regime? Could we find – even if we name him otherwise – a device as agile as that of the parliamentary reserve, by cleaning him up from the risk of clientelism? My last question is about associations with no employees, who had only the resources to live by their animation. Presently subjected to very heavy burdens, they do not know how to get out of it – we see it when we attend general assemblies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u44	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u45	You first mentioned the abolition of the parliamentary reserve and the creation of the FDVA. If we appeal to our parliamentary memories, the FDVA was set up one evening in the Finance Committee on the initiative of Mr Joël Giraud, then a Member of Parliament. Our will is to continue to abound in it because today the demands exceed its budget. There is a real need to support associations, in particular to provide for their operating costs. However, fewer and fewer grants cover these costs, for the benefit of investment or project financing. However, associations that do not have employees do not have the necessary engineering to access funding. That is why I place my hopes in the vote on the bill to improve the cash flow, which will soon be debated in the Senate and which provides for the presence of parliamentarians in the departmental colleges of the FDVA, a provision voted in the National Assembly. This is a first step in creating more linkages and a territorial perspective on grant applications. With regard to the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, I do not put everyone in the same basket: some parliamentarians were very committed and were transparent, providing all the information. But the decision was taken by the national representative. Today, our responsibility is to support the FDVA, which continues to grow. Each year, 20 million euros from the proceeds of inactive bank accounts will abound, as was the case this year. This provision of the Equality and Citizenship Act had been censored by the Constitutional Council as a legislative authority, before being again voted by the national representation. It allows us to continue to abound the fund, which is intended to grow, improve and register in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u46	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u47	From the beginning of the epidemic of covid-19, our community has been at the rendezvous and I would like here to pay tribute to all those who have mobilized and enabled us to respond more effectively to this crisis. Many associations have started to make masks and visors or to organize the carrying of races and meals to vulnerable people and caregivers. We owe them a lot, and I want to express our gratitude to them. We can rejoice at the vitality of our community: the 1.5 million associations that make up our territory mobilize 13 million volunteers and employ 1.8 million employees. They speed up the daily life of many of our communes and cement our society. These are our sports clubs, our holiday committees, our cultural associations, our charitable organizations. We must, of course, pay tribute to the action of these millions of volunteers who, every day, give their time to the service of others. While the crisis revealed the great solidarity of the French, it also plunged the voluntary sector into a major crisis. At a time when part of our territory is confined, the associations adapt to maintain the link between their members, but they also face many difficulties: the creation of associations is falling by 40 per cent, membership in cultural, sports and leisure associations has decreased by 25 to 50 per cent and most of them have had to suspend their activities. I would like to stress the importance of associations in the social cohesion, training and integration of our young people. The current crisis strongly affects their commitment and we must find solutions. In 2018, out of 140,000 civic service volunteers, only 2,500 worked in rural areas. It is essential not to forget our rural areas and to propose solutions in the areas of housing, transport and mentoring of young people in order to better accompany them in volunteering. Madam Secretary of State, we know your commitment to the maintenance and development of the voluntary sector. In the face of the consequences of the crisis, how does the state intend to act so as not to tarnish the vitality of this sector? What are the first results of support schemes for employees in the voluntary sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u48	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u49	You have presented two elements to the debate. First, how can we continue to accompany the culture of engagement in a period of crisis when some of our volunteers have been overjoyed, while others have lost the bond of daily life, who, as we know, has lost their way in time? The first element of response is recognition of their commitment and support for the emergence of new energies. That is why the Government had created the civic reserve, which was born of an almost crazy idea: who is ready to commit today? In a few weeks, 350,000 people registered in the civic reserve, ready to give their time. For more than half, they were committed first, who had not had any other voluntary commitments in associative structures. Half of the 350,000 registered in the civic reserve are under the age of 30, which shows that energy is there. It is absolutely fundamental – it was one of the answers to Mr Maxime Minot – to determine how to accompany the journey of citizenship and engagement from an early age. We are, of course, taking a lot of action in this direction. With regard to the second part of your question – time is running out and I absolutely want to answer all the points – you asked us how to relaunch membership when some associations lose members. It turns out that two major actions will be undertaken next year. The first is the €100 million package for the sports pass, which aims to encourage sports activities, and the second is the massive deployment of the cultural pass. These two actions must help to increase the number of memberships and to support the vitality and restart of associations, including those which do not have employees, when the health situation will allow us to return to a normal life. I do not doubt for a second that the associations will then resume their activity. And to remedy the decline in the number of association creations, we are energetically deploying the "asso account" in order to simplify the life of associative structures, whose time should not be spent dealing with the French technical and administrative millefeuille. That is not what we are asking them to do, and we must live up to their actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u50	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u51	Each of us can bear witness to this in its territory – in the city, in the neighbourhoods, in our countryside – the fabric of society and its vitality are important and indispensable, not only for national cohesion, but also for the animation of the territories and solidarity between our fellow citizens, regardless of the field covered by the community. Its importance is a very French specificity. Very few countries have such capacity to organize an associative system. Ours comes from the great laws of the early 20th century and can also replace the public authorities to carry out certain actions. However, the crisis of covid-19 has only confirmed a phenomenon that we have known for some time: that of a volunteer crisis. As we know and see in our constituencies, the same person is often responsible for several associations. For many of them, these people are getting older without, more often than not, planning someone to take over the reins. In this respect, the level of commitment of young people is not the only issue: in reality, the question of the commitment of the active generations as a whole is raised. They sometimes benefit from the action of associations without giving back what previous generations could give. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] My question is therefore: beyond the various plans and the universal national service, what could the Government do to foster the voluntary citizen engagement, including among those aged 25 to 50 or 60?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u52	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u53	You're right, we all have energy and a commitment to make to the community world. I mentioned this earlier, but I think it is necessary to repeat it, and I believe that the first obstacle to the involvement of people is the complexity of the administrative procedures relating to associations, which leads to a transformation of the commitment. In the past, the traditional path was to be a volunteer, then become a member, join the board of directors and become vice-president or secretary general. Today, the administrative complexity faced by associative structures is such that some of their members fear that they will hold a leadership position. That is why the Government is fully committed to bringing to fruition Sylvain Waserman's bill to recognize the status of volunteer leader, which is necessary to reassure those engaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u54	MODEM speaks to MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u55	More broadly, you are asking us about ways to stimulate the energy of our nation of engaged people. You're right, one Frenchman in three is currently a volunteer in our country. This is a chance we need to preserve. That is why Olivia Grégoire and I are working to increase the number of philanthropic sponsors on the part of companies, and encourage them to recognize the commitment of their own employees. As far as the younger people are concerned, in addition to the arrangements I have already mentioned, I would like to stress the civic services, which are important times of engagement. I would add that the universal national service – which was certainly not at the heart of your question – which lasts two weeks, eighty-four hours to be exact, represents a potential nugget for a family. In fact, a young person who spends time in a federation, a food aid association or a community will then tell his parents about the importance of his action and the sense that he found in committing himself. I have the feeling, if not the certainty, that when one sees pride in the eyes of his children, one wishes to accompany him in his steps. It is indeed collectively, each at its own pace and on its own scale, that we will be able to bring about the life and revitalization of associative structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u56	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u57	I would like to express my deep appreciation to all the volunteers and community leaders in our country, who are committed to the benefit of as many as possible with a sense of self-denial and dedication that should be welcomed. As we all know, the crisis shows a need for social relations, commitment and participation. Many of our fellow citizens are alone and I think we will emerge from the much stronger crisis, precisely because we will have rediscovered the importance of human relations. I also believe that the associative fabric will be revived, at least I hope for it. We see everywhere how important commitment is, especially to break the great solitudes. When we question the community leaders, all of us tell us how complex their action is. It is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain grants. There are almost as many forms as there are organizations. For having organized two years ago a meeting with nearly 200 associations in the department of which I am elected, I can assure you that all the participants have told me of this complexity. That is why I would like to refer to the FDVA, which succeeded the parliamentary reserve. Madam Secretary of State, no one understands why these funds were withdrawn from parliamentarians when we were making good use of them and, above all, why they were not directly allocated to local authorities. It would have been much simpler than creating a new State-dependent body, which represents an additional complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u59	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u60	Are we going to simplify these aids? And would it not therefore be possible to distribute these funds directly to the communities, in order to make them more effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u61	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u62	The abolition of the parliamentary reserve and the creation of the FDVA are the result of a will of national representation, a choice of this majority and nothing else. However, my mission is to support the development of the fund and to simplify its access. In this regard, our main objective is to make it known and thus to remedy the lack of information about it. It is also appropriate to continue to increase its budget, as we see that requests exceed the available funds. This is why the FDVA was credited this year with an additional €25 million, bringing its total budget to €45 million. On the other hand, you have insisted on one point which I believe is essential: the need for global simplification. Thus, on the occasion of the deployment of the "asso account", the Government undertook to never again request an association to provide three or four times its last minutes of general meetings or a new copy of its statutes. It is up to the State to facilitate the daily life of associative structures and their access to the FDVA. If we want to keep the associations alive, this is a necessity. They should not be allowed to grow under administrative weight. On this point, honourable Member, my commitment is literally fierce. I am convinced that the future of our associative structures, especially when they do not have employees and are based on volunteers, requires administrative simplification and the most direct access to support and support. That's what my administration is working on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u63	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u64	How can we talk about the Government's policy in favour of associations when you have abolished their line ministry? This is a lack of consideration for the 1.3 million associations and the approximately 21 million French who declare themselves engaged in the voluntary sector, which accounts for between 9 and 10 % of employment in the private sector. A large majority of French people are attached to associations, creating social ties and solidarity. The health crisis that we are going through provides new proof of this. During confinements, voluntary associations were not short of ideas to help isolated and lost people. They delivered baskets of fresh produce, shopping, food parcels or medicines at home. They supported the most vulnerable, distributed meals, or provided psychological support. The associations have been and remain at the front, but for what recognition of the Government? Long before the crisis, the Government had sent a very bad signal to this sector, by cutting off aided contracts, undermining continuity of services to the person and solidarity in all its forms. However, during the great debate in 2019, Emmanuel Macron had promised a great plan to support the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u65	Another unfulfilled promise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u66	The Secretary of State, the Regional Chamber of the Social and Solidarity Economy and the University of La Réunion have proposed a more balanced, sustainable, supportive and better managed social and economic scheme. It is structured around three strategic axes: territorial development and transition, the production of values and wealth, and the creation of new solidarity dynamics of proximity. What do you think? What follow-up do you intend to give to this proposal? Furthermore, are you prepared to create an employment scheme for the voluntary sector which would be based on a five-year multi-annual agreement, like youth employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u67	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u68	You oblige me to contradict you: at no time has the ministry responsible for associative life been abolished. On the contrary, and being in charge of youth and commitment in the Government, I am, in a way, living proof of this. What better word, Mr. Member, to describe the world of associations than that of "engagement"? Indeed, if associative life is carried by employees, it is carried mainly by volunteers. Commitment consolidates associative life. In this regard, the Directorate of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, which primarily concerns me, is the Directorate of Youth, People's Education and Associative Life. It has been unchanged since I took office. I would add that the Government's ambition in the field of associations is growing, as the portfolio of my colleague Olivia Grégoire, Secretary of State for the Social Economy, has recently been created. Its role is to provide specific support to associations employing employees. How do we act in this regard? First, to respond to the crisis, we created the EUR 30 million Emergency ESS fund. It aims to support smaller associations, employing between one and ten people, and most in need of help. We also provide much more structural, long-term responses, with the very important opening of FONJEP posts – funds for cooperation of youth and popular education. These are jobs supported to the tune of 7,000 euros, which are no longer exclusively reserved for young people and which moreover respond to your request for pluriannuality since they are the subject of a financial commitment by the State for three years. With regard to aided contracts – we must not avoid any questions – they have not been abolished, but have been transformed to the benefit of the skills employment pathways – the CECs – which are much more stable jobs. Let's say, assisted contracts accounted for 8 per cent of the jobs in the voluntary sector. Associative structures should therefore be accompanied so that they can be recruited and thus consolidated. That is why we have also launched three experiments in three regions aimed at supporting associations of employers and creating employment opportunities, which can take many forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u69	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u70	Madam Secretary of State, we have taken note of the efforts announced by the Government to support the tourism sector, hard hit by the health crisis, even if urgent adjustments would be necessary for the overseas sector to take account of our realities and the size of our businesses. For the voluntary sector, which is often very linked to overseas tourism, the situation is worrying. Nearly 20,000 associations work in the West Indies, often in tourism, but also in sports and culture for half of them, or in popular education, youth and social assistance for almost a third. Half of these associations have no or few employees, often less than five, although some may have several dozen. INSEE estimates that the voluntary sector in the West Indies accounts for nearly 10 per cent of the workforce in the overseas private sector. Faced with the health crisis, half of the associations ceased their activities during confinement, and less than one in ten maintained an activity rate of more than 50%. The effects of the crisis are therefore catastrophic for the community world. Associations often have an annual budget of less than 50000 euros and only live on activities financed by their members. By losing their business, they have often lost their funding, without being able to use state aid. I would therefore like to ask you about the legal and financial support that the State could offer to the voluntary sector, of which we know it is essential in France. More specifically, I would like to raise your awareness in the overseas world, where the world of associations plays a decisive democratic and social role with people who are vulnerable by life or living below the poverty line. A specific plan is needed to support the voluntary sector, as has been done for learning, especially during this unprecedented health period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u71	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u72	To give you some figures, my colleague Olivia Grégoire's emergency plan for the social and solidarity economy has reached 1200 associations in the West Indies for a budget of EUR 2.24 million. In addition, FDVA helped them to the tune of 1.2 million. But, in reality, your question deals more broadly with associative employment structures that have experienced a loss of economic activity. These associations, of course, have access to the common law mechanisms of partial unemployment and the State-guaranteed loan, but we will not stop there. There is currently an important problem of non-use of rights. Some funds are not fully utilized. I will give an example in the tourism sector you mentioned. An emergency aid fund led by FONJEP, which is intended to assist the structures accompanying the holiday camps or air-conditioned centres, allows them to pay flat-rate aid in 72 hours. All they have to do is go to the FONJEP website and ask for it. The aid is open to all associations for an amount of EUR 15 million, and there are still funds. There are a multitude of sectoral or ordinary aid schemes. Our goal is to accompany each of these structures to give them the necessary information and to provide them with the right answer. Whenever we find a structure or situation that is not covered, the Government undertakes to find the necessary response. This is a real challenge, and Olivia Grégoire and I are working to disseminate widely, with the federal structures, information that does not reach the structures most in need. You can count on the mobilization of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u73	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u74	The next item is the debate on the elderly in the face of the health crisis. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a series of questions and answers. Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u75	The Republicans Parliamentary Group wanted to put on the agenda of this week's review the important debate on the situation of our seniors in the face of the health crisis that our country, and the entire planet, has been going through for more than a year now. I will start with a few elements of context. While our country is moving irreparably towards the 100,000 deaths from covid-19, the statistics are implacable: 75 per cent of the victims were 75 years of age and over, and 14 per cent were between 64 and 75 years of age. That is how unevenly affected we have been, depending on whether we are young or not. In addition to these figures there is a high rate of very serious cases among the oldest among us, with respiratory, neurological, skin or motor sequelae increased as age increases, and sometimes irremediable. This desolating and necessarily imperfect clinical picture must be complemented by other elements on which I would like to emphasize in this forum. Our elders have suffered more from the psychological violence of isolation, the various forms of confinement and the remoteness of their loved ones than all others. They suffer horrificly from loneliness. Worse, they are afraid: fear of the contamination which every day shows that it can be fatal to them more than to the younger people, fear of their children and grandchildren, who could make them sick even by visiting them, fear of any contact, fear of living a little normally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u77	This view is very incomplete as our elders have suffered from the panic experienced by some EHPADs who have become a home of contagion, with many deaths in decimated communities and often delivered to themselves to deal with a situation that no one could then understand. These same seniors are concerned about vaccination these days, as contradictory information is disseminated about the reliability of a particular vaccine and its adaptation to a particular age group. Although the vaccine is clearly the only way out of the crisis, our seniors are still not serene. It is over the long term, however, that we need to think about the lessons to be learned from the many consequences of the crisis for our seniors. I would like to share some thoughts here. First of all, the crisis has revealed the extent to which the management of specialized accommodation and reception structures rests on the shoulders of the teams that make them live, while their governance is often bicephalous, shared between the RSA – the regional health agency – and the departmental community, creating blind spots in the responses expected of staff and managers of these structures. We believe that it is essential for the Government to validate the experimental projects that germinate in the territories where this management is to be made more effective by entrusting it entirely to the local connoisseurs, the departmental councils. Are you ready, Madam Deputy Minister? Secondly, the crisis highlighted in a stark way the major interest of residences for small, human-sized seniors, where we know each other, appreciate each other, help each other and come together, even in times of crisis. The network of seniors' reception facilities in the territories has an important hole, that of accompaniment to the innumerable non-medicalized residences, homes and intergenerational structures that the territories have created and that render services irreplaceable. It is high time to reconsider this lack and to overcome this fragility by allowing organized territories to contract with the State to continue to support and develop these institutions. In addition, it was at home that our elders went through this crisis best, in a life setting to which each of us is legitimately attached for his or her old days. But societies are changing: family cells are now reduced, and life rhythms are not compatible with support for an elderly relative. This is why home-based services are ubiquitous and very effective. The Segur of Health, however, forgot them when we gave them our gratitude, and this imperfection has still not been completely corrected. When will we be able to conceive the accompaniment of aging as a continuum from home to EHPAD, through residences for seniors? When will we manage to design a coherent set, territory by territory, behind the natural head of the departmental councils? Finally, we urgently need to debate the central issue of caring for dependency, while at the same time reaching the end of the aborted pension reform, if we are to clarify the vision of our country's future in the coming decades. When will these questions come back to Parliament? The French want to know what you have in store for them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These proposals are ours. We submit them to the debate and wish to see them implemented as soon as possible, for the good of our elders and for the good of each of us, at some point in our lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u78	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u79	Our colleagues The Republicans propose to open an important debate on our seniors, whom we love so much and who have been so affected by the pandemic. This debate affects us, because who doesn't have a father, a mother, an uncle, an aunt? It affects us, because the mortality statistics unfortunately show that seniors are the first victims of the disease. It touches us, because we like to go to them, talk to them, meet them, which we have been deprived of for long weeks. I thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for you, in the Government, for the first time opened this difficult door, which I had to push further last week. Luckily, you've been there! For EHPAD residents, telemedicine did not exist. I remember a year ago, in 2019, there were no telemedicine consultations at all. We are now one million a day. This door should not be closed, Madam Minister: telemedicine will not solve everything, but it is an essential door. We also see what happened with the vaccines: the residents of EHPAD are the ones who were most vaccinated, and that is quite normal. Nevertheless, you know what it's like to go and vaccinate there. I've known EHPADs in my riding in which residents were tested every week – I've been sometimes operational – and they feared this Monday morning with a lot of emotion. The lessons of the crisis must therefore be learned. It has been difficult due to slip syndrome; It was also difficult because, when someone died in an EHPAD, it was always the covid -19, and it was not even wanted to know if there was another cause. This invites us to reflect on the future. These issues have enabled us to move forward together and we must naturally draw conclusions from them. The first concerns the famous forms to be completed in EHPADs. Frankly, the forms we've known this week, next door, it's gnognotte, forgive me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u80	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u81	Have you read this form? When a resident of EHPAD has two children and they disagree, how do we do it? If you have a scrupulous director, fresh out of the School of Higher Studies in Public Health in Rennes, he will say: "Oh there, if the two children do not agree, I do not want us to go see this elder. If we give him the covid -19, who will take responsibility? We all have jobs at risk: parliamentarians, mayors, community leaders, business leaders... If I say that, it is because there will be other pandemics, and what has happened over the last fifteen years must serve as a lesson in humility. When will we reach the 100% vaccine? Because they want to get vaccinated: our elders understood that the risk existed and that there was no other treatment. Indeed, I am not convinced that they will be the first to receive monoclonal antibodies, just as they were not the first to go into resuscitation; They left when the beds were available. For me, the most important thing is this: how can we rethink the future? You are fortunate, Madam Deputy Minister, to be the head of a ministry that will administer a fifth branch of social security, but this fifth branch should not be left unheard of. I hope you get the necessary arbitrations. In any case, on these benches, not a single vote will oppose the inclusion in the parliamentary calendar of the bill on the old age if the means are there. Otherwise, it will be a Bengal fire in the plain in addition. It is not enough to create the instrument, it must be given the means, and these means are the fifth branch. In any case, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will be with you because this is a very important issue to us. Finally, I will have a thought for the nursing staff, for those who were not in the Grenelle because they were forgotten, for those before whom one sometimes passes, at the home of the residence, when one goes from home to the retirement home, for those whose hourly allowance was increased by 0.04 centimes with the covid bonus, if you remember. The chain from the person staying at home to the one living in EHPAD needs to be rethought in a global way. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Madam Deputy Minister, you have a major responsibility with this portfolio. It is always said that health is at the heart of everything. We owe that to our elders. For if we are in this place, it is because others before us have paved the way, have experienced painful trials, wars, complicated moments. We owe them this expression of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u82	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u83	The health crisis that we have been experiencing for more than three hundred and sixty-five days challenges us all to restrict part of our own freedoms for the health of all and to promote solidarity. Thus, this protean, tentacular crisis of the covid -19 puts to the test the national solidarity – all its architecture, its tree - which can emerge from this critical moment reenchanted or damaged. Covid-19 severely affects the oldest of us. Indeed, those over 60 are the first victims of serious forms of the disease and die much more often than other age groups. Our collective challenge, our societal challenge, is, first of all, to protect our seniors from the risks of this disease while maintaining strong national cohesion, for over time, with confinements, curfews, pseudo-reconfinations, efforts can run out and become resignation, renunciation, resentment. An Odoxa survey in early February 2021 revealed that a majority of French people – 56% – feared the occurrence of intergenerational tension. This risk, let's say, has been clumsyly supported by the recommendations of a part of the Scientific Council, which, through its President, has at one point evoked a "self-isolation" of the vulnerable populations, the oldest in mind. Fortunately, this recommendation has not been unanimous, neither among the members of the Council nor within the executive, but it has been heard and sometimes misconceived by our elders. Since confinement, many seniors experience a sense of loneliness. While some have resumed activity, others point to a lack of services and the poor adaptation of cities to their situation. In the midst of an epidemic, seniors sometimes feel under close surveillance. If, fortunately, many of them feel happy, many also feel stigmatized and excluded from society. Elders try to fight, between fatality and, sometimes, resignation. Health restrictions and restrictions on movement have sometimes reduced intergenerational interactions. We don't see grandparents, to protect them from viruses, we don't see each other in cafes and places of life anymore, we trade much less and sometimes we understand each other less. However, our seniors, with great empathy, also feel that isolation, confinement and distancism are difficult for young people. In fact, young and older people agree on one point: it is the young people who have been most misunderstood by the Government. According to the same Odoxa survey, 82 per cent of the 18-34 age group and 80 per cent of the 65+ age group were not convinced by the executive measures. Protecting from the disease and its dramatic consequences is and must remain our national priority. This, of course, involves vaccination and, as our group has pointed out on several occasions, the strategy of immunizing those most at risk of developing a serious form of the disease and dying from it is good. But wanting to be vaccinated without being able to do so or knowing when it will be possible is anxiogenic, especially since vaccination is already expanding to other audiences. Many people don't have the Internet and despite many calls, it's not always possible to get an appointment: "Remember at the end of the month! "Recall in fifteen days! The cases of Madeleine, Sylvie, Marie-Thérèse and Antoinette are not isolated. The truth of the field is that it is difficult for our elders, still today, to get vaccinated. Of course, there is Doctolib, there is a number, but this one has changed three times since the beginning of the vaccination campaign; In addition, an additional line cut-off number has been added. Why not have entrusted to social security and ameli.fr the relay of Doctolib?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u84	That's what's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u85	If it is done, Madam Deputy Minister, it is very good. Since the beginning of this crisis, the clubs – Silver hair, Joye de vivre, Pavilly, Duclair, Barentin, Port-Jérôme-sur-Seine, in my constituency, and in all our territories – have been arrested; Seniors don't really have the joy of living anymore. The social dimension of these clubs is essential, even if some consider them non-essential, and we must now consider the conditions for the gradual resumption of activities for our seniors. Health protection must continue to be guaranteed in the long term, while at the same time providing the means to age well. Once they have been vaccinated, our elders will have to be reassured and encouraged to resume all associative activities, which must be arranged for return. Local authorities and the voluntary sector will need to be supported by your initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u86	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u87	The covid has heavily and extensively disrupted our lives: from the deprivation of liberty to the restriction of our movements to the harshly tried relatives and those who died of them. All of us have had to change the way we work, learn, and especially how we meet and communicate. All of us had to change our way of life, but the seniors paid and still pay a very heavy price. The "old" – this term so negatively known when it is synonymous with respect, accumulated wisdom, multiple experiences, full life – have suffered a lot. The policies of care for the "old" during the pandemic have abused them psychologically by insulating them, not to mention the sorting – horror and shame – according to the projected life expectancy. The elderly have suffered a very high mortality rate. "An Unimaginable Human Tragedy": Hans Kluge, Director of WHO – World Health Organization – for Europe, described the situation behind the closed doors of European retirement homes. The oldest of our fellow citizens were the first victims and the most numerous. At home or in EHPAD, they suffered more than the rest of the population. In EHPAD, the situation has been dramatic, with many and sometimes uncontrolled clusters: deaf pain, frightening numbers, deaths, many, too much. Yet, the teams have been professional! How they worked day and night to protect them! What a dedication and imagination to help residents cope with isolation! We must thank them all. However, this crisis will have to prompt us to reflect on a new model of EHPAD. It is not that their teams failed, but the limits of this mode of accommodation were quickly pointed, while the deaths were dozens, even in serious establishments. "The question of the last age is so carefully avoided. This is why we must break the conspiracy of silence," wrote Simone de Beauvoir. We will collectively have to get out of this silence and build with the first interested people the EHPAD of tomorrow, more open and better linked to the lives of all. Of course, we will always have to think of both cure – care, in the sense of therapy – and care – care, in the sense of "care". It is a matter, based on ethical values, of thinking of the relationship to every individual who needs care or accompaniment, with empathy, taking into account his social context, keeping himself close, with benevolence – a term often used nowadays, but which covers this notion of humanity in care. It is high time to rehumanize the system in order to take care of people as a whole, both in terms of health and in terms of health and medical and social support. To act not only with greater efficiency, but above all with more humanity, it is necessary to open up the human being back to the heart of the device. Stakeholders can be multiple, if they each provide the necessary skills, and they need to talk with the person's well-being as a compass. Even if this need is not forgotten, thanks to the very great humanity of the speakers, it sometimes goes to the background of care, because of the administrative burden and the length of the procedures. At home too, our elders died, discreetly but just as painfully. Again, professionals have accompanied, supported and relieved them: our thanks are due to them. Seniors who live at home have also suffered from the isolation of covid: a long isolation, albeit protective but also very deleterious. According to the report published by the association of the Little Brothers of the Poor last June, 720,000 elderly people had no contact with their families during the first confinement and 650,000 elderly people found no one to talk to. To protect them, we almost locked up people who needed a social bond, deciding in their place, while some might have said, "I prefer the risk of the disease to isolation and not to see anyone. The challenge is to maintain the citizenship and dignity of people, regardless of their situation. Isolation has led to loss of autonomy among those who have not been able to receive visits from relatives or even from some home care providers. Some of our seniors have developed care avoidance behaviours, not to disturb or out of fear. Others were weakened by isolation, which made them more vulnerable, and delivered them to the mercy of scams and other abuses. More broadly, older people have lost some of their relationships, their social connection: more child care, more voluntary activities to support associations, more sports, more hiking or cultural activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u88	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u89	This massive isolation, albeit dictated by prudence, is difficult to bear. The time of retirement, which was to ring for some like that of restored freedom and leisure, is now a time of boredom. Of course, our elders are not alone in this isolation; Of course, they are a priority for vaccines; Of course, the restrictions we have all suffered have protected them as a matter of priority. But let us beware of opposing generations: this would be in vain and, above all, it would create a gap that could not be filled immediately, once the pandemic has been controlled. This crisis reminded us, if needed, of our mortal status. When it's over, two solutions will be available to us. We can either forget and resume life almost as before, or we can enrich ourselves with new bonds and share the essentials and the superfluous. The wisdom of our elders must prompt us to consider aging – theirs and ours – with benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u90	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u91	Let me distinguish between seniors and seniors. For the past year, the health crisis has been particularly affecting our seniors. They are among the most vulnerable to the covid -19 pandemic: because of their age, they are fragile and need special protection. For the past year, they have been subjected to significant deprivations. Some EHPADs still do not allow visits, depriving their residents of contact with their families, forcing them to stay in their rooms, alone, the door closed. Psychologically, as we have said on several occasions in this House, it is very hard. Ms. Delegate Minister, you have made recommendations to the Directors of EHPADs, in order to alleviate the constraints of the daily lives of residents, starting March 13. I welcome these measures; Reunions will be possible thanks to the vaccination campaign in these establishments. Our elders still living at home, too, find the time long; health protocols prevent a large majority of municipalities from maintaining or organising events for them. It should be remembered that there are four sociability circles: family, friends, neighbours and associations. Our elders are deprived of all this. Sports sessions, activity clubs for the elderly are at a standstill, leading to a crucial lack of activities and contacts. This has a serious impact on their morale and physical health. Indeed, the associative fabric is very important to them and the reciprocal is true. On 3 March, the Government launched 10,000 civic service missions to accompany 300,000 isolated people within the next three years. I welcome this mechanism, which will help to combat isolation. In the face of the crisis, it is a valuable asset and a very good example of intergenerational solidarity. But, apart from this welcome mechanism, what does the Government propose to support seniors isolated from their homes in the long term during this pandemic period? Beyond the social aspect, some fear for their lives and that of others. This fear is sometimes so strong that it leads to giving up basic care. Of course, vaccination represents light at the end of the tunnel and allows children and grandchildren to be seen again, but let us not forget those aged 65 or 75 who still do not have access to the vaccine. As far as the elderly are concerned, I am speaking to you as president of the senior employment information mission, which I am leading with my colleagues Didier Martin and Stéphane Viry. I am concerned about the freeze on hiring, and the dismissals, caused by the crisis for the entire population but especially for senior employees. We know that they have longer periods of unemployment than the average of jobseekers; over 55 years of age are particularly vulnerable at the end of their careers. On the one hand, the public authorities are encouraging employees to work longer and longer – the pension reform, albeit referred back to the Greek calends, thus provided for the employment of employees up to 64 years of age, compared with 62 at present. On the other hand, with age, employment prospects are decreasing. We know that seniors are discriminated against. Many reports show that recruiters associate them with high wages and attribute them a reluctance to change, or a low capacity to adapt to technologies. Thus, it is no longer necessary to prove that they encounter difficulties in finding or finding a job. In the face of this crisis, the Government has put in place the "one young person, one solution" system to preserve youth employment, but seniors also need help. Why didn't you create "1 Senior, 1 Solution"? The health crisis is continuing and seniors also need to be reassured. Madam Deputy Minister, can you tell us about the ways in which the Government intends to improve the daily lives of seniors? It is desirable, if not necessary, to learn from this epidemic. We must seize this moment to turn a painful event into a lasting initiative for a new, more inclusive and inclusive society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u92	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u93	Please excuse me, but having not had time to appropriate the note that was prepared for me, I will be obliged to read it in a study and quick way...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u94	It's not your habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u95	... while I'm used to detach myself from my text: I'm a speaker, at least I think so! In the context of an unprecedented health and economic crisis, which is likely to last for months, 17.4 million seniors want to speak. Indeed, I have been working for two years with the Pensioners' Defense Collective, led by Mr. Guy Bisin, which brings together a large number of pensioners' associations and has constantly alerted the Government and the authorities at the highest level of the State on the worsening of the inhuman treatment of older persons since the beginning of the pandemic. This treatment does not date from today and so you are not entirely responsible for it. The elderly, of course, have the Government's call for the unity of the nation, for us to face the trials that we are going through and for everyone to be responsible. They have been very concerned about the health but also about the economic and social situation in our country. In return, they sometimes feel that they are a little left behind and abandoned; They think that little is done to reduce their isolation. This is exactly what Jérôme Guedj's report, delivered on 5 April 2020 at the request of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, highlighted: entitled "Combating the isolation of elderly and fragile people isolated in times of confinement", it gives a sadly new spotlight on a painful reality, that of isolation, which is often the impregnated and poor parent of our social policies. For example, Jérôme Guedj highlights the failure of social policy during the health crisis, while welcoming the only actors present on the ground to provide the necessary support to the isolated elderly, namely the local authorities, the first among which are mayors and their teams, associations and volunteers. The same report listed the ten basic needs of vulnerable persons and recommended that missions be deployed in an emergency. Of the forty-two measures proposed, the first twelve relate to the development of a national mobilization plan against isolation: opening of a national hotline for listening, support and guidance; promotion of caring and supportive actions within the reach of everyone; benevolence of proximity; Associative engagement; support from the public authorities; support and support for carers; mitigation, difficult but possible, of the consequences of containment in EHPADs and independent residences; dissemination of digital solutions to maintain the social link; use of the essential mobilization of departments as leaders of social policies; deployment of a cooperation cell; fight against isolation with local elected officials; telephone call from all fragile people in a territory through a merger of the hot files, APA – personalized autonomy allowance –, PCH – disability compensation benefit – and CNAV – National Old Age Insurance Fund; identification of isolated elderly persons who are in distress at home; provision of a telephone maintenance guide to identify frailties; proposed guidelines for a territorial action plan around the ten basic needs of an isolated and fragile person – feeding, taking care of oneself, caring, being informed, listening, talking to others, going out and maintaining physical activity; mobilising natural resources on the ground, including 32,000 young people in the civic service, 700,000 building guards and social and private donors to identify and support vulnerable and isolated people; Finally, the creation of a national website to share good practices and local initiatives and to capitalize resources. Madam Minister Delegate, our elderly, isolated and fragile fellow citizens want to know what the Government is waiting for to put these recommendations in place and break the isolation of our parents at this difficult time, to save them. Why, one year after the submission of this report commissioned by the Government, has not everything been done? In my community, elders remind me that at the time of the Spanish flu, the elderly did not live in nursing homes: they were consulted because their brothers had died in Verdun or elsewhere and their wives or cousins had died because of the Spanish flu followed by tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u96	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u97	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the memory of the thousands of elderly people carried away by the covid-19; I have a thought about their families and loved ones. Older people have been severely affected by the epidemic, the management of which is seriously inadequate. Let us remember the sad episode of sorting out admissions to hospitals at the height of the crisis: when EHPAD caregivers called the emergencies of some hospitals, they were told to keep the sick because there was no room for them. This discrimination was unbearable! This situation, which risks to be renewed in the coming weeks if the curve of admissions in resuscitation is not reversed, is one of the consequences of the dismantling of the public service undertaken by Nicolas Sarkozy and continued by François Hollande and then Emmanuel Macron. These elderly people, who in Réunion are called the gramouns, have the right to dignity and quality health. The French can no longer do so, and the elderly in particular: they are despoiled, lose their bearings and have few social ties; their morale takes a hell of a blow and many lose their joy of living. Gramouns are living very badly the breakdown of contacts, which is aggravated by the distance due to digitalism: long before the crisis, your policy of "dematerialized everything" had complicated the lives of these people without any accompanying measures or social support. The situation is worse in the EPHADs because the personnel are subject to an obligation of number and not of human surplus value: our gramouns are treated as commodities there. The report on EHPADs issued by Caroline Fiat and Monique Iborra in March 2018 had already highlighted institutional dysfunctions and abuse. He stressed the need to double the ratio of caregivers per resident, but, as usual, you did not take these recommendations into account, which we are paying the price today. In June 2018, Emmanuel Macron had promised a law on the old age for 2019: where is it? It is constantly postponed: At the beginning of 2019, Agnès Buzyn had promised a text for the following autumn; At the end of January 2020, the same Agnes Buzyn assured that the bill would be introduced in the summer of 2020; When the summer arrived, Olivier Véran announced a law for the end of the year; Finally, Emmanuel Macron promised a law a few months ago for the beginning of the year 2021; Today, you are making sure that the legislation will be reviewed after the health crisis. How can I believe you? Who are we laughing at? For you, when it comes to the human, it is urgent not to rush. Your policy towards seniors is bad – just like your whole policy. Should we remind you that retirement pensions are very little revalued? Who can live on a few hundred euros a month? However, this is the case for tens of thousands of elderly people. What about the overseas territories where the price of life is wreaking havoc? Gramouns pull the devil by the tail, as they say in our home, because their incomes are usually below the poverty line. I invite you to make a stay in these families and live like them: if you come out free of this experience, you may understand the distress of these people. When is an increase in retirement pensions and a reduction in the burden on the elderly? Do these also cost you a "crazy money"? Do they not deserve respect and priority treatment to improve their well-being and living conditions? The French population is aging: it will take more structures and staff, who do a great job, to accommodate the elderly. Deputy Minister, when will a major plan for the elderly be deployed? Nor should we forget those who cannot go to an EHPAD or a retirement home for financial reasons. This is where home helpers come in, who are heroines like caregivers. Exposed, however, they are despised and invisible: when are you going to recognize them a real status with a salary increase and better working conditions? During the February 4 movement, people said that they had been increased by 30 cents of euro in ten years. These home helpers must be used by several elderly people in a very short period of time and use their personal vehicle without compensation. Above all, we must not break this link in the solidarity chain: should we not encourage young people to turn to this future occupation by improving it? It would be high time you stopped thinking only about the economy and started thinking about the human.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u98	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u99	A few weeks ago, on our screens, a former journalist who had become an essayist, who was trying to think of another confinement, said: "I tell you that not all lives have the same price. Whether I live a little less or a little longer, it doesn't matter! I was surprised to see how much these comments, very commented, could have seduced: some saw a father and grandfather concerned about his own and younger children in general. It would be very dangerous to follow this logic. First of all, it is absurd from a health point of view because our former ones affected by the covid -19 contracted it mainly during visits intended to help them and to accompany them. Then, it responds to a disturbing Malthusian conception that commands to abandon the elders to save the young: how could one build on this sacrifice? What place would it give to transmission between generations if necessary? Following this logic is tantamount to yielding to division, while everything in this crisis shows us the opposite: it is through the quality of ties, cooperation and solidarity that we will be able to deal with – a lesson that should lead us to make major forks in public policies. This logic also reflects a deeply reductive vision of old age. We must collectively avoid this pitfall, particularly in the management of the health crisis in EHPADs. Many families of elderly people and associations alert us and alert you to the difficulties posed by the too severe restrictions in EHPADs: they ask the executive to quickly relax the health measures in institutions for the elderly. With more than 80% of EHPAD residents receiving at least one dose of vaccine – for the time being –, measurement relaxation protocols are still left to EHPAD management. We need to accelerate; associations and families want a greater possibility of visiting individual rooms or apartments, eating meals with outside people, but also the return of animations. According to associations and families – and each of us can see it – the situation of residents with cognitive illnesses has deteriorated sharply with covid-19: some no longer recognize their entourage. Seniors want to be able to choose how to live the last moments of their lives, together with their loved ones. EHPAD residents must be allowed to choose the life they want. The health crisis has highlighted many things, in particular the limitations of the organization of the health system for the care of vulnerable people. The organised shortage of resources in the care sector places the search for profitability before the living conditions of residents and the working conditions of staff. The current model of EHPADs needs to be rethought and the professions, mostly by women, need to be revalued in order to be more attractive, but also simply as evidence of our recognition. In addition, many pensioner's unions are campaigning for a better management of the loss of autonomy, which requires a reduction in the remaining burden on families through the introduction of mutualised funding and public solidarity. Beyond the EHPADs, loneliness, isolation and the end of places of sociability due to the pandemic weigh heavily on seniors. I am thinking, in particular, of the chibanis, who have been riddled by the isolation resulting from the closure of sociability sites. The closure of the borders between the countries of North Africa and the Schengen countries, including France, has placed a heavy burden on their mental health. Even in the midst of a global health crisis, they must stay six months and one day in France to be able to receive the ASPA – the solidarity allowance for the elderly –, the minimum old age. Many chibanis depend on this solidarity grant: the French administration must review its aid scheme by reforming the conditions of residence. I hope that we can move quickly on this. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Finally, I wanted to share the alert – that's how I put it – of Laure Adler in her novel La Voyageuse de nuit, where she writes: "To be considered only as a useless body, a failing mind, a mouth to be nourished, is a serious symptom of a society sick of the cult that she grants to efficiency, to appear, to the intensity of the present, to the strength of youth. This alert must be widely heard and taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u100	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u101	Talking about the elderly in the face of the health crisis means considering this concept through the prism of the various realities that define it. Hardly affected by the pandemic, representing the majority of deaths due to covid-19, our seniors, like the entire population, are going through the crisis from different angles. Whether they live at home, in the city or in rural areas, in a situation of dependency or not, or in institutions, feelings can only be distinct. For all, however, forced by restrictive measures, the breakdown of the social link is a harsh reality. At the end of the first confinement, we heard several public officials suggesting that the restrictive travel rules for seniors alone should be extended. According to them, it was the only way to regain a normal life and revive activity. Fortunately, in its strategy for the protection of the population, the Government has never dealt with these elements. The questioning of the republican model, of the promise of equality and fraternity, especially intergenerational, runs counter to our vision of society. On the contrary, the measures adopted in the context of the fight against the pandemic have always ensured priority needs for the protection of life, while preserving the rule of law. These discourses targeting vulnerable people are all the more harmful as they further increase the discrimination that affects them. Social cohesion and public policies cannot feed on these a priori. Thus, many older people feel excluded from the public sphere, drawn between the awareness of the epidemiological danger, strict respect for the rules of distancing and the urgent need for the resumption of activity – realities sometimes experienced as violent towards them. Unfortunately, the health crisis reveals others. Many forms of violence are practised within the family. In order to combat them, we are developing ways to strengthen existing mechanisms. These additional resources for repression and prevention are gaining public support, but there is still much to be done. More rarely mentioned than those against women and children, however, violence against older adults is very real. Whether financial, physical or psychological, these sufferings also affect the most fragile populations. To date, many of the associations representing them are seeking recognition of this scourge and are acting on a daily basis so that society can change the perception that we have of the elderly. I am thinking, for example, of how we could strengthen the role of seniors in civic engagement. Their commitment to dedicated bodies, in particular, could foster their sense of citizenship and thus involve them more in decisions that affect them. Within EHPADs – I am thinking in particular of those in my constituency – we often see an improvement in management when residents feel they are being listened to. The concept of consent should be extended to broader areas, including placements in EHPAD or placements under guardianship or guardianship. The health crisis highlighted the fragility of the social fabric and the difficulties inherent in social isolation. It is essential to hear the aspirations of seniors in all their diversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know the Government attentive; With the support of elected representatives and local actors, taking these parameters into account has made it possible to reduce health constraints, particularly in EHPAD. We were able to measure the positive impact of returning families, resuming visits or organizing friendly moments. More recently, the vaccination strategy aimed primarily at those over the age of 75 and those living in institutions has enabled them to find their loved ones as quickly as possible while being protected. Minister, what are you thinking at the end of the pandemic to encourage any action to protect the most fragile, but also to promote the participation of seniors in civic life?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u102	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u103	Huguette, 72 years old, for four years in an EHPAD, died in full confinement, away from his family and sister nurse, who could not hold his hand in his final moments. Cécile, 82, died from the covid-19; his only daughter could no longer visit him for several weeks and could not attend his cremation. Michel, 76, contracted covid-19 and was placed in resuscitation; He died five weeks later, without seeing his family again after entering the hospital, where visits were prohibited. Jean, 80 years old and still in good health, died without having been able to return to his family for several months. Yves, 66 years old, still active, was taken away by the coronavirus after twenty days of struggle in the hospital, without seeing his wife or children, to whom he no longer had the strength to telephone. All were "lords" of my department – let's call them that. Today they died of the covid-19. If the health crisis is still raging, and if our lives remain rhythmic by the daily announcements of the number of contaminations, hospitalizations and deaths, this count must not make us forget that behind these figures there were lives – and often, for the "lords", lives that ended in great loneliness. This isolation does not only affect the "lords". We are equally seriously concerned about the health of young people, but this situation is all the more difficult in the twilight of life. The epidemic thus affects the most vulnerable; It kills and hurts as long as it causes isolation. Our young "lords", sometimes still active, have suffered the crisis. Some have lost their jobs; Others, at the dawn of retirement, have difficulty living this transition period with professional life – anxiety, low morale, pessimism. The older "lords" living at home have been severely confined, with only the possible presence of a nurse or home helper as a social integration only – no other visits. For those residing in institutions, visits were prohibited, and we measured the importance of all staff accompanying them. I want to thank them and greet them. The "lords" were thus removed from their families, from their children, from their grandchildren, from their lives, when it was not simply taken away from them. For families too, this distance is unbearable. How can we accept that a loved one lives without affection and suffering? How can we accept that he dies alone, without having his own people by his side? To these, Madam Minister, it is not only life that has been taken, it is the right to die in dignity. I also share with my colleague Julien Aubert and other Members of the Republicans Group the objective of sanctifying family access in public and private medical institutions and in EHPADs – a right both for the patient and for his family. Could we, Madam Minister, incorporate this guarantee into a containment protocol in the event of an epidemic? It is not to mention how this sense of isolation, which derives directly from the impossibility of receiving relatives, affects the morale of the "lords", which is essential to their healing. We can't heal the body without healing the mind. This psychological distress must be taken better into account. How do you intend, Madam Minister, to treat our seniors in better conditions? How can we deal with the possible sequelae of covid-19 survivors, who may suffer from certain persistent manifestations of the disease? Here we can evoke the long covid and its management at all ages. Isolation is also an obstacle to vaccination, when the majority of appointments take place on the Internet, a tool that is difficult to control by the elderly, or after dozens of calls that remain unanswered – waiting for an appointment can take days. What should be done, Madam Minister, to ensure that vaccine doses are administered to all "lords", regardless of their situation? Since the resumption of vaccination with the AstraZeneca vaccine, France has administered the vaccine to people over 55 years of age, whereas it has not previously been administered after 65 years and Spain only administers the vaccine to those under 55. This blurry on the public eligible for this vaccine is anxiogenic to the "lords", directly concerned. Can you take stock of this and restore confidence? Finally, on a more positive note, I want to thank you for not giving in to the media sirens, who spoke of the possibility of reconfining the "lords." In these difficult times, it is more essential than ever to show solidarity and empathy, especially towards those of us who are the most vulnerable. Of course, I am talking about the elders, those who have worked a whole life for our country: our fathers, our mothers, our grandparents, who deserve not only our consideration and our respect, but also our help. I hope that the isolation they experienced in 2020 will never happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u104	All right, Mr. Perrut!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, in the face of the growing need for support for autonomy, it is urgent to think about the future of the old age: what answers, what reform, what financial and human resources? This morning, the CNSA – National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government – called for an increase in the CSG – a widespread social contribution. What do you think, Minister? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u106	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u107	I welcome the inclusion in the agenda of the National Assembly's Monitoring Week of this deeply humane debate that affects the most vulnerable of us. I thank you for the quality of your interventions – measured, as this debate calls for. It is in this spirit that I present myself before you to report on the Government's efforts to address the challenges faced by older people in the face of the health crisis. I welcome the inclusion of this debate on the agenda, especially since the health crisis has deeply damaged the maps of public action for elderly people who are losing their autonomy. Announced in 2007, the ambitions of the reforms of the old age were successively abandoned or reduced to their simplest expression. I would like to announce to you – unequivocally possible – that the reform relating to old age and autonomy is now on track, irreparably under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u108	[[Smile]] Where's the station?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u109	The health crisis, far from stopping it, accelerated it. The Government's commitment to the service of the elderly since the beginning of this crisis has been unprecedented, both in its philosophy and in its committed funding, and I stand before you to testify to this. Our philosophy is first of all to consider older people as citizens, as subjects of law, and not as objects of care. This conception fulfils an elementary promise of our social contract and applies to all, from the first to the last breath. I say it and repeat it hard – we must fight a simplistic, reductive and discriminating thought towards the elderly. To treat our elders differently is to put a prank in the social contract. Protecting without isolation means taking into account the fragility of each one, while keeping in mind that beyond differences, we form one and the same community of destiny. In this regard, I welcome Stéphanie Atger's intervention, which stressed the indispensable nature of what our elders bring to society, and that we should never confuse older people with those who lose their autonomy. This search for balance guided me during the management of the health crisis, both in EHPADs and for the elderly living at home. Yes, in the first wave, when we did not know the virus, strict isolation measures were imposed. We have been committed to protecting the most vulnerable, first and foremost the elderly, at the risk of sometimes being isolated, with the consequences that are now known. From the moment I was appointed, I was particularly involved in defending the application of a strong principle in EHPAD: to protect without isolation. The aim is to maintain at all costs the relationship of residents with their families, the social bond, while protecting them. This is obviously a peak line, and following it has created daily dilemmas and questions – which I know – in the directions of establishment. On this point, I want to be clear: in this debate, and in this context, it will never, I say, be a question of stigmatizing, let alone judging, teams, professionals, directors who have demonstrated unwavering commitment and have applied measures at best. Older people living at home were also particularly affected by isolation during the health crisis. To remedy this, the State has set up a hotline to accompany them. He received up to 25,000 calls a day. Thanks to the civic reserve, this month alone in March totaled nearly 47,000 youth interventions with isolated elderly people. Recently, I launched a committee to combat isolation, a problem that unfortunately exceeds the only health crisis. Thus, my action is guided by the same philosophy that led to the government's choice to give priority to the residents of EHPAD, and then our seniors who live at home. This choice was the only one possible, since they are most likely to develop a serious form of disease and, too often, to die from it. The facts speak for themselves: people over the age of 80 are 200 times more likely to die of covid than their 20-year-old cadets. The results are here: we have almost completed the vaccination of the 600,000 residents of EHPAD. Of course, they represent 1% of the French population, but 30% of deaths due to covid occurred among them. Few people could have predicted this success in December, when, on the contrary, some announced the failure of a campaign that had not yet begun – I will not have the cruelty to recall their criticisms of the time. With this result in mind, I believe that we can look forward to the success of the vaccination campaign. It is a real logistical success, and I congratulate all the local actors and the teams of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health that have contributed to it: to send to the 7,500 establishments fragile vaccines for 600,000 residents and 400,000 professionals is a tour de force. At the time I'm talking to you, almost 90% of EHPAD residents received a first dose of vaccine; Nearly half of people over 75 years of age received a first injection. Our action is therefore far beyond the walls of the EHPAD alone, and this result places us at the top of the European Union countries – we can be proud of it. Protecting without isolation means, of course, protecting, but also and above all fighting isolation, especially in institutions, and allowing families to reunite. On Friday, March 12, we issued a series of recommendations to the directors of EHPAD and long-term care units – USLD – to ease the protection measures for their residents. The protocol was developed with all the stakeholders: doctors, scientists, directors, residents and families of residents, lawyers, geriatricians and ethicists, so that together we could build the path of reunion. These recommendations ensure the same rights and freedoms for residents, regardless of their immunization and immune status. They aim to ensure a gradual return to social, intimate and personal life within and outside institutions. As Mrs Firmin Le Bodo pointed out, this is an imperative. This philosophy invites us to build public action based on the desires and aspirations of the elderly. Our model of social security had to protect all the French, from the first cry to the last breath. The creation of the fifth branch of social security, which this assembly voted for, aims to put a little more fraternity and equality in an area that has been too long unequal and unjust. This new branch, which has been called for for years but never yet created, is a fundamental paradigm shift: it places people who are losing their autonomy at the centre of a dedicated support and support system. Yesterday, the accompanying model required a type of solution for older people, especially those who could not afford to do otherwise. Tomorrow, with the reform that I defend, they will have the right to choose. The choice of staying at home as long as possible requires the development of a plan to attract and upgrade home care occupations. In this time of crisis, the Government is mobilizing unprecedented envelopes to meet the legitimate expectations that our predecessors' inaction has strengthened. The covid premium for home help services was paid because the State undertook a partnership approach by mobilising €80 million to support the departments. With this tense hand of the Government, I wanted to open a confident dialogue with the departments, which have a historic responsibility in deploying the means to age well at home. During the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – for 2021, you unanimously voted on an amendment which provides for the payment of an allocation of EUR 200 million per year to the CNSA in order to raise the salaries of home help professionals in the context of the negotiation of the amendment 43 to the collective agreement of the branch. Professionals in the sector are legitimately awaiting the conclusion of negotiations with the social partners and the departments. They must find a favourable outcome in the coming weeks, after the approval of amendment 44 on the value of the point, which provides for an overall improvement of 15% for home helpers. It had never been done! This upgrading is essential; It will help to make these professions more attractive. This is a sine qua non for making the home turn that our fellow citizens are waiting for. Finally, the Ségur de la santé et du medico-social increases the wages of an entire neglected sector for too long. The work continues, notably under the aegis of Michel Laforcade, whom the Prime Minister has commissioned to follow up on the specific re-visit clause provided for by the Ségur de la santé. Between the "large age" premium, the measures to upgrade the Segur and their recent extensions, the State will pay more than €8.4 billion each year, including €1.8 billion for EHPAD staff. Neither had it ever been done. Choosing is also a way for people in need to be better accompanied in institutions. Tomorrow, everyone must be able to find the accommodation solution adapted to their situation as well as their aspirations. With the recovery plan, we are putting on the table €2.1 billion over five years, in order to renovate and transform medical and social institutions in depth. After years of shortage and even abandonment of the public park by the state, this envelope will allow us to do better with more. We must indeed build the EHPAD of tomorrow. Many have talked about it, we do. We need to learn from the crisis. The establishment of the future must be well-contracted, more secure for people; It must be more open to the outside world, to society, or, conversely, to invite the outside world within it by forming a third place. By 2025, 65,000 places in EHPAD will be renovated, for a budget of €1.2 billion. This week, the ARS – will receive 450 million euros to finance dedicated calls for projects. The real estate renovation program will support the new model, structured in warmer, smaller units of life, adapted to the cognitive disorders and aspirations of our seniors. A small-value-added equipment investment programme for residents and staff is being launched in EHPADs. The EUR 300 million budget will finance, among other things, the deployment of transfer rails, electric chairs and fall detection sensors – all essential elements expected in these establishments. Finally, an effort of EUR 600 million over five years is planned for the digital upgrading of institutions for old age and disability. The aim is to develop tools to facilitate the daily lives of professionals, such as telemedicine, to improve their coordination and thus the care of people. That is our reform. That is what we did for the elderly during the health crisis. We are concretely fulfilling the promise of autonomy, putting the person back at the centre of public action. As you can see, we have accomplished much more in this area in the eight months since my appointment than in the last ten years. I do not want to speak only to citizens who are losing their autonomy. Our debate concerns seniors during the health crisis; I want to tell them that the Government has continued to act for them this year. I am thinking in particular of the "100% health" reform in the areas of auditory, optical and dental care. Seniors will be the first beneficiaries. To give a very precise example, the remaining average charge on hearing aids, for the equipment of both ears, will have increased from 1700 euros in 2018 to 800 in 2020 and 0 in 2021. While the health crisis has had a negative impact on the implementation of the reform in 2020, it nevertheless has concrete results. In dentistry, to cite another example, the "100% health" offer is widely supported, since half of the prostheses placed between January and September 2020 were in this context. Everyone knows that the price of such prostheses has so far been an important reason for giving up care, especially for seniors, who need it more; This was the source of too many health problems. We have partly solved this difficulty. In total, this reform represents an investment of more than EUR 1 billion for the benefit of all, but especially the elderly. Furthermore, throughout the quinquennium, the Government has pursued policies aimed at supporting those most vulnerable to insecurity, particularly through the massive upgrading of certain social benefits, to the benefit of the elderly in particular. I am thinking here of the disabled adult allowance and the solidarity allowance for the elderly which older people in precarious or disabled situations can receive. They are upgraded to over 900 euros per month, representing a state investment of 2.5 billion euros per year. The 400,000 beneficiaries of the solidarity allowance for the elderly will earn almost EUR 100 per month. This represents an increase of more than EUR 1200 per year for all senior beneficiaries. Facilitating the lives of our elders and doing more for those who have less was a promise from Emmanuel Macron. I'm also thinking about the active seniors, who are afraid they won't be able to stay. I want to tell them that the Government is committed to protecting jobs threatened by the crisis and allowing employees to train, with a dedicated envelope of almost €8 billion. In addition, powerful tools were used from the beginning of the health crisis. At the height of the crisis, partial activity affected 9 million employees. The long-term partial activity system, which takes over from the partial activity, aims to form a real anti-licensing shield. This tool allows companies to cope with a lasting reduction in activity by reducing the time worked by their employees and by training them on unworked hours. Finally, our seniors were among the first beneficiaries of these massive measures of support for purchasing power, with the progressive exemption, for four in five French, from the housing tax, which represents 800 euros per year on average, the reduction of the income tax by 5 billion euros and the simplification of the taxation of capital, with the creation of a single rate of 30%. In conclusion, I would like to see a broader reflection here. Indeed, the year we have just spent must force us to take a different look at old age and our elders. If we want to move the lines deeply, we must be able to change our eyes on the elderly and the representations that surround them. This requires an interest in ageing and isolation in society as a whole. I said it and I say it again: old age is not the problem of old people, but that of grandchildren, who have to learn from their grandparents, that of urban planners and architects, who have to think of spaces adapted to the loss of autonomy, that of companies, who have to learn to value the experience of older people within their structures. In short, it's the problem of all of us. We need to recreate the link between the generations. At a time when I hear speeches everywhere that accuse our elders of being responsible for the misfortune of young people, pointing at them instead of reaching out is a threat to social cohesion, and I will not solve it. Recreating the link is not an incantation: it means having young and old people meet in projects that make sense for everyone. To do this, we need to live with the tremendous momentum of solidarity between generations that we have seen born or strengthened in the face of the crisis – I am thinking of those young people who sent postcards to the residents of EHPAD, to those who were going to see if the elderly in their building and neighbourhood were missing anything, or to the elderly who were giving a little of their time and knowledge to contribute to the expectations of our young people. So many other initiatives, small or large, illustrate, each more than the other, the fact that generations are strengthening, enriching each other and creating new solidarity. At a time when some would like to create a conflict of generations in our country, these examples are all hope for our future. Far from polemics, these young people, these elderly people, these citizens act to make the brotherhood of our Republic live on a daily basis. The eight months I spent in this ministry are also a warning to me of the societal upheaval of the demographic transition. This dynamic rebuffs the maps of our society, which has never experienced a similar situation since the world wars. At the same time, the difficulties faced by our youngest children are calling on us. To prevent a generational divide from the suffering of everyone, we must emerge from this health crisis by offering our country all the development opportunities created by a society of longevity. This is the best way to overcome the conflicts that some would like to create, while opening the field of possibilities, and I thank Elsa Faucillon for having approached the debate from this point of view. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The autonomy bill, which I wish it to answer all these questions, is, as I was telling you, a reaffirmed priority of this quinquennium. I am confident of our collective capacity to bring about this great social reform announced by the President of the Republic and now committed irreversibly, as I have just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, it is together that we will combine solidarity and demographic transition. It is in this perspective that I welcome this debate and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u110	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u111	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the rules of the debate provide for two minutes for questions and two minutes for answers. We begin with the questions of the Republican Group. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u112	Much has already been said about the situation experienced by EHPAD residents of our country, particularly during the first wave of covid-19. The severe restrictions, and then the total ban on visits by their relatives, had tragic consequences for them. In addition to the hardship suffered, for example, by family members who were unable to travel to EHPAD, where a sick person was living and who eventually lost his life a few hours or days later, it should also be recalled that the feeling of isolation, the deprivation of affection and communication, and the lack of comfort and tenderness on the part of relatives have affected and always severely affect the morale of our affected elders. Depressive experiences, psychological distress and the so-called "slip syndrome" have been observed, attested by many caregivers. Since this first wave and the advancement of the vaccination campaign in EHPAD, several health protocols have been put in place and have been followed. The one in force since 13 March advocates a reduction of restrictions, in theory at least – because it is not yet fully implemented throughout our territory. We are several members of the group The Republicans to have co-signed a bill by our colleague Julien Aubert aimed at creating a right of access for families and relatives in health facilities and EHPADs, which would be included in the code of public health – Bernard Perrut has already alluded to it. Could you tell us what you think? On the other hand, this sense of isolation and exclusion has also benefited many of our seniors living alone at home, who have been affected by psychological distress and do not always know how to express it or who to turn to to express it and ask for help. I was able to verify this again this afternoon by noting that the government portal for the elderly does not refer to any specific address or telephone number of associations, organizations or networks that could actually provide this psychological assistance. You told us about a committee to fight isolation: can you tell us a little more and also tell us how you can address this need for psychological relief?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u113	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u114	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u115	The feedback we have made in the EHPADs and elsewhere has all referred to this isolation, which was certainly necessary from a health point of view at the beginning of the crisis, in the unknown that we were facing, but which has also given rise to dramatic situations. We have therefore drawn up this protocol and, as you have seen, we have not done it alone, but with partners who are very concerned field actors and scientists, and who have helped us to establish this protocol and to find that line of ridge that we were looking for this summer with the will that I recalled to protect without isolating. Today, we want to find this path of reunion, despite a health crisis still very tense and in departments where it is not always easy to do so. We have already made sure that visits to the rooms can resume, because that was imperative. Too many things were happening behind plexiglas, a tool we want to banish because if it is protective, it is also far too insulating. We also want to allow gestures, essential for some people with disorders that need to touch it. As for the right of access that you refer to, it is enshrined in the protocol and is not sacralized by the law, but why not? We'll think about it. The proposal may be interesting, especially when we have to go through other crises, knowing, however, that we will always have to comply with health protocols. However, asserting a right is important because a person does not lose his or her rights on the pretext that he or she loses his or her autonomy. However, this very important notion of human rights has often been lost. We must be able to work on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u116	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u117	Madam Minister, I would like to share your optimism, but I have found that the speech you have just made refers, if I may say so, to the country of the Bisounours, even though I know you and all the commitment you have shown in your ministry. I am lucky to still have my parents – my father is 73 years old and my mother 72 – and a 91-year-old grandmother, also lucky to have known my great-grandparents, I would like to talk to you with my heart and tell you about the very difficult situations we have experienced in recent days, in recent weeks and in recent months in the family, whether it is for my grandmother, who is in a nursing home, or for my parents, who see me and my children less often. I will not go back to the words used by those who spoke this evening about the lack of contacts and relationships in families. My grandmother, who called me Pierre before the crisis of the covid, now calls me "Monsieur". I would therefore like to tell you, with great emotion, that during this period of the covid we were unable to go to see our elders in the EHPADs and in the nursing homes and that this has done a lot of damage to people who used to do their part of Scrabble, watch TV shows and meet around a café. All this was stopped and the damage was very important. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] The protocol introduced after the vaccination period did not seem to me to be up to the level. Families thought that after the vaccination, things would become normal again and, if it is obvious that a transition period was necessary and things were not simple, we could have been better in terms of communication – and this "we" refers to all the actors, because there is no question of polemicing on these issues. However, I wanted to share with you, Madam Minister, things that we live in families on a daily basis. This experience refers to the question of dependency, which you have mentioned and which I will not return to. We really need to put the package on the second vaccination. I express myself with my guts and with my heart – you know me. I don't really have any questions to ask you, minister, but I wanted to give you this personal testimony about what millions of French people are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u118	Open heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u119	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u120	Thank you, Mr Cordier, for this testimony. There is not a place where I went where he didn't find someone to testify about the situation of his parents, family or relatives. Indeed, these issues are a matter of human concern. We can always have differences, but on these issues, we always find, if not a way to get back together, at least a way of understanding. You know that I've been working in social for a long time, so I lost the Bisounour side. On the other hand, I still have the pugnacious side...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u122	...because, on these issues, it is necessary at every moment – I would even say that we must campaign. In fact, even if it is not just about politics – and you see that we manage to speak to each other normally, without invectiveness – these issues are almost a matter of activism. This was indeed the case when, in the midst of a health crisis, it was necessary to move forward on an issue as difficult as the right of access and the authorization to have contacts again, despite the crisis and even the danger that it may sometimes bring to the people concerned, with the necessary precautions. There is a long way to go, and we continue. We made it clear, with the actors, that the reduced protocol would have to be revised at the end of March in view of the evolution of the vaccination rate. Between 12 and 23 March, the rate rose from 79 per cent to 90 per cent and for the second vaccination, the proportion was over 70 per cent. These results will obviously change the situation over time, including for families surrounding vaccinated individuals, who will also be protected. That is why we cannot go too fast, but we have already seen beautiful and tender scenes, which allow us to hope rather quickly for a return to a much more normal situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u123	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u124	Minister, in keeping with previous interventions, my question will focus on the situation of isolated seniors. I will not give personal testimony like that of Mr Cordier, because I am not lucky enough to have loved ones in EHPAD, but I will quote this song by Jacques Brel that you certainly know: "The old people don't move anymore, their gestures have too many wrinkles, their world is too small". It is clear that the health crisis, protective measures, confinements and curfews have further isolated them. If young people are hard hit by the crisis, socially and morally, the same goes for our seniors, who are 600,000 in EHPAD. For many, it has been more than a year since they saw their families and loved ones, and the lack of social relations is still shrinking their world too small. As you know, we have a vital need to communicate, see, touch our loved ones. We are social animals, and these needs are essential. At the height of the crisis, many older people slipped. They have not seen anyone, have remained isolated, alone at home or in their room, and this has had harmful effects on their physical and mental health. I would like to commend you and the Government for their efforts, which have led to the establishment of more appropriate protocols and thus to the removal of the isolation of older persons. Since March 13, they have been able to go outside and receive their loved ones, thanks to the protocol to protect seniors without insulating them at the end of last year and vaccination. How could we better accompany the institutions and their staff, who have been doing a great job since the beginning of the crisis, but also the residents and their families? Are the planned flexibilities still relevant in the 16 departments where new health rules have applied since last week?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u125	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u126	I thank you for this question, which joins the previous ones. We share your findings regarding both the dramatic consequences of isolation and the need for relaxation measures in EHPADs. I said it and I say it again: I do not throw the stone at the management of these establishments, who have done their best to protect their residents. Let us not forget that during the first confinement, some caregivers went so far as to lock themselves up with them to better protect them: we must continue to pay tribute to them, as you did. We worked with Fabrice Gzil, an ethicist and philosopher, on the development of an ethical charter, a real practical tool to help decision-making for school directors, staff or anyone who would need, in a tense context, a framework to decide the right word, the right gesture. In departments where containment is once again in place, and even though we have reduced some protocols, we obviously ask that the barrier actions continue to be applied, because some people are not yet protected. We also ask that tests continue to be carried out and that those who now have a right of exit be cautious when returning to their establishment. As you have seen, we are making a lot of progress in the vaccination campaign, which should protect us against the virus, even though we still have efforts to convince EHPAD caregivers to get vaccinated. Half have already accepted: without being pessimistic, I find this unsatisfactory. In some facilities, only 20% of caregivers are vaccinated; It can be much more in others. To achieve the necessary coverage, we must really succeed in raising awareness among caregivers about vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u127	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u128	First of all, I would like to thank you for this debate. For my part, I was moved by the words of our colleagues Elsa Faucillon, Gérard Leseul and Bernard Perrut: the testimonies they gave in their speeches were all shocking, each in their own way. So it is in a very friendly and kind tone that I will admonish you, Madam Minister. Our group, like others, has asked questions about the border between care and law that remain unanswered to date. However, they could shed light on our democracy. We know that, and this has been said many times, our oldest and most fragile seniors have been at the frontier of life and death. They have faced situations that have stifled our society and have sometimes put us in doubt as to the relevance of the solutions found. For my part, I have never shot at the ambulance or condemned anyone for actions that have been improvised with the best of the heart and goodwill of each other. But if they are not enlightened and read again, crises like the one we are experiencing always carry the risk of letting humanity collapse and losing the very essence of what keeps it standing. I naturally want to talk about loneliness, which can be a real poison for the good of the person and his health protection, but we can also talk about another poison: palliative care has not been adapted to this emergency medicine. Some left in just a few hours and two questions remained in the shadows, which were not fully answered: the treatment of the bodies and the possible prioritisation of patients. For these reasons, I had allowed myself last May to put a written question on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group which, one spring later, is still awaiting its answer. In June, surprise: Xavier Breton, our colleague The Republicans, tabled a bill to ensure that the National Ethics Advisory Committee – NCCE – would automatically be seized at every health crisis to enlighten Parliament – so I also address the Speaker: this concerns the Republic, and therefore the National Assembly – and the Government. The management of a health crisis should not depend solely on the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The bill was passed at first reading by our assembly this summer. In the fall, on the eve of a new containment and epidemic wave, I again questioned the Government. We are now in spring; We still do not have an answer, the National Ethics Advisory Committee has not been brought before us, and we are still not informed about such important ethical issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u129	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u130	I would like to reassure you, Mr.Potier: at each stage of the co-construction of the protocols, we have seized the CCNE and obtained its support. As I pointed out earlier, the ethical question raised by the protocols goes far beyond the health field, since they organise access rights, affect the right of people to have their civil rights... Even in institutions that are experiencing the health crisis, we must always seek the right balance. Beyond mere health issues, this requires addressing ethical issues. I would like to recall that we have always relied on both the High Council for Public Health and the CCNE, which we have recently taken up with regard to the reduction of the protocol in EHPADs. We will, of course, continue to work in this way and have also called for the development of an ethical charter. I agree with you: during any health crisis, we must always and above all maintain a balance between crisis management and respect for human rights everywhere – including, as you said, palliative care and end of life. I fully agree with you: in this matter, one must always think about the person and listen first and foremost to his or her choice. Be assured that we have systematically seized the CCNE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u131	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u132	The crisis of the covid-19 is of course a health tragedy, but also a human tragedy for the elderly, the elderly. A tragedy that could, however, quickly become the tree that hides the forest, because behind the crisis of the covid, it is another crisis that is looming: in view of demographic changes and the age pyramid, the number of dependent elderly people unfortunately risks increasing significantly in the coming years. According to projections, they are expected to be close to 2 million by 2030, i.e. by the end of the decade, and perhaps even more in the next decade. However, we have only 110,000 seats in EHPAD. It will therefore be necessary to create an ecosystem to take care of the elderly and enable them to age in a dignified way at home, taking care of their dependency at home. You recalled the creation last June of the fifth branch of social security. This was an excellent initiative, which had been shared by the Group of the European People's Party. It remains to give it content, so that we can actually have a system for caring for the dependency of seniors at home. You announced in your statement at the rostrum that the reform of self-government advocated by the Government was finally on track. It's a good thing, but the road can be long. My question is therefore very simple: where is the station located today, and when will we be able to get on the train – in other words, when will the Government table the text? We are particularly eager to hear your answer, because we are awaiting this text, which is one of the major quinquennium social bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u133	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u134	Once we're on the track, MP, it's about not derailing and knowing where we're going. We chose the home turn, because it is the choice of the elderly. Like you, I defend this reform, which we must lead together. We have already begun to work on this residential turning point that we must take into account the longevity of society – this longevity is not a misfortune, but rather a chance for our country. In order for the residential shift to make sense, we need to work on the trades to take care of each other, whether in terms of training, quality of work, attractiveness or territorial networking. There is a need to ensure equal access throughout the country. We also work on the home – the building – and on how to live with older people. Training, both initial and continuing, will have to be adapted in the various trades and a new approach will have to create appetite for these trainings and trades. You see, the turn is being approached. We are also working to make EHPAD more open places. It is not a chimera, and thanks to the funds provided by the Ségur de la santé, projects are already under way, which respect the philosophy that we have set ourselves. To create a real journey, an opening of the home to EHPAD and EHPAD to the home, a smooth transition is needed, which makes it possible to make society. So we're on track, as we started working on these different tracks. Other vehicles will make it possible to bring its full meaning to this reform, first and foremost the legislative vehicle, which seems to me the most suitable, because I know that, like me, you are a great supporter of the reform of autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u135	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u136	It is an idea, Madam Minister, that some would like to see domination: yesterday's assets, so today's seniors, would have a debt to young people – a debt, let's weigh the word well. A recent forum published on the initiative of Mrs Muriel Pénicaud, former Minister of Labour, and co-signed by Françoise Nyssen, former Minister of Culture, many CEOs of CAC 40 companies and leaders of liberal expert clubs, aims to give credit to this thesis. Pensioners are however the main victims of the health crisis, attacked long before this terrible sequence by the quasi-freezing – when it is not the reduction – of their pensions, which had consequences on their purchasing power. Pensioners are therefore not privileged, let alone ASPA's beneficiaries. Like young people between the ages of 16 and 25, a majority of them are part of the contingent of precarised women and men, largely forgotten of the sounding and stumbling solidarity measures so necessary and yet so insufficient in their daily lives in recent months. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The answer we are asking you to give this evening is not a matter of law, nor of means, but of national cohesion. Do you disassociate yourself from all these ideas, which would add to the social and economic ruptures that are raging in the country a generational rupture? And do you intend to include in the government agenda the indexation of pensions on price developments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u137	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u138	I share your feelings, even though the precariousness of our elders is a phenomenon well before the last three years. We have increased the minimum old age, i.e. the ASPA, as well as some other allowances, which I mentioned in my opening remarks. Whatever our political position, we need to take a serious look at the subject. For my part, I believe in intergenerational solidarity: today, children wonder about the care of their parents, parents worry that their dependence may one day cost their children. The real question that society must solve is therefore that of the rest of the dependents in the institutions that host the elderly, the price of dependency. We always reject her later, but she's the one we have to deal with. The problem of old age is always posed as if it only concerned the elderly, but you have pointed to it: it is in fact a problem of solidarity between the generations. We must build this one, thanks to this road map, for a real policy of the old age. Older people are not a burden, but a chance for our country. We will therefore work both on the question of the rest of the burden, now exorbitant even though the benefits are not always up to the level, and on everything that will allow the children not to worry about the care of their parents – which is sometimes their responsibility today. This situation has been going on for a long time: we will mention it in our road map.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u139	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u140	Protecting the health of people over the age of 75 and residents of EHPADs: this has been the focus of government action, including a vaccination strategy. Despite this considerable effort, many older people continue to suffer from isolation that has been exacerbated by the health crisis for pensioners, particularly the most vulnerable. More than ever, they must be listened to and supported on a daily basis in order to meet their basic needs; That is why I would like to pay tribute to the approximately 11 million caregivers who, in France, support a loved one who is losing his autonomy with dedication. I also express our gratitude to the professionals of the older age, whether they work in institutions or at the homes of the persons concerned. Unfortunately, this isolation is often the corollary of great insecurity: unhealthy housing, energy insecurity and financial distress. The increase of 100 euros of the minimum old age, presidential promise and then social measure of an unprecedented scale, allowed 500,000 people to pass above the poverty line; Only before the crisis. In addition, since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have been developing home care and encouraging intergenerational and inclusive housing that is dear to you, Minister. However, many older people, far from the help devices, pass under our radars. We must therefore redouble our efforts, in close connection with the communal centres for social action – CCIS – the social workers of the departments and the associations, in order to provide them with a close support, adapted, at the same time health – they must be able to access vaccination – and social, which will enable them to find as much as possible a normal life. As we face a third epidemic wave, by what measures do you intend to combat the isolation of our already tried and tested elders?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u141	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u142	You have addressed two topics at the same time: the precariousness and the isolation to which it leads. We can always try to remedy inequalities through financial measures, but this will not solve the social problem. In fact, we have actually raised the ASPA to 900 euros a month, not to mention the reforms that I was talking about earlier – which look like nothing, but are actually crucial, for example "100% health" in optics, dentistry, etc., knowing that these elderly people were giving up care. We created the Seniors Isolation Strategy Committee, which was recommended by several reports. Once again, I stress the intergenerational dimension, all the more important in our society because, precisely, some are seeking to provoke conflicts between generations: that is why we recently launched the civic service "senior solidarity", of which I can assure you that it was received with great joy and hope. When we ask these young people who are at our disposal to carry out missions to the elderly, not always in institutions, far from it, but on the contrary often in order to combat isolation, they say that they withdraw a great deal from it. It is a teaching from which everyone benefits; It is also an economic path, because we want to create a desire to engage in this professional path. Older trades are a pool of jobs: demand is high. That is what we are able to answer at this stage. As far as the fight against isolation is concerned, everything that can be done right now will be done. We rely heavily on the CASCs, which I know well for having worked there in the past, and whose role is essential: they are the ones who provide the most direct contact, by calling the people concerned, even organising visits to their homes. Without this territorial link, we will do nothing; So you have to do it with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u143	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u144	Since 2017, the Government has undertaken a series of reforms to better support older people by improving the functioning of health facilities and EHPADs, by developing the plan for equal access to care in the territories, the "my health 2022" strategy, and the law of 24 July 2019 on the organization and transformation of the health system. This policy has been reinvigorated by the Ségur de la santé, which has opened up the prospect of a net salary increase for public or private not-for-profit hospital and EHPAD staff. The Government's commitment to the issue of old age is therefore very clear. Unfortunately, the health crisis has shown how much more complex the challenges we will face in the coming years are in this area than we thought: for example, the attractiveness of old-age occupations in rural areas. While in some territories – including my own, where you have not yet visited, Madam Minister – the number of doctors is already largely insufficient for the general population, the fate of the elderly is a matter of major concern. As a result of demographic changes, my department, the Allier, is expected to have 137,000 people over the age of 60 in 2050, almost four in ten Bourbonnais. This increase in the number of dependents will mechanically lead to the increase in the need for recruitment, whether at home or in institutions. However, the vaccination campaign is the latest illustration of the lack of personnel in this sector. In addition, in rural areas, the remoteness of older persons living in their homes is a burden. In my constituency in Montluçon, we had to rely on highly committed volunteer doctors and nurses who have deployed all the resources of their imagination and courage to help the most isolated: we can only thank and support them. The reforms will, of course, have to include a component on the attractiveness of older occupations in the future. But, in addition, the issue of disparities between urban and rural areas deserves to be given high priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u145	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u146	I thank you for raising the problem of the territorial disparity and the lack of attractiveness of rural areas for professionals in the medical and medico-social sectors. This subject has particularly required me in my own territory, where not only doctors, but other personnel are lacking today. I have convinced the communities to experiment with the medical salariate, which has already been practised in some departments. This is not enough: territorial health projects need to be developed. The health crisis allowed many professionals to work together, sometimes even to discover that they could do so; Perhaps it will be a motivation, another way of doing things, in territories that would need this dynamic. Currently, it's bleeding; However, we want to be able to meet the needs of this home-based approach, which we call for, since the elderly want to stay at home. So there is a real subject here. At our level, we begin by focusing on the attractiveness of the care professions, to say more broadly, which are not limited to that of life assistants, but have many other categories of employees. I agree with your concern that the territories will need real multidisciplinary teams to respond to the challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u147	The floor is for Mr Nicolas Meizonnet, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u148	His name was Dominique. Married, father of the family, this surgeon spent his life at the bedside of others; During the last seventeen days of his life, no one was his. Admitted in clinic for having contracted covid -19, it was ultimately the result of an infection that took him last November, at only 70 years of age. During these seventeen days of hospitalization, his family tried everything to visit him. In the name of the health protocol, the doors of the facility remained closed, even though Dominique was no longer carrying the virus after seven days and his family could provide proof that they were not contaminated. During the last ten days of his life, he told them by telephone that he was suffering atrociously, less from sickness than from loneliness and insomnia that accompanied him; He waited alone to see one of his loved ones enter. The doors remained closed. He was alone the last day. When his family was able to visit him, his coffin had just been closed. Minister, how many Dominique are there in our hospitals and clinics? Since the beginning of the health crisis, we have witnessed the multiplication of testimonies from families who have not been able to see a parent one last time at the end of their lives. This situation is not only tragic, but unworthy, indecent, for both the sick and their loved ones. In the former, loneliness can determine a slip syndrome that precipitates death. In the latter, the impossibility of visits leads to deep sadness and often a sense of guilt. Farewell to the face is an essential element in the process of mourning; accompaniment to his people at the end of their lives, a fundamental component of our millennium civilization. The health crisis must in no way make us abandon our human values: that is why Marine Le Pen tabled this morning a bill, which I will co-sign, aimed at creating a right to visits that could be exercised by the patient or the resident himself, but also by his family or relatives whom he would have designated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u149	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u150	I conclude, Mr. President. My question will be simple: on behalf of the thousands of families who wish to visit a parent, on behalf of the thousands of people who wish to say goodbye to their loved ones, are you ready, minister, to support this bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u151	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u152	Thank you, Mr. Member, for this testimony. We've had similar ones in other situations, other places, and other regions. I would like to inform you that no protocol prohibited visits, especially to accompany the end of life – but I have indeed been told of such testimonies. I invite you to read the protocols. The ethical guide I mentioned earlier devotes an entire chapter to end-of-life accompaniment – which is necessary, almost mandatory, but which has sometimes not been respected in some places. Know this: the right to visits is almost enforceable, at least in our protocols. Of course, we too wish to honour the deceased and to accompany the living; That's the balance we need to find. A few spoke of various and varied proposals on this right of access. It goes without saying that access is also the right to accompany people at the end of their lives. I would like to remind you that at no time has there been any thought of the impossibility of accompanying people at the end of their lives. The right of access, now enshrined in the ethical guide, is thus reaffirmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u153	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your sincerity and the emotion that your interventions have shown. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1211.u154	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion on follow-up to the health crisis; Debate on the report of the commission of inquiry on the evaluation of public environmental health policies. The meeting is adjourned.
