ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic (No. 3649 corrected, 3797).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u2	This morning, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill. She began to hear the speakers in Rule 21, stopping at Ms Catherine Osson's speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u3	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u4	The President of the Republic, in his speech from the Walls, recalled how public education and education are at the heart of the formation of citizens and the inculcation, from an early age, of the values of the Republic. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the legitimate emotion in the country should not lead us to misinterpretation. First of all, let us remember the fundamental difference between home school attendance, to which the text does not affect, and family education. In a second phase, allow me to say things as I think they are...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u5	That's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u6	To believe in the Republic is to trust the institution of the school and the officials who commit themselves to it. Far from the words of the rostrum, believing in the Republic manifests itself in simple acts: for a parent, it is to enrol his own children in the public school,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u7	It's amazing to hear that! Everyone does what he wants!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u8	... and for Members, it is a considerable increase in the resources available to it, as we have done, far from the political postures. Yes, this majority has increased the means of national education as never before, despite a decline in the number of children in the last four years. And she will create classes if need be in the future. Finally, I say in complete peace, separatism begins where the exception intends to prevail in the face of the rule. Everyone is free to choose their education...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u9	Ah! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u10	...and every child counts. But let us be honest with ourselves: as very often, it is public solidarity, through the State, that will take over from parents at some point. Let us not insult, by sin of pride, the strength of our system. It was the school of the Republic that allowed me to become a teacher and then a deputy. It is not an insult to our values to do everything possible to ensure that as many children as possible can access them and thus discover the foundations of living together and of citizenship. The Government's system of prior authorization is in the right direction, in that it reaffirms the primacy of the State school over family education. However, I believe, Mr Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to explain and clarify our objectives in order to reassure ourselves. That is the meaning of the amendments that I will have the pleasure of presenting during the examination of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u11	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u12	As a member of the National Defence and Armed Forces Committee, I have had the opportunity to discuss with families of military personnel who practice family education on several occasions. Family education is often a well-suited solution for these audiences who are subject to severe geographical constraints and, above all, assignment. We must preserve this option. Article 21 also provides for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u13	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u14	But, as the title of the bill indicates, we are called here to defend respect for the principles of the Republic. The latter is based on three fundamental values – some have recalled throughout the morning: freedom, equality and fraternity. I listened carefully to this morning's debates. Here and there, some have invoked these values to defend their point of view and to call for the deletion of article 21, which, because it is intended to redefine and provide a framework for family education, would undermine the freedom of education. But what is it, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u15	Jules Ferry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u16	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] The objective of article 21 seems to me to be clear and simple: it is a matter of regulating and strengthening the provisions governing family education in order to better preserve this method of education and to enable families that respect the values of the Republic to exercise their free choice. In doing so, we will fight more effectively against sectarian and separatist drifts. All, on the benches of this assembly, on the left and on the right, you must indeed recognize one thing: the values of the Republic, and therefore our freedoms, are threatened – I weigh my words – by these radical, separatist practices, which exploit the current framework of family education to develop sectarian indoctrination and therefore contrary to the spirit of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u17	Where are the numbers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u18	So, to the families who practice family education in a republican spirit, and there are many of them, we must speak with courage and frankness. Is it a question of prohibiting family education? The answer is no. Is it better to frame him? The answer is yes. I have tabled amendments to make this framework as binding as possible for families that respect the Republic and its values. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We must tell those who defend family education in the name of freedom: "You are right. But, in the name of this freedom that is so dear to you, help us by agreeing to make an adaptation effort to fight separatism and defend the Republic and its values. By accepting this framework that is proposed to you, you will help us defend our freedoms for all, and therefore yours as well. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u19	It doesn't work and it won't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u20	Mr Bruno Studer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u21	On this issue, since this morning, there have been many deep and sincere convictions – we can, it seems to me, agree on this point. The debate which we are witnessing, and which will continue through the many amendments to abolish or reformulate the article which have been tabled, shows the great value of spending time on this issue. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Family education is dealt with here as part of a text on ways to strengthen respect for the principles of the Republic. Republican education takes place, first of all, within the school of the Republic: this is the principle on which I hope we can largely agree. This does not mean that there are no exceptions – Mr Le Bohec pointed out this morning that, in most cases, family education is delivered for a very short period of time, which confirms its exceptional character. But it is good to reaffirm this principle in the law. We are all attached to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u23	I listened to you this morning, colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u24	Religiously!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u25	Please let me speak, especially since this is the first time I have spoken. You are attentive to the ups and downs that come from the ground, in particular mayors of various political obediences, represented on all the benches of the National Assembly, who alert us to a growing phenomenon: de-schooling. The rapporteur, Anne Brugnera, has already considered the work of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education at length through a flash mission and delivered the conclusions in July 2018. In the face of a phenomenon that is growing every day, I have heard repeated calls for more controls. But maybe it's time to admit that we won't always be able to control everything. Who is responsible for day-to-day controls on the ground? The NIS, i.e. the inspectors of national education. But I would prefer that they spend more time with school teachers, to train them to better accommodate children with special needs – for example, in situations of disability or harassment. NETs must spend time with teachers to give them an outside look. Everyone knows the extent of the work that we need to do to reform the inspection of national education and to better support staff and help them adapt to a changing society and to the special needs that arise here and there. We will have to make progress on this point, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u26	We'd need more jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u27	So we will not be able to devote infinite means to controlling home education. I heard Mr de Courson asking for more checks; However, the demands of budgetary rigour are not alien to him. Not to mention the rigour, moreover, it is our responsibility to say that in order to do our job better within the school of the Republic, it is on it that we must concentrate our resources. This does not mean, however, that we must not give wages to the families we have received in our permanences and reassure them; It must be recognized that the reactions to the original version of the bill were understandable, since it was a question of prohibiting family education and that the administration's silence in the event of an appeal was a decision of rejection. That was not acceptable. The text, already greatly improved after its consideration by the Council of State, was also amended in special commission...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u29	... and the amendments to be submitted by each other, including by the Government, will make it possible to perfect it in order to reassure the persons concerned. Several colleagues have explained to us this morning that the vast majority of inspections give rise to a favourable opinion. There is therefore no reason to be wary of the position that the administration will adopt with regard to family education: once inspections are carried out – and many of us have confirmed – national education will not be intended to increase litigation. The new wording of article 21 clearly shows the path we wish to take. If we wish to submit family education to an application for authorization, it is simply to reverse the current logic: we must, at some point, recall what the principle is and what the exception is. If I respect each other's positions with regard to the transition from a reporting regime to an authorisation regime, I assure you that, in order to target problematic cases, we must give ourselves the means to get to the bottom of the problems. To this end, I believe that the mechanism of the application for authorisation is the most effective. I understand that you do not share this view, but let us allow the discussion to come to an end and gather on the principle that republican education is primarily carried out within the school of the Republic. Other cases are exceptions – sometimes remarkable, we all know examples – and must remain so. To this end, the School Avoidance Prevention Units will be able, in addition to the Ombudsman for National Education and Higher Education and the already existing dialogue between the administration and families, to play a mediation role which I hope will reassure all concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u30	Gas plant! We create administrative strata again and again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u31	Come on! Even if you want to open a bar, you need permission!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u32	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The care of children currently being educated at home in the coming years still needs to be dealt with by means of amendments. Let us do so and gather on the affirmation of the principle that, even if we can trust families, a prior rather than a posteriori control seems appropriate to guarantee the best interests of the child – since that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u33	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u34	We feel a little bit that we are involved in the general discussion of a bill in its own right, even though we are actually debating only a very small part of the text that has been before us for several weeks in a special committee, and then in this honourable House. We are dealing with a sensitive subject, on which no one has any truth. I am quite admired and envious of those who think I have one, I who have all the troubles of the world to forge a little conviction. It seems to me very delicate to denounce the alleged uncertainties or delays of the Government on the grounds that it is asking itself whether it is necessary to call into question a particular practice. When one goes straight, it is perceived as stubbornness or obstinacy; But as soon as we question each other by listening to the recommendations of each other, we are accused of hesitating or procrastination... We must go beyond these considerations. It also seems to me desirable to leave aside the somewhat dubious historical references such as the Third Reich or the Franco regime, referred to earlier by Charles de Courson, in which, it must be recalled, there was no constitutionality check... By the way, this arrangement seems finally to gain the support of our colleague, who hopes that if these provisions are not in conformity, the Constitutional Council will inform us of this – which, of course, we will take note of. To forge my very little conviction that I want to share with you here with great humility, I, like you, have listened a lot to all the people who have asked us, by coming to us or by calling us, to tell us of their doubts and concerns. After hearing all these testimonies, I was very divided. However, when you are a legislator, you have to decide at some point. So I ended up building a conviction. When a subject of reflection poses intellectual difficulties to me, I use a variety of processes that help me decide the issue before me. For example, I am trying to make a cost-benefit assessment: I am studying the relationship between the costs that the measures will entail and the benefits that can be expected from them. I also do a proportionality test, asking myself whether these measures are proportional to the aim pursued. Above all, I am apprehensive of the normative provision in its dynamic dimension, since the legislator does the right not for the moment to which it is legislating, but for the subsequent moments. It would seem to me that it would be short-sighted if we did not take into account the situation which has emerged before us in recent years, and which we can see in particular by observing the Arab-Muslim world, in which the relationship to education takes a very special form. It would be very damaging to refuse to see that. The number of people who are not enrolled in school is expected to rise exponentially in the coming years, simply because, in a part of the Arab-Muslim world, the schooling of girls is not provided for in the programme and that of young boys must be limited to a context of extremely marked religiosity. We would have a responsibility to history if we did not take this reality into account. This raises the problem of control, which is said today to be cheap. What will happen tomorrow when one or even two million students are no longer in school and subsequent checks are required? When I try to forge a conviction on a particular issue, I then wonder what the stakes are – that of preserving the freedom of a few thousand people in this case. It is understandable that they are deeply attached to it, and I respect this legitimate concern in all respects. On the other hand, we must also, and this is the purpose of this bill, preserve social cohesion as a whole, ensure that tomorrow we will still be society. It is therefore necessary to read the text, regardless of its convictions, and to examine, from a technical point of view, the proposed measures and the content of the normative framework on which we must rule as legislators. The bill thus provides for the replacement of a simple declaration with a prior authorization. Such procedures already exist in many areas of public law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u36	Is this such a strong sacrifice? But we're used to it. The text also provides for the attachment of the child to an electoral district or school, which seems to me to be a minimum approach that can be accepted without too much difficulty. Finally, the only question that can be problematic is the grounds for derogation. Is it possible to find a balance between, on the one hand, the protection of individual freedoms and, on the other, the need to preserve the social contract? We can put aside the first three, the child's disability, the practice of a sports activity or the homelessness of parents: everyone will agree on this. With regard to the fourth, the existence of a "child-specific situation", much has been said in our discussions about children who would feel uncomfortable in school, who would find it difficult to keep pace with them – whether too fast or too slow for them. This provision seems to me to fully address the concerns that have been expressed in this regard. [[Richard Lioger applauds]] A final point may give rise to concern. I imagine that it will depend on the answer that will be given that I will forge my conviction in a definitive way. As long as there is a system of prior control and authorisation, it is obviously necessary to enter the field of opportunity; But in a rule of law, it will be up to a judge to reach a definitive opinion on the situation. Will the scheme provided for in the article still, in the end, allow those who wish to do so – parents themselves teachers, or who have a somewhat special vision of life – to design a credible alternative project for their children and obtain permission to carry it out? Does such a project fall within the criteria for the fourth ground? If the answer is positive, I will support this measure without any nuance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u37	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u38	This is the state of my thinking on this thorny issue. With this article, I fear that we will once again touch upon the limits of an approach, between display and constraints, which characterizes the whole text. Family education is a possibility that exists in our country. This singular choice, subject to certain rules, is the result of an old principle which goes back to the aurora of the Republic, according to which education is compulsory. That principle was guaranteed by the State, which, as a guarantor of children's rights, made available public, free and secular schools. It is in all places of his life that one builds oneself, including with parents or with popular education. In this context, the school contributes to education. School is a precious asset because it is our common good, a way of caring for all children. However, no one can ignore that it too is experiencing the crisis of trust that affects all institutions. In this regard, the announcements made in recent days about the school map do not make any difference to me, especially since they come after a policy whose educational ambitions have been revised downwards even though it should be strengthened in order to better apply the republican principles. I believe in the school of the Republic. I believe in school as a place of encounters, otherness, mix and socialization as well as learning. It is, as far as possible, carried by the fierce will of those who do it on a daily basis and whose extent and difficulty were measured during confinement. Better yet, we must empower the school to live up to the needs and expectations, to ensure the emancipation and success of everyone. However, for various reasons, some parents do not use this education. Without promoting this choice, I wonder whether this possibility should not exist as a precaution of principle against the possibility of arbitrary action. This is perhaps the current philosophy of law. Those who have argued this possibility because it seemed fruitful to them and who have therefore made a particular choice of organization and life – apart from any spirit of secession and retreat for the most part – have recently felt injured, even stigmatized, and fear that it will disappear. If it is this choice in itself that poses a problem, the bill you are proposing does not go far enough. If this is not the case, should we not use other means to act? The proposal that you put on the table indeed appears bancal and a little sibyllin. In the event of a symbolic rupture, it replaces the obligation of education with the obligation of schooling, which puts an end to the possibility of family education and pre-empts the situation of those who have made this choice. By the way – but we will come back to it in the rest of the discussion – we would like to see so much zeal with regard to the situation of out-of-contract schools, which would be justified because in this case it is not at all a question of individual freedom. I therefore do not agree with this proposal, which contains three specific criteria and a rather vague "joker criterion". This gives the feeling that one wishes, on the one hand, to reserve this practice to children whom the school does not really afford itself the means to receive and, on the other, to face the challenge, to introduce a small possibility left to the discretion, if not to the discretion, of the academic head.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u39	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u40	As things stand, I do not believe that this measure would solve the problem raised. If we want to ensure – as is my case – that the way of family education is not taken in a spirit of sectarianism, obscurantism or fundamentalism, it is possible to act without reversing the principles of law, not to operate this rupture, this questioning of the current situation, but to better control the use that is made of the possibility of family education. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] That is why, through a few amendments – which also bear witness to the fragility of the drafting of the text – I propose other measures, not disproportionate, aimed at avoiding the instrumentalisation of this choice and at enabling the State to guarantee full respect for children and their right to full growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u41	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u42	I associate myself with my colleague Marie-Noëlle Battistel, Member of Parliament for Isère. Like my colleague and friend André Chassaigne, I am kneaded with doubts. Like him, I'm viscerally attached to Republican school for all. It's a beautiful ideal. But the reality of the field is quite different. To tell you everything, this reality of family education, I did not know it; I discovered it with this bill and clause 21. At the outset, I said to myself that it was obviously necessary to vote for this article, that it represented a chance for all those children who did not go to school and that it certainly concerned only a few children in a handful of departments. But I quickly realized that this was not the case, that all the departments were concerned, that family education was practised in both rural and urban areas, in modest families as well as in affluent families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u44	Because the reasons that drive families to educate their children at home are very diverse: disability, school phobia, harassment or long journeys. The EFI can also be conducted for several years or chosen more episodicly to respond to a cyclical difficulty. The families who use this practice, in any case those I have met, are not against school or against democracy. They simply chose another way of life. Some are even obliged to do so because, despite all good wishes, the school is not suitable for all children. The IEF has sometimes even saved some of them. Of course, there are fundamentalists who want to radicalize their children, but this often happens outside the rules of the IEF – because these rules exist and are subject to real control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u46	I talked to an inspector from my constituency who controls every year the few families concerned in the department of Puy-de-Dôme, which is very good. And if this is not the case everywhere in France, the minister must give himself the means to remedy it. However, my inner conviction – even if it is only my opinion and I may not be right – is that there is no need to remove a right, a freedom, to replace it with an authorization that, according to the territories, will not be applied in the same way. Again, I may be wrong, but I have a deep feeling that you made a mistake in writing this article. Of course, children must be protected from all forms of drift. If you know illegal schools, shut them down, and right away, because you have the opportunity. The clandestine schools exist, that's true, but they have nothing to do with the IEF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u48	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Refrain from this article 21. I am and I remain the flag bearer of instruction by the school; It's the rule, and it protects all our children. But when the school cannot respond to a particular situation, often painful, parents have the right to turn to family education. This freedom is flexible, let us not make it complicated; There is no need for additional rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u49	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u50	Everything has already been said this morning about the contradiction of Article 21, including by fervent defenders of the public school to which I too owe everything; including by former teachers who have met and listened, in all their diversity of motivations and situations, to families who educate their children at home. The article misses its target, it organizes suspicion and anguish for families committed and proud to educate their children themselves with the utmost care and respect of the Republic. Despite his rewrites, this article still denies the freedom of parents to feed an educational project. It considers only a child-specific situation, a concept that is unclear if it is. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] If Pierre Curie, Marguerite Yourcenar, Taig Khris or Judit Polgár, the greatest chess player of all time, were all educated with the family, it was not because of their particular situation, but because their parents had a project for them Their profiles, forged with respect for singularity, also enriched our society. France, so attached to freedom, should deny this right that is found in almost all European countries? But above all, what example do we give, ladies and gentlemen? On what basis are we going to amend the Ferry Law, respectable totem of the Republic that you and I admire, Minister? An indigent and partial impact study,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u51	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u52	... particular cases and some unfortunate weeks of discussion where our predecessors of 1882 had taken years to debate, editorials that changed until the last minute...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u53	We saw him again this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u54	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Working under such conditions is not worthy of our requirement as legislator to address a topic, education, which is at the heart of any social project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u55	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u56	Minister, I feel sorry for you because you have the wrong role. It all started when, in his speech to the Walls, Emmanuel Macron announced that school education would be made compulsory and family education strictly limited, especially to health requirements. That's when the trouble started for you... After the ban, you went back with a licensing regime. But you know that a liberty subject to authorization is no longer a real freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u57	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u58	We always go back to the original sin of the bill: as you do not want to name the enemy, Islamism, you punish everyone in a general text. Article 21 is the perfect example: you refuse to target Koranic schools, you submit to authorization family education, which is a right. In doing so, you penalize all families who respect the rules and who do not understand why they are no longer free to offer their children the appropriate education they need. A distrust towards those who respect the rules, a slap, a real injustice: this is how families live it. [[Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Charles de Courson applaud]] At the same time, there is nothing about public school in the bill. Let me remind you of three figures. Eight hundred incidents took place during the tribute to Samuel Paty: circulate, there is nothing to see! One in two teachers in priority education networks say they have already self-censored: there too, no problem... Six out of ten teachers say they have already seen acts of separatism in the classroom, but how important? Open your eyes, don't get the wrong target. Family education concerns 1.6% of pupils in France, of which only 2% are problematic: only 2% must be tackled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u59	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u60	We are at the heart of an important debate that involves, in substance, the role of families and the role of schools, as well as the transmission model from one generation to the next. I want to stress the role of families: ever since, structural cultural values – a cultural bath that is the very basis of the world's perception – naturally pass from one generation to another in the family setting through spontaneous reactions to the great events of life, proverbs, possibly a language or even knowledge of the geographical environment. The role of the school is equally important in the area of socialization, the acquisition of technical knowledge and common civic and moral values, which also directly participate in the personality of the child. I don't forget that so many people have been able to get out of poverty or build their lives because of what the school has brought them. Each in its place, the contributions of one – the family – and the other – the school – are objectively complementary, at least should be. Let us not hide the reality: there is danger in the air, drifts, manipulations. Education and transmission must be carried out with strict respect for the child's future choices. This is at stake: the choices of the future adult must remain open. At the very least, therefore, there is a need for a solid check on the seriousness and neutrality of family values. I anticipate, as you will have understood, paragraph 15 of the article, since the controls carried out so far are clearly insufficient. Many colleagues fight in the name of family freedom. Of course, she deserves it, but the freedom of the child's future choices and immediate well-being must also be defended. The amendment tabled by the Government implies, from this year onwards, serious controls on the quality and neutrality of education. It is therefore necessary to put in place sufficient means to guarantee their effectiveness. I stress this, because we feel that services do not have the means to carry out sufficient and in-depth checks. [[Charles de Courson applauds]] We all know that the vast majority of the 62,000 children involved in family education receive serious education and a lot of affection and love. But we also know that there are farfeluses and lights. Minister, would there be only one child to protect, and it would be our duty to do so, and to do so seriously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u61	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor, and there is only a little more than a minute left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u62	Luckily, we get a few seconds of speaking time...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u63	Above all, we must thank the Government for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u64	And don't lose it when you don't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u65	... in a debate where the first opposition party was forbidden to speak. I will therefore be able to defend the position of the elected representatives of the National Rally on the question of the end of family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u66	That's not what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u67	This measure is indicative of a certain cowardice: you prefer to penalize the vast majority of families that respect French values, rather than target the problem Islamist minority. I fully agree with the arguments put forward by other colleagues of different sensitivities about the tragic consequences of such a provision. Minister, you cannot prohibit family education when it is a fundamental freedom recognized as constitutional and defended by the Council of State. It is the last chance for some children in difficulty at school, or harassed, to get out of failure and regain confidence in them; It is a way of salvation for gifted children who can benefit from appropriate education. You cannot ban it as you speed up school graduation and the level of our children falls to the point that France becomes the laughing stock of the world. It should also be noted that the cases of children at risk of radicalization and identified during the control of education at home are exceptional, as highlighted in the vade-mecum "Instruction in the Family" written by the departments of your ministry in November 2020. On behalf of the deputies of the National Assembly, I ask you to delete this article. Only 70 per cent of families who have chosen home education are monitored: let us enforce the law and ensure that all are. Do not reduce the freedoms of honest people and fight Islamist separatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u68	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u69	I speak on behalf of French nationals residing abroad who use distance education, particularly with the CNED, which is taking place at home in most cases. These families follow our debates and would like to know whether, on their return to France, they will be able to maintain this method of education, knowing that, for many of them, the return to France is only one step before another departure abroad. Maintaining the same education system, regardless of the place of residence, is beneficial to their children. In addition, it is important that those who choose to attend school within the French teaching network abroad obtain an INE number – national identification of students – as soon as they register in order to facilitate the follow-up of their schooling and their steps when returning to France, whether for their compulsory education or for higher education. It is estimated that more than 150000 students of French nationality are enrolled in the French school network abroad; It is therefore essential to take account of their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u70	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u71	It's tough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u72	I am a pure product of public school, I owe a lot to my teachers and I keep the memory of teachers who are very respectful of the religious convictions of the families who entrusted their children to them. But the real question now is: how is it that children, teenagers who have spent more than ten years in school become terrorists once they are young men? How come our school is childish monsters?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u73	Yes! That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u74	It's not the school in charge, it's the indoctrination morning, noon and night!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u75	That is the subject that should bring us together for long hours, and that is what needs to be eradicated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u76	No trials for teachers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u77	Instead of dealing with this problem, you look at the fate of a few families who have made a singular choice. This is neither the choice my parents made for me nor the choice I made for my children, but I respect it because it is about freedom. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I don't like being sued for families like some are doing. Especially since we have all received many of these families and we have been able to realize that the cartoons mentioned are not relevant. We were told that they were turbanized parents who were going to indoctrinate their children; Not at all. Mrs. Anne-Christine Lang, who is in the anti-catho,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u78	Be respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u79	... spoke about the education of young girls in white corsages and pleated blue dresses; Not at all. It is very varied: we find people of all kinds, who reflect, I am convinced, little or no the ideological composition of our assembly. I say this especially to our friends of the majority: let us respect the difference, let us not treat these families as suspects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u81	Suspects aren't in public school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u82	To make me understand, I would like to parody a poet and a great songwriter of the 20th century: no, walkers do not like to follow a road other than them. That's exactly it: these families follow another road that is not the majority road, and is not intended to become one, but it corresponds to a choice and a plan of life. I am convinced that with telework and the presence of families at home, this type of education will develop. This social demand must be taken into account and respected, which I believe is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u83	You want the school dismantled!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u84	No, walkers don't like to follow a road other than them... Let's accept the difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u85	Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u86	Minister, pay attention to the writings of a number of intellectuals: they feel that the Government is becoming illiberal. It is true that everything that has happened in the context of the crisis of the Covid -19 contributes to this reflection: we have reduced our freedoms. Again, we are reducing a fundamental freedom, a freedom desired by Jules Ferry, Minister. You have the immense honour of being one of his successors, who inscribed in the marble this freedom at the same time as he built the public school. That is what we ask you: respect Jules Ferry's commitments, respect those of the Republic, respect the freedom of parents. (Applause from the benches of the LR group. – Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u87	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u88	It is one voice among others in my group who speaks on a particularly delicate subject. Freedom of education is a right, and education outside public schools has spread and is being strengthened under the aegis, for example, of family education. It is not a question of denying this ability, but of being rigorous in the transmission of knowledge, both from a pedagogical point of view and from the transmission of knowledge itself, at a time when social, cultural and religious separatism is manifested in the most diverse, explicit or implicit forms. We are talking about the alteration of a fundamental freedom. The question is whether to consolidate, under the authority of national education and the family, the project of a child's life, with respect for his or her specific and primary interests, falls within the scope of this alteration. In my view, the authorisation system should therefore be based on the principles of benevolence and mutual trust between national education and families. This is the subject of one of our group's amendments. The construction of an educational project with the family and the co-construction to which you call should be appreciated as a positive sequence giving rise to this faculty or, a contrario, to a stop on image, a potentially blurred image of the base of knowledge in fundamental knowledge, hard sciences or social sciences that could be transmitted to the heart of the family. This is how I understand this approach, and that is what should be the purpose of this authorization. I do not believe for a single moment that family solicitations cannot be carefully considered in the light of the particular situations of the children concerned. To this end, we will propose – and this is the subject of Amendment No 1990 which I was talking about at the moment – that a collegial decision be taken based on harmonised criteria at national level, giving the right, in case of refusal, to an appeal which will give rise to the hearing of the family. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] As you will have noticed, this is a collective amendment by our group, which everyone could consider as an amendment of withdrawal, but which nevertheless wants to be a reasonable contribution to the drafting of such a sensitive article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u89	Mrs Anne Brugnera, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter V of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, after your many speeches, I would like to return to three points which I believe are essential. First, it is necessary to reiterate that article 21 does not abolish family education...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u91	He's threatening her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u92	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It remains a possibility that is part of the panel of a child's education in France. This panel includes public school, contract private school, out-of-contract private school and family education. Section 21 is intended to provide a better framework for family education, and I will come back to that. This is indeed a change since we will move from a pre-reporting regime to a pre-authorization regime. This is the project. Why the change? In order, in a way, to protect the family education that is today misguided...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u93	Numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u94	... hijacked by a number of families that harm him and harm his image.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u95	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u96	Secondly, why talk about family education in this text? The question has been asked on several occasions. First of all, because the purpose of the bill is to protect all areas of our society that are threatened by separatism, including education, but also the sport that we will be talking about in section 25. I heard another question: why are we talking only about family education, private schools under contract and private schools out of contract, and not about public school?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u97	Because you needed scapegoats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u98	Because we recently passed a law, the law for a school of trust, which deals in part with the subject of public school. For out-of-contract private schools, we also legislated by passing the law of April 13, 2018, known as the Gatel Act, which we are improving with the bill after having had experience of the difficulties encountered in closing off out-of-contract private schools that do not comply with the regulations. The aim of this bill is to strengthen respect for the principles of the Republic. But to reinforce these principles, we must start by learning them. If the majority of this learning is done in school, it can also be done in the context of family education. It is therefore important to deal with it in this text. Finally, why are we also talking about children in the bill? Because the best interests of the child seem to us to be a principle that must also be defended. Thirdly, what are we really doing with Article 21? We propose that family education, so far subject to prior declaration and checks, should now be subject to prior authorisation, followed by checks. For the issuance of this prior authorization, we expect parents to explain the reasons for their choice on the basis of a fairly long list in order to respond to all the variety of possible motivations, which you have been many to stress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u99	You're not the one who's going to do the checks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u100	We have heard from specialized researchers in family education; They explained that the EFI basically responded to 130 different reasons. We have selected four of them, one of which is the fourth one that allows us to take into account all this diversity. We'll talk about it again. We also anticipate that, in their application for prior authorization, parents will describe their ability to educate their child in the family, in particular their availability. You have all received families who educate their children in this context; You know how much they dedicate themselves, some have dropped a job to educate their child. This availability, which we see in a large number of affected families, needs to be checked for all. The administration will have two months to respond to the request for prior authorisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u101	Gas plant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u102	Its silence beyond this deadline will be a decision of acceptance. Refusals will be motivated, and I will propose the creation of an appeal unit, which responds to the request of several Members from different groups. In conclusion, I would like to say a word about the children and families who are now involved in family education. Of course, families, who so far knew only the advance reporting system, are concerned about this change in the system. We have all received and heard them, and we have already taken into account a number of requests in the amendments adopted in committee – I am thinking of the postponement of one year from the entry into force of the scheme or the possibility of granting authorisation for several years in the case of sick or disabled children. Family education responds to a wide variety of situations and motivations. We agree that family education corresponds to needs at some point in the children's journey. I will keep from generalizing in one direction or the other; I know perfectly well that family education is going well in a large number of families...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u103	Well?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u104	In more than 99% of cases!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u105	Excuse me, but I'm capable of nuances! Nevertheless, there are cases where things go wrong, there are sectarian drifts, abuse, ill-educated children, uneducated children. That is why we need to legislate and better regulate family education. Several of you have expressed doubts about section 21 and the transition to prior authorization. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear your doubts and I will answer all your questions as the amendments are amended so that we are all extremely clear on the transition from the pre-authorisation statement to the pre-authorisation that allows family education to be preserved by protecting it at the same time...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u106	The famous "at the same time" that has not brought much to the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u107	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] ...misappropriation while protecting children and their right to education in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u108	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u109	I agree, of course, with everything that has just been said by the rapporteur, and I thank all Members for their contribution to the debate on a subject which can be said, first of all, that it deserves the reflection and respect of the thought of others. This subject deserves not only the use of dialectics, it is what has happened, but also that one does not caricature the position of the opponent. Yet, throughout the morning, I heard some caricatural talk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u110	There are no opponents in the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u111	I'll give you notice! Thank you for saying that we are not adversaries. Sometimes you feel the opposite when you hear the excesses of some words. It is very important to take account of societal developments and to be consistent with the values we defend. What are these values? First of all freedom. Freedom of education is one of them, we all agree. Then comes the general interest, which is not just the sum of the particular interests. We all know that the landscape is today made of the advance of radical Islamism and that this radical Islamism seeks to instrumentalize children in different ways. It implements them regardless of how they attend school: at the State school, at the private school under contract, at the private school out of contract and in family education. Contrary to what has been said by some of you, it is on these four dimensions that we are acting and we have not waited today: we have already done much for the school of the Republic. It is therefore to caricature the position which is mine, to say that we do nothing on this subject. On the contrary, we are even doing much more than governments that you have been able to support in the past. I am thinking of the creation of the council of the sages of secularism, the "Values of the Republic" teams or the series of interventions on the ground that we carry out on this subject, without ever failing. So, yes, the school of the Republic is defended from the point of view of secularism but, of course, what we have done in this area extends to other areas. With regard to the out-of-contract school, there was the Gatel law, everyone stressed its importance – I am pleased to see that today the subject is already consensual; It wasn't when we discussed it, it's a good thing. We also deal with out-of-contract schools in the bill: section 23 deals with their closure. It is therefore a caricature to pretend that we have focused on family education: it seems to me that it is the contestations that focus on this subject. Without repeating what the rapporteur has said, I would like to refer to the practical aspect of the proposed provisions before turning to a more political aspect, which has been widely discussed this morning. I would like to recall that we have worked hard on family education by listening to each other, in special committees, but also upstream and downstream. This has made it possible to make a large number of arrangements which will be perfectly visible throughout our discussion. These arrangements now allow us to draw a landscape of freedom for family education. Several of you have said this: like all freedoms, this one is also the subject of supervision. Take the right of ownership: property is a very important freedom,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u112	Especially for squatters!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u113	...but it's obviously framed. If you want to build on your own land, you need permission. It is obvious that all freedoms need supervision, and that is even the guarantee that we are dealing with freedom. And as far as family education is concerned, there was a certain legal vacuum in which extremists were engulfed. All possible examples of successful family education can be cited. I can do that, too, but it is easy, even though I am well aware, as the rapporteur has said right now, that family education is going well in a number of cases. We are going to preserve what is going well, but there are also cases where family education is the appearance of radical Islamism. Don't pretend to ignore him! It is quite surprising to hear you hold extremely radical speeches against radical Islamism, and then to see that you seem to ignore this reality as soon as you have the opportunity to find a political tool to challenge a government proposal. Yet it does exist. In the future, prior authorisation will be necessary and we have accepted the possibility of an appeal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u114	Oh, that's sweet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u115	We have accepted many of the changes that we will discuss in detail – this fourth particular reason that allows specific educational projects for children who need them. All these elements, and there will be others, mean that, of course, the family education that is going well, with parents who are not tempted by any radicalization or sectarianism, can continue. Why pretend to think otherwise? This reminds me of the amendment that we discussed this morning to change the heading "Provisions relating to family education" to "Provisions relating to the restriction of family education". It is a kind of will to describe things as if they were worse than what they are, as if to rejoice, for the pleasure of criticizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u116	With your text, you become the attacker!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u117	This may eventually be harmful, because by describing things like this, your words may become self-fulfilling prophecies. Fortunately, we will not restrict this freedom; On the contrary, we are going to supervise him and thus better protect those who do well with family education. This is an important point. Some people are free to pretend to understand the opposite, but they are wrong because the draft we are presenting is a text protecting a freedom. We will go into the details that will demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u118	It's grotesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u119	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will end on a political level, because I cannot help but make a few observations in the light of the history of ideas, on the left and on the right, in our country. I was surprised to hear on the benches of the left of this assembly a real abandonment, at times, of what constitutes the heart of the doctrine, in the history of the left, in the matter of public school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u120	Because it's not about public school, it's about public school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u121	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] This, I think, will unfortunately mark history, because some of the comments devote changes that could be feared. I have been happy over the last few months to hear Mr Faure defend secularism. In my foreground, I thought it might be the reunion of a certain left-wing government with itself, which I found salutary for her. Unfortunately, what I heard today from Mr Faure's mouth erases everything he said earlier... The Socialist Party has problems with its own name: I suggest that it now be called a "socialist party", it will consecrate what we have just heard. Similarly, what we have heard from André Chassaigne is, it was very well said by Francis Chouat, quite surprising: how can we praise the public school at this point, to conclude that a measure to defend the school of the Republic can be negative, simply out of the desire to oppose this government, even if it burns its own values? With regard to right-wing benches, how not to be surprised by the arguments I have heard: how can one pretend not to see that family education has been instrumentalized by some,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u122	Numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u123	... pretending not to see that it is our will to put an end to this phenomenon? We hear you all day arguing against radical Islamism, assuming that the Government is not doing enough, and at a time when the Government is taking up this problem, which is a problem among others – of course it is not the only one – you are suddenly pretending not to see the reality on the ground! It's still very surprising. I will come back in detail to the legal and practical aspects. Yes, as some of you have said, we must show kindness. Yes, the families who listen to us may be certain that, as long as they respect the principles of the Republic, there will be no problem with family education. But, yes, those who take advantage of family education to serve their radicalization business need to know that we will be intractable. Perhaps we are the only ones; Fortunately, we are the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u124	It's Laignel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We are also, beyond the small calculations that may exist on these subjects, for the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u126	We come to the amendments to Article 21. I have before me a number of amendments which tend to delete the article. On Amendments Nos 1 and 1 I have before me a request for a public vote by the Republic on the move and the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u127	[[Other movements]] It is my honour to defend the first amendment in a long series for the deletion of this article and I am doing so on behalf of our colleague Pierre Cordier, unfortunately retained in the Ardennes by class deletions in his constituency. Mr Minister, I would like to be very kind to give you five warnings about what you are doing, and that is the story of this quinquennium. The first: when there are such strong oppositions, from very left to very right,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u128	You're talking about yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... such mobilization in the country has always been because the texts in question posed a real problem, and they have never been successful. The amendments that you tabled at the last minute just show one thing: all this will lead to a gas plant that will not solve your problems, neither ours nor those of the families. The second warning is that of the risk of unconstitutionality. I will quote a great thinker of national education, Mr.Minister, who declared before the Senate on June 18th that family education was based on "a powerful constitutional foundation." How right you were! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Third warning: you question something sacrosanct in our country: the freedom of families to know and decide what is good for their children. And it is also the responsibility of parents to have such an educational project. Fourth warning: I am not one of the naive people about what is happening in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u130	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u131	Why this article? Because a number of people leave their children from the school of the Republic so that they are not in contact with these values, hoping to raise them in the name of a radical fundamentalist Islam, far from what our country is. There are controls; Unfortunately, in many cases, there are not enough of them. Your job is to make sure they're effective. When one speaks of so few cases, between the filters of the municipality and those of the inspection, it is obvious that one will manage to circumscribe them, to put the parents in step and to face their responsibilities. Finally, the fifth warning: you know very well that by putting in place such a blurred, porous derogatory regime, it will be applied in a totally heterogeneous way in our territories. Those who will benefit from medical exceptions will not always be those who need them. The lesson of all of this is that it is better to control the application of a good measure than to prohibit it and install an a priori filter that will be even more unfair than the controls you could put in place. In conclusion, this measure will play exclusively to the detriment of honest families...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u132	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u133	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... whose children thrive and come back to the time in the higher school system, often with a very good level, and it is also a lesson on what is happening at school today. This will be done at the expense of children who are unfortunately suffering in the current school. We must all, and you first, minister, learn from this quinquennium: the sooner a mistake is corrected, the simpler it is to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u134	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u135	The aim of this amendment is, without surprise, to abolish Article 21, which replaces the obligation to attend school and thus undermines the free choice of family education, which would be allowed only in the case of special situations, without knowing the criteria on the basis of which such authorizations would be granted, criteria which, if left to the discretion of the academic services, may well not be the same throughout the country, as our colleague has just said. This freedom, the right of parents to choose the education of their children is fundamental and must not, cannot be called into question. Family education provides an appropriate response to children who could not fully develop in a traditional pattern that is not suitable for them: I am thinking of children who are victims of harassment, those who suffer from school phobia, or children who need special attention or pedagogy. We can only share the stated objective of fighting separatism, radicalization, but you bring a wrong answer and make a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u137	To respond to the drifts of community education by proposing to challenge home education, an alternative educational model that has proven its worth, is a clear mistake. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Minister, the number of colleagues who have signed deletion amendments on all these benches, but also the number of co-signatories – I have identified more than 170 of all sensitivities – should lead you to question the merits of your proposal, which is clearly an error of assessment. A mistake that you have to correct by giving up this article and removing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u138	Identical amendments Nos. 48 by Emmanuel Maquet, 57 by Emmanuelle Ménard, 63 by Fabien Di Filippo, 148 by Philippe Gosselin, 156 by Fabrice Brun, 173 by David Lorion, 178 by Anne-Laure Blin, 261 by Yves Hemedinger, 289 by Xavier Batut, 291 by Frédérique Meunier and 420 by Xavier Breton were defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 537.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u139	Minister, last year in the Senate, Jean-Marie Bockel asked you about home education and your answer was very clear: "Freedom of home education has a powerful constitutional foundation. And you added: "On the legal side, I think we have achieved a good balance. You are a specialist in public law. When a public law specialist claims that this right is constitutional and that you are speaking before Parliament not just of balance but of good balance, we can consider that it should be left to that. So the question is simple: what made you, in the space of a few months, turn 180 degrees in comparison to what you said very solemnly and safely in the Senate? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] Moreover, you who are a specialist in these legal matters, what about a liberty under guardianship, which will be subject to authorization? We enter a system where freedom is no longer really one. Do you seriously think that by doing this you will solve the problem? Do you think that families imbued with radical Islamism will be stopped by your measures? One thing, however, is certain: you will create problems for families that pose absolutely no problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u140	Amendment No 617 by Mr Philippe Meyer is being defended. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 688.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u141	I would like to begin by reiterating my visceral attachment to our school, a school that brings much more than knowledge, which enables millions of children to flourish, to acquire know-how, to live together. Going to school is a chance, a chance for many children, and I confess that at one time I didn't understand those parents who I didn't think gave their children that chance. However, my amendment seeks to delete Article 21, in the name of equal opportunities, the one which our society must offer to each of our young people, because unfortunately some of them do not find themselves in this system and fail to flourish there. The most important is the best interests of the child. I understand of course your fight against radical Islamism, which is also ours, but I do not think that this article will achieve this objective. Too many families have made this choice, because it is their right, because it is a life project, but also, often, because it is the last solution available to them for their children, feel penalized and are worried, as you said, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u142	Amendment No 780 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 838.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u143	The Government referred to the increase in the misuse of family education to establish de facto schools. Without denying this phenomenon, the link between radicalisation and family education is far from being shared by the actors in the field. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of learning to listen to others and I have listened to you: at no time have you been able to convince me, to prove to me how to go through the mode of declaration will solve the problem of those who are not declared today. They won't be more visible tomorrow. Worse, by your attitude, you are creating separatism among families that have hitherto respected the law. I would like to go back to the argument put forward by our colleague Francis Chouat. Based on what is happening in his constituency, there would be a clear and proven link between family education and radicalization. However, if my information is good, this is not a new situation. You have long held responsibilities in this territory, Mr. Chouat. So what did you do to fight these drifts? If the problem is known, why didn't you apply the law and strengthen the controls in the cities concerned? [[Mr. Marc Le Fur and Mr. Cédric Villani applaud]] But we rely on what we see in my beautiful department of the Somme, we find no connection between the IEF and radicalization. It is therefore at the national level that the link between the two needs to be updated. According to the cells for preventing radicalisation and accompanying families, in May 2019, 215 children in IEF were suspected of radicalisation; As of June 2020, the number was 224. In other words, despite the significant increase in the number of children in IEF, the evolution is almost zero. There is therefore no correlation between the IEF and radicalisation, hence my deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u144	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 887.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u145	Like many colleagues, I have tabled an amendment to delete section 21 in response to the minister. [[Smile. – Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LR group]] First of all, I was shocked, Minister, that you were astonished by the evolution of some members of the left. I personally welcome this and you should also congratulate yourself! Why always seek to oppose one another and divide one another? On the contrary, the French must be brought together. Secondly, you are completely wrong in thinking that this text will effectively combat Muslim fundamentalism. When journalists call your ministry to find out how many of the 62000 children involved in home education are likely to be radicalized, they are given a figure between 2000 and 3000 children. It's a joke! The famous vade-mecum on education in the family, published in November 2020 by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, explained: "The cases of children exposed to a risk of radicalisation and identified during the monitoring of education in the family home are exceptional. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u146	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We can't but rejoice! You cannot justify a provision in a few cases out of 62000. Where are we going?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u148	Do you want to let that happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u149	The truth is, you can't answer the questions you're being asked because you don't know. You mentioned only one case in Seine-Saint-Denis, in two Koranic schools, but on how many students in total? In fact, by mentioning these two schools, you plead against your camp: you told us that half of the children were declared in IEF, but did a minimum annual check take place? Obviously, this is a malfunction – you yourself acknowledged it when I asked you about this in a special committee. You need to strengthen the means of control, but there is no need to change the law. Thirdly, we have raised many constitutional questions about the article and we are not the only ones: the Council of State has itself recently voted against the bill, which violates one of the fundamental rights recognized by the laws of the Republic. But you never answer those arguments. All this will end in the Constitutional Council, for the benefit, I hope, of freedom! As for the deterioration of the school level, of which you never speak, do the children educated with the family have a better level than the others? All the studies show that yes. Controls also show that radicalisation cases are marginal since they are estimated at 2% of the families under control – but not all of them. In conclusion, today you are making a serious mistake against the tens of thousands of families who have chosen home education. Whether you want it or not, the bill is for them a real assault – open your eyes! They came to tell us at the hearings of the special committee, and they told you that. What do you say to them? "You are good Republicans, so we will control you and demand prior authorization! » If the bill were passed as it stands, how many of the 62,000 families who chose home education will be prevented by a negative decision of your services? You are not even able to answer that question. Do you realize what you're doing? [[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] Dear colleagues of the majority who are not yet enlightened, wake up! Listen to the deputies on the left! Some may have been surprised, but I applauded André Chassaigne when he spoke. Listen to the deputies of the right and center!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u150	It's the union of conservatism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u151	For my part, I'm a centrist! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] Listen to them, otherwise all this will end up in the Constitutional Council that will decide, and I'll pay a bottle of champagne when he makes his decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u152	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No 909.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u153	It is also intended to delete article 21. I consider that families that educate their children at home do not have to be expiatory victims of the Government's lack of political courage in the fight against separatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u154	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u155	Amendment No 949 by Mr Olivier Marleix is being defended. Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u156	I will be brief because of the scheduled legislative time. Article 21 contravenes the constitutional freedom of education, particularly in the family. Why are you attacking this freedom of constitutional value by transforming a declaration regime, whose system of control is effective when properly applied, into an authorization regime, in which prohibition is the principle and freedom the exception?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u157	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u158	I also note that, among the four reasons cited in the bill to justify the authorization to derogate from the obligation to attend a public or private educational institution, there is one that is sorely lacking, to which the parents are strongly attached: that of their pedagogical conviction and freedom of choice. On the form, article 21 seems totally unconstitutional. On the merits, there is absolutely no justification, as no study has been carried out to verify the link between the EFI and radicalisation or separatism. We have told you many times: your text misses its target, creates collateral damage, will not solve problems and, moreover, stigmatizes republican families who have not asked for anything. This is unacceptable! You keep referring to the two clandestine Koranic schools that were dismantled, some of which were enrolled in IEF. Who is mocked to legislate in this way on constitutional freedom? Don't you think it would have been wiser to legislate on the prohibition of girls' veils?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u159	Amendments Nos 1048 by Mr Benoit Potterie and 1101 by Mr Guillaume Larrivé were defended. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 1151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u160	In its opinion of 3 December 2020, the Council of State stated that the draft law restricted "the freedom of parents to choose for their children a mode of education, limiting it to the choice between public or private schools or institutions" and considered that, while the reform did not appear to encounter a conventional obstacle, it raised delicate questions of compliance with the Constitution. It should be noted that the existing control mechanisms already allow warning of possible sectarian drifts and that it would be sufficient to be more effective in combating such drifts to strengthen controls, which the administration does not always manage to do. Therefore, the resources and resources allocated to the control of children in the EFI should be increased by training more inspectors or by developing a standard monitoring tool. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore inappropriate to impose rules on everyone because of the attitude of a minority – you have even described the cases of children exposed to radicalization as "exceptional". The drop-out rates, which are actually increasing sharply, are the result of radicalised people who oppose the rules of the Republic and not of parents who engage in caring education at home and in the family. Those who choose to educate their children at home out of personal conviction, not because they oppose the school of the Republic, must be able to exercise this right freely. That is why I call on the House to delete Rule 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u162	Amendment No 1159 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended. Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 1211.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u163	This article leads to the removal of parents from their responsibilities and hurts families who have chosen home education. The Government considers that their choice is not legitimate and challenges it as if it were not fair. If the number of children in IEF increases, it means that the school is being rejected, which is something to be questioned about. Why do some families run away from school? The reason is probably due to some neighbourhoods, but also to the fact that the school is not suitable for all children. She has shortcomings on which she has to work: unreplaced teachers, children squabbled from class to class, declining school level, violence, harassment. Yes, sometimes the school runs away and encounters difficulties in rural areas: when the village school has only one class for the five elementary levels – I mentioned this subject in questions to the Government – one prefers to do school at home, unless he puts his child in a private school, even if he takes an hour's drive. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] As for the children who receive the teaching of a rigorist Islam, remember that in 2015, the three children who refused to observe the minute of silence in tribute to the victims of Charlie Hebdo were children of my school, in class of CM1, minister: children of a school of the Republic! It is not among the children in IEF that you will necessarily find children exposed to the teaching of a rigidist Islam. To find them, you have to cross the intelligence files and not punish everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u164	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 1230.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u165	[[Applause on many benches in the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] I have listened to the various interventions that have taken place since the beginning of this debate on article 21 and I remain convinced that the solution advocated by the Government is not entirely the right one because it could cause many people to suffer. I'm not trying to be applauded, I'm just expressing my intimate feeling. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Why, simply in a few cases – as you yourself pointed out, Madam rapporteur – prohibit a fundamental freedom that does not threaten our Republic as a whole? Regrettably, controls must be strengthened, but they could help to combat radical Islamism. This struggle must be targeted, and all possible means must be devoted to it, but home-based education cannot under any circumstances be the collateral victim.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u166	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 1286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u167	In this bill, presented as a marker of the quinquennium, the link between family education and separatism is tenuous. For the laudable purpose of preserving children from fundamentalist discourse, article 21 undermines the freedom to educate with the family and equal opportunities become uniform. If the number of children educated in the family increases, it is more due to the reduction of compulsory education to three years than to a desire for separatism. There is clearly a lack of confidence on the part of the Government in the families on the grounds that some children frequent clandestine structures that you have difficulty identifying and counting, Minister. [[Patrick Hetzel applauds]] The measures provided for in Article 21 are neither relevant nor appropriate. There is no reason to believe that the State must be the sole guarantor of the best interests of the child, the very one behind which the majority is sheltered. We are well placed in Alsace to know that totalitarianism can unfortunately come from a state. The primary responsibility for the education of children lies with the parents. The licensing system is very restrictive, and any non-declaratory regime will plunge families into legal insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u168	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u169	The Government had sought to make public opinion believe that it had receded on that subject, but the text did provide for a prohibition of principle. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Charles de Courson and Mr Cédric Villani also applaud]] Colleagues, let us not leave to present and future generations, on the pretext of fighting radicalisation, any chance to develop their creativity and to flourish through family education. Let us not touch on the first paragraph of article L. 131-2 of the Education Code. Let us vote for these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u170	Amendments Nos 1287 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire and 1332 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart are defended. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1373.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u171	Minister, my department of Vaucluse has also experienced class closures, especially on the Sault plateau, isolated; In general, let me tell you, rural areas suffer from your reform of the school map. However, I wonder about the philosophy of Article 21. What is this logic that leads to punishing everyone because some of them are a problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u172	It's not punishment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u173	[[Approvals on several benches of the LR group]] It was this kind of reflection that led to the permanent abolition of the parliamentary reserve because some Members abused it, or to lower the maximum speed allowed to 80 km/h because of a few drivers. And it is this kind of philosophy that should lead, if we listened to you, to put the whole police under control because there are indelicate policemen, or to limit freedom of worship because of a few Salafist mosques. So what is this philosophy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u174	It's called the rules of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u175	...who is bringing lightning down on everyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u176	It's called living it together!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u177	You call it living it together? Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u178	Because you're ultraliberal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u179	On the contrary, it is in my view a pernicious logic which insidiously leads to the erosion of freedoms and to the taking of everyone at the front rather than to the attack on those who are undermining the foundations of our Republic. That is the subject we should be discussing today! But you have not given proof, Minister – and this is an understatement – that those who use EI are a danger to the Republic. Besides, what is the regulated freedom you are proposing? Freedom under prior authorization?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u180	They're illegals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u181	For every freedom, there is a law that sets a framework!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u182	Do you need permission to exercise your freedom of expression? Do we need one for the freedom to vote, the freedom to worship, the freedom to come and go? What is this under-freedom that you want to promote and which, in order to be exercised, must obtain the prior consent of the State? You have not been ruined to detect ex post facto those who use the IEF for Islamic indoctrination. And you want us to believe that you can now control them a priori? But at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u183	It's planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u184	Let's go back to reality. Let's go back to Victorien, who has problems with school phobia and whose parents came to see me explaining that they had chosen for him an education outside the school setting to enable him to develop;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u185	You have the phobia of public school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u186	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] ... in Anaïs, who has language problems; to Hugo, that the profession of parents prevents him from being educated in a normal setting. This is the real face of the IEF and these are the ones that will suffer in the future if we adopt your Article 21. Unfortunately, the school of the Republic can also serve as an incubator for Islamism;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u187	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u188	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...attack the real people in charge instead of looking for scapegoats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u189	Amendments Nos 1381 by Mr Michel Vialay, 1475 by Mrs Sandra Boëlle, 1598 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, 1640 by Mr Julien Dive and 1642 by Mr Nicolas Meizonnet were defended. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1651.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u190	We keep telling you: to abolish family education is a restriction of freedom without objective foundations, unconstitutional and contrary to fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u191	There is no question of deleting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u192	You haven't read the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u193	Inefficient and liberal, article 21 has absolutely no place in a law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Let us not make the exception rule, minister: the amalgam between family education and radicalism is totally unfounded. Rather, let us deal with the problem at the source: have the courage to work with the Minister of the Interior on concrete and effective proposals against radicalisation. Let's leave family education out of all this and delete section 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u194	Amendments Nos 1657 by Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara and 1661 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup are defended. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 1850.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u195	Minister, such a text produces an unfortunate mix of genres; It is not at all appropriate for the fight against separatism and we ask you to take it otherwise. We ask you to respect the parents' free choice regarding the education of their children, to strengthen controls and improve the training of those who control, to combat separatism by promoting social mixity – which you have been far from doing for four years – and above all to bring serenity to families living in atypical situations that are already well-tested by difficulties. For my part, in asking for the deletion of Article 21, I do not feel that I turn my back on the values of my party or betray my attachment to public school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u196	Amendments Nos 2056 by Mr Nicolas Forissier, 2067 by Mrs Anne-France Brunet, 2107 by Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux and 2109 by Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor are defended. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2119.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u197	With this amendment, I express my opposition to the introduction of a system of prior authorisation for parents wishing to educate their child with their family. However, as a defender of public school and school attendance from the age of three, I refuse to subscribe to the idea that family education is the root of separatism. If cases of radicalisation are reported, there is a need to strengthen controls, which are now too few in some parts of our territory. I also deplore the legal fragility of the scheme, particularly with regard to the fourth ground for allowing family education. The proposed wording is too imprecise and subjective; It leaves the door open for potentially arbitrary and discriminatory assessments. [[Exclaims on various benches]] Those are the reasons why I am asking for the deletion of this article. Does that make me a bad Republican and a bad Communist?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u198	[[Smile]] No doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u199	[[Smile]] It's a fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u200	This was not the case so far when I was in favour of home education. My reflection led me to ask, and that is my right, for the deletion of the article. Think of what you want, but I leave it to my party to appreciate my position or not. Moreover, does the Republic stop at the door of the school? It carries many values, including the respect and dignity of every human being, work for all, equal opportunities and health. Do the various bills or bills you are making respect these values? For example, do you respond to health problems?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u201	He's very good, this communist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u202	... especially because of the closure of beds in hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u203	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u204	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] I'm sorry, but that's also the Republic! You have your appreciation; As for me, I do not allow myself to judge you by distinguishing the good from the bad. I'm the way I am and I'll stay that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u205	Amendments Nos 2416 by Mr Jean-François Parigi and 2493 by Mr Cédric Villani are defended. Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 2521.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u206	This morning, Minister, you rejected an amendment by Agnes Thill to give section 1 of chapter V the title it would deserve, in order to reflect your desire to restrict the freedom of choice of education. Yes! By definition, replacing an authorization regime with a reporting regime is reducing the scope for choice. But you didn't want to take it, and I find it curious. Thus, not content with not being able to prove that the provisions of Article 21 would better combat Islamism – we will return to it – you do not assume that they amount to restricting freedom. It is true that even if you deployed treasures of jesitism, you would find it difficult to defend the idea that in order to carry out an activity, a statement is less permissive than an application for authorization. In fact, what bothers us is that, basically, Minister, you consider the state to be the only one who knows what is good for a child, the only one who can do his or her education. That is what comes out of your hearing in committee, and what brings you closer to the position of the rapporteur and even that of Mr Corbière: you think that only the state has enough lights to bring a child into adulthood and make it a good republican – a rather surprising reasoning on the part of someone who wants to be liberal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u208	I assume that this conviction, which I respect, preceded the speech delivered by the President of the Republic to the Walls from which she finally benefited. In order to do a com'blow and demonstrate a strong political will, the latter went so far as to say that he wanted to ban family education. Fortunately, the Council of State has stopped you in this momentum; But since then, you have been trying to mask this will with arguments that convince no one. For example, you tell us that a reporting regime is not enough to prevent drifts. Of course, these drifts exist, but you are unable to quantify them. In any case, they are far less numerous and progress less quickly than you claim. Finally, you chose to reverse the logic of freedom, which poses a philosophical problem to me. It seems to me, however, that freedom implies authorization to do what you want without even having to declare it. It was in order to avoid abuse of rights – in this case, the failure to educate the child, not to allow him to build himself in order to become a responsible adult – that a reporting regime was introduced that would then allow him to carry out checks. When it is suspected that abuses are widespread, one opts for an authorisation regime – that is what exists in many parts of French law. But in the case in which we are interested, subjecting the exercise of freedom to authorization is based on the principle that the majority of the French who claim it are inclined to abuse and distort it. I therefore do not understand this choice with regard to family education since, as your hearings and those of the representatives of the parents made clear, the slight increase in the number of worrying cases is due to the lack of checks. The rapporteur deplored the fact that they were often carried out only three or even six months after the declaration. But it is up to you to organize them earlier and more regularly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u209	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u210	... to detect cases in which abuse of rights ultimately harms the child. But no: instead of improving controls, you want to issue authorizations. What criteria will you base yourself on, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u211	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u212	The family name? His level of education? Its socio-economic level? His place of residence? What will allow your administration to determine if a family that first files a family education application is able to educate its child at home? In reality, you are opting for discrimination a priori rather than objective control a posteriori – which in itself is already a source of inequality. You did not propose any evaluation criteria, minister. It is not a question of evaluating a will, objectives, an educational project, but a capacity – which you can only see a posteriori. For ideological reasons, because you think the state should raise children, you have decided to make an a priori judgement, not based on any objective criteria. [[Laughs on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Let's go to the stats. The figure of 62,000 children – which you are advancing and which has been taken up by some colleagues – is false. Besides, it's not the one you gave a few months ago. It is true that in the meantime, in order to make a good measure, justify your ideological approach and scare, you have incorporated the students who follow the courses taught – for decades! – by the National Centre for Distance Learning, the CNED. Among the enemies of the Republic, were there many people who had benefited from this teaching? Even one of the most zealous parliamentarians pointed out to you this morning that at least these families should be exempted from applying for authorization: since CNED's teaching is by nature controlled, it is possible to identify possible malfunctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u213	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u214	Listen, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u215	The most beautiful thing is that you justify your approach by taking the pretext of some problematic cases found in non-contracted schools, therefore poorly supervised, which have no permission to ask and can open on simple declaration. The Republic would thus give more confidence to an out-of-contract school than to a family engaged in family education: the former would always be able to settle for a declaration, while the latter would now have to apply for a permit. For a few exceptions – rightly sanctioned by the closure of the school and the return of children to the schools of the Republic – you want to put an end to family education. It doesn't make sense. It would be better to monitor out-of-contract schools more than the few dozen cases of family education. You even get your feet in the carpet with regard to freedom of education. You told us that freedom of education at home was not "an essential freedom" – the Constitutional Council will judge it... That's what you said in committee, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u216	No, not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u217	It will be very easy to find your words. However, you will recognize that this freedom must be able to be exercised. However, while 30,000 families wish to enrol their children in a private school, you refuse to open a post. They no longer had the choice of schooling their children in a private school, and you now refuse to teach them at home. If you want to deny people the right to raise their children at home, at least you must guarantee them the right to attend a private school. Otherwise, it means that you have decided to impose public school on them. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] It turns out that in some territories of the Republic, parents may legitimately consider that the public school has shortcomings in terms of requirements, safety and pace of adaptation. You tell them: we will improve public school and, in the meantime, sacrifice your children. Understand that they are not prepared to accept this kind of reasoning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u218	Thank you, Mr. Lagarde.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u219	I'm not done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u220	Oh, forgive me! Please proceed, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u221	Out of a hundred people, Stalin preferred to lock up ninety-nine innocents rather than let a culprit run. On the other hand, democracy generally believes that it is better to let a culprit run than to lock up ninety-nine innocent people. I'm afraid you're inspired by the first reasoning about not 62000, but more likely 40,000 children involved in your bill: to do a simple communication exercise, you prefer to martyr families who have never posed a problem to the Republic and ignore that none of the terrorists who hit France went through family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u222	Exactly! Not one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u223	There's none, and you know it! This strategy is all the more regrettable because it does not allow effective action to be taken with respect to families that pose difficulties, even though it would be necessary. In the end, minister, it would have been much more reasonable – if not profitable in terms of political communication – to improve the checks on family education once the declaration had been made. The municipality should be able to ascertain at an early stage the material possibility of conducting this instruction. The National Education Inspector should visit families very regularly – and not after three or six months – and he should not miss a number of them. In case of doubt, difficulty or concern, controls should be much more frequent. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on many benches of the LR group. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] Those who engage in family education without causing difficulties to the Republic, their children or the general interest must be regularly monitored, but not harassed or even subjected to an arbitrary regime of authorization whose contours, criteria and reasons you are unable to define.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u224	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 2545.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u225	On the benches of oppositions and some benches of the majority, we have endeavoured to demonstrate that by defending freedom, we are in no way distrustful of national education and teachers. We have endeavoured to demonstrate that not all children were made to enter the same mould, that of national education. However, you are stubborn. Moreover, I do not see at all how this article reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, whereas, on the contrary, it infringes on one of them: the freedom of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u226	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u227	The fight against a marginal phenomenon leads you to deprive the French of a fundamental freedom. The same logic prompted you, in article 13 concerning the estate reserve, to upset all the rules of international successions in order to combat a very marginal phenomenon. In the macronian era, we find the same method for most bills: you are attacking a few symbols – I was going to say to a few totems of our positive law – in order to mask the weakness of texts that only push the doors open by the jurisprudence. Finally, Minister, I find it particularly unpleasant that you are giving all sorts of political lessons to all the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u228	We just got a few of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u229	Ball in the center!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u230	You are no longer the director of a headquarters where everyone has to carry out the orders you issue. You became a political leader – an elected one, I was going to say, but that's not even the case. A political leader works with democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] Suffer that in democracy there is an opposition that thinks differently from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u231	Amendment No 2598 by Mrs Michèle Tabarot is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on all these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u232	Many speakers referred to constitutionality and freedom of education in support of their request to delete article 21. For my part, I believe that the system adopted is legally sound, both in French law and in international law. Is the right of parents to use the education of children within the family an essential component or only a secondary element of our constitutional foundation? The Constitutional Council has never ruled on this issue. To date, the only components recognized as essential to the freedom of education are: the existence of private education; respect for the proper character of private institutions; the provision of public funding to these same schools. In 2006, the European Court of Human Rights held that neither article 2 of Additional Protocol No. 1 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms nor articles 28 and 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child precludes a State party from imposing schooling, which is within its discretion. In 2019, the European Court of Human Rights even went further in a judgement concerning parents who refused to comply with an obligation to attend school. In Europe, other states prohibit or restrict family education much more strongly than we propose to do, without having caused any difficulties with the European Union or the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u233	Remember the Nazi regime!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u234	In France, freedom of education is a freedom of choice between public school, private school under contract, private school without contract or family education. Let me tell you that there are constraints on all these types of instruction. You cannot enrol your child in any public school, for example, because there are school boundaries that can only be avoided by way of derogation. As for the right of parents, I understand that we can invoke it. We are working with a double requirement in mind: to guarantee the freedom of parents to choose their child's way of education; protect the child by, inter alia, ensuring that he or she enjoys the fundamental right to education. While the authorisation regime is more restrictive for parents, it is necessary to ensure upstream that this choice of education is in the best interests of the child and that it is based on a coherent and high-quality project. Some believe that our fundamental freedoms cannot be subject to authorisation. Yet there is one, the freedom to come and go, which may depend on obtaining a visa or a driver's licence. I come to the link between family education and separatism. Even if it is difficult to measure, it exists. Several checks...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u235	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u236	... have led to the transmission of reports motivated by inappropriate behaviour of parents or children. It should also be noted that during recent dismantlings of clandestine schools, it has been found that a number of children,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u237	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u238	That's not very specific!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u239	... participating in these de facto schools, were declared educated with the family, which must lead us to ask ourselves questions. In your defense of the status quo, you forget the proven facts that reveal the risk that some out-of-school children face in the face of sectarian drifts and radicalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u240	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u241	Not even ten!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u242	We must listen to the Inter-ministerial Mission of Vigilance and Combating Sectarian Deviations – MIVILUDES,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u243	Start by giving her the means she needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u244	... the Interministerial Committee for the Prevention of Delinquency and Radicalisation – CIPDR –, your mayors – those who carry out checks – or your academic director of the National Education Services – DASEN – for information on this subject. Finally, it should be noted that the de-schooling of a child is one of the clues whose beam leads to alerting, as it is shown that some out-of-school children are in danger of radicalization. Last point: we are not fighting only radical Islamism but all forms of separatism threatening our Republic. In family education, there are also cases of de-schooling related to sectarian control, withdrawal from society, indoctrination or a desire to provide exclusively religious education. While these cases are a minority, they cannot be forgotten, especially at a time when family education is progressing. In this regard, I would like to return to the data available to us. It's not because they don't match what you want that they don't exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u245	Give them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u246	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] For several years, we have seen a very strong increase in the number of children educated in the family for a variety of reasons, not all of which are due to the requirement to attend school at the age of three. [[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] In 2020, of the 45661 children outside the regulated CNED, there were 1,709 children between the ages of three and five and 28,652 children between the ages of six and sixteen. In 2018, there were 19,008 children in the latter category, which means that their number has increased by 50% in two years. This increase must be an issue for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u247	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u248	Let her speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u249	[[Smile]] That gives me time to take my breath, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u250	I wanted to go back to a few other arguments. Thus, it is argued that families that do not declare themselves today will not do so any more tomorrow. Colleagues, as Members of Parliament, we legislate every week, and yet some individuals, as we know, do not respect the law. Your reasoning would be to say that since some people allow themselves to burn the red lights, they should no longer be installed. For my part, red lights are necessary, for the same reason: to ensure the protection of everyone through the establishment of collective rules. You do not want prior authorization for family education and you propose, in your amendments, alternative solutions: family education made without delay, reinforced declaration, reasoned statement, declaration with right of opposition, semi-annual declaration, application for authorization valid for provisional authorization, application for authorization with supervision within three to six months, authorization given by the mayor, verification of non-religious education, municipal inquiry every three months, pedagogical check every three months, check on the capacity of integration into the child's social life, specific pedagogical check at each end of the cycle, switch from one to two annual pedagogical checks, impromptu and quarterly visits of the mayor... The administrative authorization established in Article 21 will always be followed by educational checks carried out by the national education system and those carried out by the mayor every two years. Let us work on prior authorization, improve it: it will make it possible to verify that the minimum conditions are met so that children entering family education can develop there and benefit from an education given to all children in France: the common foundation of skills, knowledge and culture. Finally, you accuse us of attacking family education without dealing with other subjects such as public school, private schools or ghost children. Forgive me, but that's not true...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u251	That's right, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u252	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will legislate on private schools, we have already done so on public school, we have dealt with ghost children and we will continue with the national student identifier and the cells to combat school dropout. We plan to work on all these subjects at the same time because they are not exclusive and we want all children in France to be properly educated, regardless of the way their parents choose their education. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and on several benches of the Dem Group as well as among several non-attached Members]] Unfavorable opinion on deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u253	I call Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u254	Each time, two rapporteurs speak out and both of them have a majority! It's starting to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u255	Mr. President Le Fur, I was particularly shocked by your comments a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u256	Oh, what a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u257	What blindness! To justify your desire not to reform family education, not to touch it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u258	Freedom is sacred!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u259	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... you accused the public school – I quote you – of being the one that causes terrorists. This is unacceptable! That's dishonest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u260	You caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u261	By attacking the school of the Republic, you want to justify, as you constantly do, the status quo and conservatism. The speeches that have taken place since this morning, in the context of the statements on the article and the deletion amendments, are abounding in contradictions. There are those who, in all intellectual dishonesty, continue to say that we would seek, through Article 21, to end family education. The minister and the rapporteur recalled the reality: they are lies, fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u262	Speak in French in the Chamber, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u263	The aim is to replace a declaration regime with an authorization regime, to reconcile the framework to be provided by the Republic with the freedom of education. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Some say that they want to retain family education for children with health problems or disabilities; But that will be the case! Some say they want to keep it in order to preserve high-level sports activities; That will be the case. Some say they want to keep it for children suffering from school phobia or school harassment; This will also be the case. In the framework of the special commission, we have reformed the fourth ground, adding an important element: it will be possible, in the best interests of the child – and not in the interests of the parents, because of their political, religious or philosophical convictions – to retain a particular instruction, following an educational project which the parents will have to expose to the academic authority. What is more normal than asking parents who wish to organize a family education to describe their educational project? What we are looking for is simple: to guarantee parents' freedom of choice, in a republican context, while guaranteeing the child's right to education, in the child's interest. Finally, I am not used to asking colleagues directly, but I would like to reply to Mr Julien Aubert, who was asking what our philosophy of action was. But what is yours, Members of the Republican Group?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u264	Freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u265	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] You demand the secularization of the whole society, the neutralization of all public spaces, the prohibition, in general and absolute, of the wearing of any religious sign; but with regard to separatism in the context of family education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u266	You caricature! You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u267	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] ...we should blind ourselves, refrain from acting, do nothing. Well, we refuse it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u268	The majority react well to lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u269	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u270	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The rapporteur-general – with a lot of quotes and even a hinter to "general" – quote me a terrorist who would have been educated as a family!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u271	It's not a personal fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u272	[[Applause on several benches of the LR and IDU-I groups. – Long exclamations and block taps on many benches of the LaREM group]] Our terrorists either come from abroad or, alas, have been trained in our public schools. It is unfortunate, but it is so, and it is a pure product of the public school that tells you. The question to be asked is: how, from school onwards, can this kind of threat be filtered?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u273	Where's the personal fact?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u274	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u275	I am pleased to speak after our rapporteurs. Without repeating what they have said, I would like to go back to some points, starting with the legal and constitutional dimension of the measure. First, to restore the truth, because lies have been uttered –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u276	You mean the rapporteur-general?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u277	... as you asked, I say in French because these lies were made in French – it is perfectly wrong to say that we question the freedom of education, either in principle or in its modalities. We said, from end to end, exactly the opposite! What is the status and content of freedom of education – Mr. Patrick Hetzel was kind enough to recognize me as a competence in this area? As the rapporteur has pointed out, there is a case law of the Constitutional Council which, in 1977, will seek in a 1930 finance law a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic, freedom of education, to recognize two dimensions: the freedom to establish an educational institution and the freedom for the family to choose one. In doing so, does the Constitutional Council mean that this freedom is unlimited? Of course not: as soon as he establishes it, he sets borders. It's normal, it's true for all freedom. I gave you the example of the freedom of property rights, but there are many others, such as the freedom to travel by car, which limits the road code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u278	There's no need for permission to move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u279	To say that definitions of freedom are a restriction is an error of reasoning. On the contrary, through what we do, the freedom of education will be more precise, and therefore more consecrated. To date, there has been no constitutional definition of family education. When he does this work, the constitutional judge will look at what happened from the beginning of the debate, including in the discussions of the 1880s on compulsory education, and will find that family education was then little sacralized by the legislator. He will deduce what he wants, but it is obvious that family education must have a framework. No one on these benches claims otherwise. It is this framework that we are in the process of clarifying in the light of developments in society. This has changed for a century and a half, and especially in recent decades, marked by the emergence of the phenomenon of radical Islamism that you are normally supposed not to underestimate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Some children, officially in family education, are in fact elsewhere. This phenomenon does exist, and no one can deny it. One of the most beautiful phrases spoken today belongs to Mr Michel Castellani: even if it concerned only one child, it should concern us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u280	Bravo! Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u281	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It's obvious! Some of you have gone back to the problems of encryption, but these are precisely due to the fact that the phenomenon is not sufficiently framed. Besides, even if only one child was involved, we should protect him. However, in some interventions, it seemed to me that an elector was sometimes more important than a child! It is with great respect that we have heard each of the voices opposing this project, in the Chamber, but also in French society. The Government respects and has listened to families who have so far chosen family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u282	Prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u283	A lot of changes have been made to the text to reflect the fact that family education is going well in a large number of cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u284	Blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u285	I would like to reassure Mr Cédric Villani: yes, new Marie Curie will always be able to emerge thanks to this mode of education. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The problem does not concern Marie Curie, but these little girls who are sent to hangars to be indoctrinated from the age of three. Is that what we want, Mr. Villani?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u286	Unbelievable! Close the hangars! Move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u287	Or would you deny this problem? Rather than denying it, we must target it. Mr. Francis Chouat has clearly shown in his speech that it is in places where there is the most radical Islamism that family education develops the most; So the problem is real, even if some are trying to deny it. I ask the majority to take into account the fact that the views of the supporters of family education have been taken into account; I ask the opposition, who criticized me earlier, to make political history, to be consistent with their ideas – but the decision is a matter for everyone's free will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u288	You can't give orders to Parliament! What about the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u289	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] I ask all those who listen to us beyond this Chamber to see that not only do we support freedom, that of education, but we also support the Republic and the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u290	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u291	The meeting was resumed. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u292	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Since the beginning of the legislature, these discussions give rise to a real lesson of things highlighting both the contradictions of the majority and the way in which it has set the table to allow the right to engage in a real reactionary auction...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u293	From him, it's a compliment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u294	It's better to be reactionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u295	... whether it is secularism – which should at times only apply to one religion – or public school, which, if I understood some of the interventions correctly, would almost be the matrix of terrorism. For our part, we are talking. We believe that the education and education of a child is done in the family and in school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u296	And LFI!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u297	Because the school has never occupied a child's entire schedule, families inevitably have an influence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u298	If it's to hear that, you might as well go to the vote right away!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u299	However, we believe that the child must be given the means to emancipate himself from any community and family environment in order to become a future young citizen, his or her training as a citizen alongside other children enabling him or her to become a social being. That's what governs our principles. If this had been the case for the Government, we would be presented with a major reform, which would include, in addition to the question of family education, provisions encouraging parents to put their children more in school, beginning with the abolition of non-contracted schools, which are hardly mentioned in the draft law, the increase in the control of contractual schools and the deployment of great efforts to make the public school truly attractive again. This is not the case, because in his speech of October 2, Emmanuel Macron saw in the family education and the existence of children not enrolled in school evidence of the alleged influence of Islamist separatism on society. From then on, the right has obviously a good game of saying that the majority is wrongly targeted, that it had not announced this. By the way, it repeats our arguments, and it is rather curious since it referred to us as Islamo-leftists when my colleague Corbière and I allowed us to say that in Seine-Saint-Denis, we did not see as many Koranic schools or uneducated children as we claimed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u300	Time to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u301	I am pleased to note that today, suddenly, the right one discovers that, in the end, it is not the presumed hydra. Where are we now? As you can see that you've had the wrong targets – that in reality, family education also involves other religions, but also parents who advocate other teaching methods or families who, for sociological reasons that I tend to resent, want to avoid school attendance in public schools for their children – you've started to water down your bill. You have started by introducing a fourth reason for accepting family education, which is very broad in scope, which will eventually allow any family that wishes to educate its child at home, and you are about to adopt an amendment postponing the entry into force of the provisions of this article until the beginning of 2024. The result is a very timid reform – the least we can say – highlighting your contradictions. For our part, we believe that we must guarantee at least two checks a year to verify the conditions under which children unfortunately placed outside school – a situation which we also regret – receive education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u302	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u303	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We discussed and exchanged; It's normal, it's parliamentary debate. While on both sides some have shown sincerity – and I deeply respect their opinions – there are also those who, on some benches, seek to make politics a year before 2022. It is clear that some people are starting very clearly to stand up against everything the Government is doing, even though they may find it desirable to act to protect our children from certain abuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u304	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u305	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is a reality: if they were themselves responsible, they would hold the opposite speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u306	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Secondly, the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports has been attacked and I would not like to defend him – he knows very well how to do it himself – but to support him. Because we can only support a minister who, like him, has been defending the principle of secularism since 2017...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u308	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u309	... and promotes equal opportunities by doubling classrooms in priority education networks and giving more to children who initially have less social and cultural capital. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Similarly, when a minister of national education revitalizes the teaching profession and continues to work to improve careers and pay conditions, he must be supported. [[Mr Julien Aubert protested]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] When a minister defends freedom of education and freedom of education in the family, but wishes to establish a prior authorization, he must be supported. The Republic needs a Minister of National Education who knows these fundamentals, equal opportunities and secularism. Thirdly, some are trying to cause confusion by pretending that our will is to ban family education. That's not the case! Words make sense. The terms "prior authorization" mean that the freedom of family education is not only confirmed but, let us say, protected to the parents concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u310	There are fayots in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u311	There is no freedom that is not regulated. That is how we will advance and protect the parents who, so far, have educated their children in families without too much difficulty. This a priori control will also make it more effective. Let the families who listen to us be reassured, as long as they respect the fundamental republican elements of the transmission of knowledge and education, they will not be weakened but, on the contrary, protected. On the other hand, families that circumvent the law in the name of separatist logic may fear our action. We will enshrine in the law certain safeguards in order to put an end to this very dangerous drift in our society. Evil has been appointed by the Minister of National Education: it is those who claim to be radical political Islamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u312	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u313	[[Mrs Anne-Laure Blin protested]] I would add that, when we legislate, we must have a sense of the general interest. However, as the minister has said, the general interest is not the addition of particular interests. Determining it involves having a certain vision of society, in order to provide concrete and precise answers to real problems. In this regard, let those who buried Jean-Pierre Obin's report in 2004 be aware of his book of September 2020! Let them read it and understand the situation in our territories and the phenomena of enterrism and separatism that take place there, particularly the fruits of radical Islamism. You have to name things and be lucid to make the law. We are lucid in supporting the action of the Minister of National Education. [[Smile on the benches of the group Acte ens. – Protests on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Fourthly, I wish to point out a contradiction. We cannot at the same time want to delete this article and to table amendments with a view to improving the devices it contains. That's what some people do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u314	Do you know any of the back-up amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u315	Colleagues, suffer from listening to me. I have listened to you in silence and I fully respect your position. I just want to expose mine. Some colleagues will introduce amendments to make it possible for parents to allow their child to be educated with their family to have mastery of the French language. It seems to me important that we vote for such an amendment, but how can this kind of improvement in family education be achieved if the article is deleted? I repeat, I see here a major contradiction...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u316	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u317	... and I therefore call for rejection of these deletion amendments. We need article 21 to advance, protect children and protect the freedom of families who wish to educate their children with their families, in accordance with the rules. Our goal is to remove separatism from family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u318	Now we're in agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u319	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Christophe Euzet also applauds]] Although this phenomenon is marginal, it exists and increases. If we do not act today, it will grow tomorrow. So everyone has to shoulder their responsibilities in the face of history. For my part, I will not vote for these amendments to delete Article 21, which I strongly support, just as I support the Minister of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u320	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u321	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u322	From my modest position, I wish to make a solemn appeal to the members of the majority – or its borders – who would have the hand that trembles when facing the upcoming public vote. I want to reassure them, tell them not to worry and call them to look at things objectively. Of course, the right to education at home is a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u323	Sometimes we doubt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u324	[[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] But there are others, such as the right to property, which is enshrined in article 17 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. If I become the owner of a land, at the time I want to build the family home, I will be obliged to first apply for a building permit. Indeed, there are rules in society that make it impossible for everyone to do everything as he or she pleases. To live together, we must accept a number of sacrifices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u325	Education and urban planning are therefore of the same nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u326	That is why introducing a prior authorization for family education does not seem to me to represent a revolution, but a simple new application of something already widespread in our positive law. On the other hand, I admit that I am a little embarrassed, because I have the impression that we sometimes completely lose sight of the objective of the text. It is about young people – some of whom are out of school – inserted into a framework of thought that must lead them to split with the model in which we live, or even to be hostile to it. We are told that we cannot give a single example of this phenomenon. However, I have a historical memory that moves my heart when I talk about it. This is a speech by Gamal Abdel Nasser, delivered in 1954 – I assure you, I did not attend, I simply saw the images. In front of a congress, he explains laughing that the Muslim Brotherhood would be about to make Egyptian women veil, but that he sees none in the room with covered hair. More than fifty years later, I think he would have approached the subject with great consideration, caution and, certainly, concern. With regard to the grounds for home education – the third element I wanted to mention – let's discuss the essentials! Whether it is the practice of sport under special conditions, a situation of disability or the homelessness of parents, we see very well what these grounds cover. The last case is the existence of "a situation specific to the child motivating the educational project". If we have to debate, let us debate this! Let us discuss the conditions for the recognition of a particular situation: they are such as to reassure the parents carrying a specific project for their child. Finally, some felt that the lack of objectivity of the proposed criteria would expose families to a right of varying geometry. To say that is to ignore our judicial system! Administrative courts belong to a hierarchy, at the top of which, everyone knows, is the Council of State. The Court would not fail to harmonize case law if it became contradictory. So this is a false trial. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To those who may be reluctant to reject these deletion amendments, I urge them to reassure themselves and not be fooled by what is happening. You have, ladies and gentlemen, monopolized four or five hours of debate on this issue alone. In essence, it is a question of whether your objective was not to exhaust your speaking time in order to mask your general support for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u327	Mr Bruno Bonnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u328	Beyond the political communication jousts, in which all groups engage and in which everyone wants to be more secular than secular, it should be recalled that we are also addressing families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u329	He's a candidate in the election!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u330	Our debates are intense, so I want to send them a very simple message: by voting on this article, we do not prohibit family education. This message must be repeated, because we must anticipate the comments that will be made following the adoption of the article. We do not prohibit family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u331	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u332	On the contrary, through prior authorization, we give a guarantee of trust to families choosing a different method of education. We invite them to explain the reasons for this choice by ensuring that attention is paid to it. It should be noted that this does not exclude control procedures, which we all consider essential. But for families, the first step is to come and present their project. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Patrick Mignola also applauds]] Finally, I heard it and it shocked me, national education is not a mould. It is a model of republican equality, a profession to weave the Republic. Our obsession must be to continue to see public school as a privilege, a luxury, that of being able to educate our children. And even if family education is to be respected, we cannot accuse national education, as I have heard, of creating terrorists and criminals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u333	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u334	Dear Republican colleagues – of all kinds, of course – I hear a lot about freedom, in the case of freedom of education, a principle on which the rapporteur and the minister have spoken perfectly. On the other hand, I hear little talk about the no less republican principles of equality and fraternity, which are essential to combat any form of separatism and which the public school should strive to make effective. That, in our view, is where the objective limits of this article lie. I will not say any more because of the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u335	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u336	I thank colleagues who have clearly explained our intentions to the families. All of us here have met with families who have made a different choice from that of the Republic School.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u337	Stop bothering them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u338	They will continue to enjoy this freedom, but in a framed way, because our intention is to protect children's freedom. Indeed, when we talk about freedom, I think it is important to talk about children's freedom as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u339	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u340	I wanted to intervene, because I confess to being very astonished at each other's postures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u341	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u342	She knows something about the postures, Mrs. Bergé!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u343	You, too, have denied yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u344	In this regard, article 21 is probably the best revealing. I am surprised that the left has definitely abandoned its fight for free, secular and compulsory school. I regret that, because I believe that this fight should have been shared by all of us on our benches. You have gradually abandoned it and you will demonstrate it by voting on these deletion amendments. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] As far as you are concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the right-wing part of the House, it happens that we have had points of agreement on this text and that, contrary to the Government's opinion, we have even been able to have similar votes. However, you are completely inconsistent,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u345	She's an expert talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u346	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... because you cannot plead for the freedom and protection of children on certain subjects and, on others, prefer to ignore it by electoral clientelism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, please let Mrs Bergé speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u348	[[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] The best protection for children is the school of the Republic! The best answer we can and must give is the school of the Republic! [[Same movements]] I repeat, if you want to fight Islamic separatism, you cannot do so on certain subjects and not on others. You cannot take a powerful and symbolic position on certain points and forget to take your responsibilities when you are asked whether you believe in the school of the Republic and secularism, which guarantees the expression of our republican principles. I am pleased that we have a public vote on these deletion amendments, because I believe that it will allow us to identify those who are naive and guilty of complacency and those who display without assuming their responsibilities at a time when we can reaffirm our principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u349	Sectarianism! We have the right to have opinions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u350	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As far as I am concerned, I, like many other Members, will not vote for these amendments. We believe in secularism and believe in school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u351	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u352	Both sides have heard arguments that are sometimes important, sometimes more questionable. I do not know whether our colleague Bruneel is a good communist; I am not in a position to answer such a question. In any case, we have received quite impressive dialectic lessons. The contradictions have been dealt with with with great skill, in particular on one side of the House which had not been used to it. Unfortunately, on the left, on the ideological level, there is a shipwreck. Honestly, I've heard wonderful things! I've heard a systematic defense of public school, an attachment, a love. But I have also heard that establishing a prior authorization for family education would, in some territories, deprive families of their only opportunity to escape the sacrifice of sending children to public school. Is that our love of public school?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u353	Depends on which one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u354	No! You can't say one thing and the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u355	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u356	When it comes to caricature, I think I have more lessons to take. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I also heard completely wrong things. I heard that a company based on authorizations would be an almost totalitarian company. I heard that we should not be mistargeted and focus our action on a certain part of the population. Associated, when one is in search of an inner enemy, with the stigmatization of some people, this libertarianism – which should not be confused with liberalism – recalls things that have happened on the other side of the Atlantic. All in all, therefore, the Republican Party appears to be more and more similar to the American Republican Party. He finds in caricature, denial and lie the resolution of his own contradictions. [[Long exclamations on the same benches]] Our system is satisfactory for many families, but you agree yourself, everyone agrees that sometimes families withdraw their children from the school of the Republic simply because they want to get out of Republican society. That is the problem we are trying to solve! [[Boarding exclamations and taps several benches in the LR group]] When a system is generally satisfactory but has so many dead angles, and it does not work for certain families, then yes, it must be reformed, and that is the meaning of the authorisation regime proposed in Article 21. Its content is evolving, that is the very purpose of the parliamentary debate: it has evolved into a committee, and everyone has welcomed it; It will continue to evolve today, because we are seeking to have a few thousand families in our sights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u357	And how do you find them, according to what criteria? They're bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u358	Because yes, a few thousand families, it's serious! This is serious for these children, who have the right to remain in the Republic. The system we are going to introduce will allow them, without bothering other families beyond any measure. That's the reality! If a child can be saved thanks to the IEF, of course there will be right! There will be a right in case of school phobia, in case of health problems, disability, remoteness... Who's calling this into question? When you say that we are seeking the prohibition of the IEF, it is only a lie that you profess, an obvious untruth. We want to build a balanced system that will fight separatism while allowing families in the nails to continue to be so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u359	It's a gas factory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u360	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We will of course vote against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u361	It's not obvious to everyone, obviously!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u362	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u363	First question: if there are families that hijack the IEF for the benefit of Islamic fundamentalism, does national education, in the current state of law, have any legal means to detect them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u364	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u365	Indeed, the answer is yes. Second question: how is it that the inspections of the academy inspectors do not detect them? The answer is simple, Mr Minister, if we read the report of your hearing in a special committee: we only carry out about three quarters of the annual checks on average – we do not have the statistics by department, and I am very afraid that in some of them we are far below that figure. Third question: no one, Minister, said that Article 21 would be contrary to France's international commitments. He's not. On the other hand, you do not refer to the jurisprudence of the 2017 Council of State, which is very recent, according to which the IEF is one of the forms of freedom of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u366	We missed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u367	It's a decision of the Council of State! You'll tell me it's only the Council of State...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u368	It's not a decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u369	While it is true that the Constitutional Council did not pronounce itself, it must be remembered that in 1977 it recognized the freedom of choice of families between public education and private teaching, whether under contract or out of contract, as a fundamental principle! I do not see the Constitutional Council applying its own jurisprudence with regard to the EFI. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Question 4: How do you explain that you want to apply for prior authorization for families who want to use the EFI, but not for those who want to register their child in a private institution? It's completely incoherent! Finally, the last thought, which seems to me the most serious: Article 21 divides national representation, but beyond that, it divides public opinion, very attached to the freedom of education...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u370	We're not in 1984 anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u371	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ... while everyone could agree on the objective of combating Islamic fundamentalism. Ladies and gentlemen, what a sad result!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u372	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u373	I am quite surprised by the debates that have been taking place in this House since this morning. I am surprised that some people are surprised, in a text reaffirming the values of the Republic, by the presence of an article that reaffirms the primacy of the school of the Republic over all other forms of education. That seems quite logical to me. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I am not surprised by the position of the right, quite consistent with its ideology, which is not mine: dear colleagues on the right, you are in favour of families having the financial means to choose family education or private denominational schools; This corresponds to your vision of secularism with variable geometry, depending on the religion concerned. If there is a separatism that does not pose any problem to you, it is social separatism, depending on the financial means!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u374	Listen to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u375	And you only like the difference when it is not too different from what you consider to be the norm. But I am much more surprised by the positioning of a part of the left, which seems to have lost its republican compass. Where are the black hussards of the Republic? Where are the heirs of Jean Jaurès and Jules Ferry? If I'm lucky enough to talk to you today, it's largely thanks to the Republican school. Coming from a modest background, like President Chassaigne who spoke this morning, the unique, rural class, where I was able to meet children of all conditions and with very different learning abilities, taught me tolerance and mutual help; She also gave me the same chance as a child from a more favoured environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u376	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u377	Let the left explain to us that she sees no problem when families with financial and intellectual resources take their children out of the school of the Republic and thus harm the cultural and social mix me! "The school is the cradle of the Republic": this sentence is not mine, but Lionel Jospin's in his general policy speech, delivered at this rostrum in 1997. Some of you seem to have forgotten it! Of course, like all of you, I have received families who have made the choice of school with family, for good reasons – school phobia, harassment. The text as it is written today establishes a system of authorization and does not prohibit family education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u378	How do you know? You're not the one who will investigate the applications!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u379	None of the parents I received will be banned from family education, since all of them were subject to one of the criteria mentioned in the bill. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On this text, I have, as you know, had some different positions from the majority of the Republic Group on the move. But I have walked, so that we can all find ourselves on essential provisions for our nation and for our country. Let us collectively acknowledge the work of our excellent Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, and the members of the majority. He has listened to our ups and downs, and we must welcome it. Together, we have improved this text; All together, let us vote against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u380	He wants to become Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u381	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u382	I was a teacher in REP – a priority education network – for seventeen years and your comments about the public school terrorists and not the IEF, Mr. Le Fur, are hurting. You're creating an unhealthy suspicion and shortcuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u383	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u384	I would like to give you a witness. I contacted the three Asnières and Colombes in my constituency. The first one says to me: "I was an inspector in Boulogne until June 2019. I was visiting five families on average. Children in these families had a high level of sports or cultural activity. The vast majority of these families received approval. In Colombes, the situation is very different. For the year 2019-2020, I visited twelve families; four received an unfavorable notice. They were families from radical Islamism, for the vast majority. » [[Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] The three proponents confirm that this phenomenon is growing. Six years ago, four families were visited; Now it's between twelve and fifteen. Fifty received an unfavorable opinion. All three confirm that these children receive very poor education, with few books, few exits. The children are pale, coming from large families who live in a small space. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] For all these reasons, and in order to respect the best interests of the child, I shall vote against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u385	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u386	I have remained relatively silent so far, but I hear the lessons of virtue, of republic, of secularism that one would like to do to the left. The charter of secularism? We signed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u387	That was great!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u388	Moral and civic education? It was we who restored it. The great mobilization of the school for the values of the Republic? We launched it. Strengthening the initial and in-service training of teachers in the values of the Republic and secularism? We're the ones who promoted her. The revival of the day of secularism? It's us again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u389	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u390	Some buy themselves a virtue for cheap, multiply the handle effects, gargarize themselves with their words in a swollen tone that does not deceive anyone. This little law is the conquest of the moon in Punto, nothing more: we will not live together better tomorrow than today. The gaps are acute, particularly with regard to school and social mix. We will talk about this later, and you will probably reject most of the amendments tabled on this subject, including by Members of your ranks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u391	We're talking about family education!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u392	The only important issue is the protection of children. Will the measure you are proposing be effective in this regard? I ask you two questions, which I have already asked in committee but which have not received any answer: can we circumvent the lack of authorisation by following the courses issued by a foreign country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u393	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u394	If it was a question of bringing children back to the school of the Republic, secular and free of charge, it was agreed, but it would also be necessary for non-contracted schools to be subject to a system of authorization. But that will not be the case. How are you going to bring these kids back?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u395	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u396	These are real questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u397	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] The question, again, is efficiency. Shouldn't it have been necessary to strengthen the controls, to be able to go to children, to families, to see what's going on there? Unfortunately, like many of your measurements, this one is partial, insufficient. We are no less concerned about the children, and especially those, whose realities we know – because strengthening control, too, has been done by us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u398	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u399	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] I sometimes wonder what we're talking about in this Chamber... Having left the IEF, we come to a debate that is rather idle to know who defends, or not, the public school. If the question, really, is this one, it is very interesting, but let's go to the end: are you ready to put under surveillance, as Boris Vallaud has just proposed, the out-of-contract schools? Are you for a public service, secular and unified? We would have a wonderful debate here! It has already taken place in 1984, and it has been decided by history – but perhaps you want to come back to it. Let's get back to it, if that's what works for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u400	We can have this talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u401	The problem here is that you want to put on clothes that are not yours, and that you are looking for a decision that is not up to it! The subject, as you yourself have said enough, is Islamic separatism. It is from this perspective that article 21 should be examined:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u402	In particular, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u403	...will it allow us to fight radical Islam? That is the test of judgment that we apply. If we believe that he will achieve this goal, then let us say bravo and vote on it; But you are now telling us that you have understood well that it is impossible to ban home education, and that it is necessary to broaden the criteria. The bill mentions four criteria: the first three – state of health or disability, intensive sports or artistic activity, family homelessness – are quite specific; But let us look at the fourth, "the existence of a situation specific to the child motivating the educational project". There's nothing more vague! What's the family that can't claim it? Since everyone can be allowed on the basis of this criterion, what will be the unwritten criterion? Because it will take one...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u404	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u405	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... when you meet in front of 50,000 people who will say: "Next year" – or rather in 2024, now – "we will want to benefit from the home education system. » What criterion will you use? The origin? Religion, real or supposed? These are all the problems you're going to raise. How are you going to check it out? Since we are all specialists in radical Islamism since we made it the main part of the political debate in our country, I have discovered, like all of you, what the taqiya was, that is, the art of concealment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u406	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u407	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Do you believe that a radicalized family will say to the inspection, "We are a radicalized family, and that is why we want to exclude our children from public school"? None of them will, of course, and you will end up with holes in the colander. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [["Of course! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Because you will have given them prior authorization, you will feel protected and you will not make the efforts you should make – which, as you know very well, relate to post-control. This effort, you don't, and that's where your guilt is. If you want to move forward, strengthen post-control on the basis of the actual teachings of parents. There, then, we will agree! We all have the will to defeat radical Islamism because, all of us, we want to end this plague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u408	You never agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u409	[[Applause on the SOC and IUD-I benches]] That's what we can agree on. You don't have to make communication laws. Make useful laws, effective laws, that's all you're asked to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u410	Jaures!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u411	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u412	I am speaking in turn after speaking on the subject in a fairly clear way in the special committee. I have not spoken in the Chamber, but I am doing so here in reaction to some grandiose speeches, aimed at giving lessons, which are not welcome in a rather good debate. First of all, I said it and I repeat it, because it is one of the fundamentals of my political commitment: as far as I am concerned, I am not for compulsory education, but for compulsory schooling. If some, on the benches of the House, want to propose a law to make secular school, public and compulsory in our country, I am available to write it with all those who want to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u413	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u414	But, so far, I note that the Government's school policies do not go in this direction. So, please: handle effects, a little, but don't exaggerate! Otherwise, my office is open to draft a bill for a public, secular and compulsory school and a large public service of national education. [[Mrs Sabine Rubin and Mrs Agnes Thill applaud]] [[Mrs. Sabine Rubin applauds. – Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Olivier Faure and Agnès Thill also applaud]] Second, often what happens in Seine-Saint-Denis happens, five or ten years later, in the rest of the country; We are by certain aspects, for the better, but also for the worse, precursors. However, in my department – I'm just taking back what is in the report of my colleagues Mr Cornut-Gentille and Mr Kokouendo – a child, between the sixth and third, in Seine-Saint-Denis and nowhere else in France, lives the equivalent of a full school year without teaching in front of him in the class, because there are no substitutes. In schools there are teachers recruited from Pôle Emploi who arrive in front of the classes without any training to try to remedy this deficiency. In my city, for the past year, parents of students have been making a chain every morning in front of a school so that dealers do not enter and there is no one to help them in the public authorities, in the hierarchy of national education or in the police. I tell you as I live, and with more pain than you can imagine. Many cited their personal cases. I will also quote mine by speaking not as a former student of the public school, which I am, but as a parent of students of the public school of Saint-Denis, which I am also: never, as far as I am concerned, have I avoided school, never have I taken my children out of their area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u415	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u416	Yes, respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u417	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and FI groups]] But I also note that, when it was necessary to plan their entry into college, three-quarters of the parents of pupils in their grade 2 class put their children either at public school, but elsewhere, or at private school, or at home. This is also the reality of the school in Seine-Saint-Denis! The state of the public school in Seine-Saint-Denis – and this is probably true elsewhere – does much more for the discredit of the school than the separatist discourses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u418	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u419	[[Ms Sabine Rubin and Mr Jean-Louis Bricout applaud]] [[Applause on the SOC, IUD-I and FI benches]] It's a reality. You can't not hear it, if you want to be consistent. That is the great criticism I have been making of this bill from the very beginning. Unlike all those, beginning with the great Jaurès, who explained to us that, for the Republic to remain secular, it must remain social, you have dissociated the two terms. This bill is the perfect example: it has no social component, does nothing for social mix, does nothing against urban apartheid, does nothing against territorial segregation. It is a completely banal law, and this inconvenient character is sadly revealed in the debate we have about home school. I inquired a lot about the prefect, DASEN – the academic director of the national education services – and about teachers and parents' associations of students who are teaching at home. I am committed to my principles and will never be sensitive to lobbyism. But, frankly, what is the situation in Seine-Saint-Denis? 2000 pupils follow a family education: 1000 of them do so with the CNED, most of them on the basis of the criteria set out in article 21; the other 1000 do so on a simple declaratory basis. They are subject, every year, to an inspection and, since the Gatel Act, to the same end-of-cycle evaluations as school children. But the big problem is that, according to the Cornut-Gentille-Kokouendo report, in this department, the INSEE does not know, to the nearest 300,000 people, how many people there are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u420	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u421	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] 300,000 is not the thickness of the line: there are 1.6 million inhabitants in Seine-Saint-Denis! They don't know, up to 300,000, how many there are! All the senior national education officials in the department tell me that the big problem related to separatism is not family education – I will not vote for the deletion amendments – but all the students who are off radar,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u422	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u423	...all those who are somewhere, but we don't know where, and we can't know where because we don't even know how many people there are in the department! The problem is when you have such a weakened Republic, such poor public services and a school that is not at the rendezvous of the Republican promise. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, PS, IUD-I, FI groups, and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Marc Le Fur also applauds]] I say this as an elected member of a popular department: there is not a social category that puts more hope in the school of the Republic than the disadvantaged people, because it is their only perspective, the only means within their reach to raise their child and try to chart a more dignified path for him. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u424	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u425	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, IDU and FI groups]] Don't make this article say what it doesn't say. Frankly, it's a rabbit fart, it's nothing! Your law is out of order and your article is nothing at all. So don't make him say what he's not saying, don't give us lessons and come write with us a great law for a secular, public and compulsory school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u426	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u427	Political history is made up of ambitions and, sometimes, of renunciations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u428	And betrayals, sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u429	Ambitions, dear Olivier Faure, when, among the 110 proposals that led François Mitterrand to win the 1981 presidential election, there was the great public service, secular and unified of national education. There were some resignations in 1984, but I know that the party you are chairing has never given up the ambition of the school, particularly that which Lionel Jospin defended when he recalled that the school was the cradle of the Republic. That is what we are talking about. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There are only men and women here who are convinced of the issue of education. The fight we must wage in education requires concrete action, and we can salute the commitment of Jean-Michel Blanquer to his service. The Minister of National Education, who this year presented a budget for 2000 additional jobs in the first degree, can be commended; which provides for the final phase of upgrading an inclusive school with the creation of 4000 new AESH jobs – accompanying students with disabilities –; which provides for 400 million euros of salary revalorisation for teachers; which provides that everywhere in France, Mr.Peu, we are working together to achieve the ambition of doubling the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP+, because we know how important the school is, essential even, especially in the most difficult neighbourhoods, and you rightly recalled it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u430	All words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u431	[[Exclaims and applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Prolonged Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the requirement we all have for school is the one we translate into Article 24 – I mean Article 21. Article 21 is not intended to penalize families and their children. It aims to protect the best interests of the child and, in particular, his or her right to education. This one – I am speaking here to the Republican Members – must obviously combine with the guarantee of respect for the constitutional freedom of choice of school. I heard a lot of inepties today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u432	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u433	I heard that control would violate freedoms. It's a subject we could talk about between lawyers; It is also a subject we can talk about, Mr Aubert, in the Chamber. To what extent would the desire to set up controls to guarantee the fundamental freedom to learn violate freedom? What intellectual and political contradictions at the same time! (Mr Julien Aubert protested. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM and DEM groups.) It is the very abdication – Mr Member, it is not necessary to shout – of the parliamentary and legislative function to think that control would wait for the fundamental freedoms that we must defend here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u434	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u435	I also heard that, in the end, it would concern few people. Not many people! I turn here to the MP Little because I know his fight in his department: I have the memory of this school in Aulnay-sous-Bois that I closed, as Minister of the Interior, in February 2020. There were about 50 children between the ages of three and six, almost all girls, who were forced to wear burqa.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u436	All right! Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u437	I also remember a more recent news, when Gérald Darmanin, in October 2020, closed a school in Bobigny, which was home to nearly eighty children, mostly young women. I tell you, these schools were not only outlawed, they were outside the Republic. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] What we have to do is fight at every moment so that the fundamental right to learn, to emancipate, to build, is not forbidden to these young people, to these young children, to these young girls in particular. Because that's what we're talking about: those moments when parents, in the name of freedom of choice, decide to ban their daughter from any personal construction, where they forbid her emancipation, where they forbid her to learn. On this fight, we should all be mobilized together. Even if there was only one girl involved in rejecting republican principles, we should all arm ourselves together to fight her parents, who commit a crime against their own child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u438	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u439	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u440	We all need to be very cautious when we touch upon a fundamental freedom defended by the Constitution, even if we all obviously pursue the same objective of combating radicalisation. I am very attached to the school of the Republic. When I began to receive families involved in family education, I was rather reserved in relation to this model that I did not know – unfortunately, we too often judge things from what we know directly. But I tried to rise above my prejudices and understand them. However, in listening to the majority's comments on this article, I am concerned, because I see that its objective is not so much to combat radicalisation effectively, as Mr President-in-Office has pointed out. Faure and Vallaud, that to assert the superiority of one model over another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u441	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u442	Mr Castaner, that is exactly the content of the beginning of your speech and that of Mr Moreau. That's what bothers me. If this training model really were inferior, it should not have been made possible! And I say that even though I felt at the beginning of the reservations towards it. We propose to change the method, so as not to penalise the vast majority of honest families who have chosen family education, while meeting our common objective – better fight against community education practices that are contrary to the fundamental values of our republic. Mr Castaner, as you said, you can already close schools. Rather, efficiency is on the side of a massive, voluntary and systematic strengthening of controls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u443	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u444	I talked about your plan to introduce a pre-authorization system for families, and they made it very clear to me how things are happening at the moment. It would be much easier to identify drifts with massive, systematic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u445	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u446	...that of pretending to do so a priori, with the authorisation regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u447	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u448	In fact, during checks, children cannot lie about what they have learned and learning or absence can be easily observed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] On the other hand, I am concerned about the criteria for prior authorisation, which have not been indicated to us: on which choices will they be based? What risk of discrimination will they pose? Public servants must also be protected: how will they justify refusing certain families, after saying "yes" to others? What principles, what criteria will they invoke? You are putting them at risk, while strengthening the current system and additional resources would be more effective and would protect them better, while guaranteeing fundamental freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u449	Mr François de Rugy, chairman of the special committee, will be the last speaker before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u450	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We are probably at the end of the debate on family education, which we have been dealing with since this morning. [[Same movements]] We are debating the principle of including in the law an article on the subject, whereas, I would remind you, this concerns only 62,000 students out of the 12.5 million schooled in our country – at least we will agree on these figures. We have therefore devoted much of our day to a tiny part of the question of the school's report to the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u451	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u452	Let us keep the sense of measure, while some are embarking on great debates on the freedom of education!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u453	We don't compromise on freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u454	Ladies and gentlemen on the right of the House, let us begin by dismissing a first debate, which is entirely legitimate, where our differences are fundamental, that of the role of the school in the Republic. We are a number of people here who believe that it plays a fundamental role in transmitting the values of the Republic, and emancipating children from difficult social or family situations, who would otherwise lead them on wrong paths. Yes, we think the school plays a very important role. [["Very good! » on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But we also have another conviction, which is the basis of article 21: it is up to the Republic to set a framework for parents and not the other way round. Yes, we probably have a fundamental divergence here. That is the red line of our action in the fight against all forms of separatism that we are leading with this bill: we are restoring and updating the framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u455	It's totalitarianism on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u456	Why does this concern family education? I have heard some of you say that they have never seen, among those who practice it, parents involved in sectarian drift, or religious fundamentalism – whether it is radical Islamism or another, because there are others –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u457	Really? Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u458	...which, in their view, justifies removing the children from school. [[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds]] Frankly! Colleagues, did you really think that parents who follow sectarian logic or that of religious fundamentalism and immigrate their children would come and boast about it with you? Listen to the mayors of France who have been repeating for years that one of the main problems they face, especially in certain neighbourhoods, is the de-schooling – because that is what this is all about. Mr. Chassaigne is no longer there, but I am sure that my words will be passed on to him; I was also sensitive to Stéphane's intervention A little earlier. I also remember his words in the Special Committee on Family Education, whose general orientation I have understood: he believes in the school's ability to strengthen the Republic and to offer opportunities to all children in France, including and especially in families in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u459	We believe in it, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u460	I, too, could tell you about my grandfather, who was a teacher before World War II, and what he told me. All his life, he fought with the parents, went to their homes to explain to them that their children should not be taken out of school, that they should continue their studies beyond the minimum level of education, which was then much lower than today. We can welcome the extension of compulsory education under the previous legislature, as under the current one, to combat various forms of school leaving. It is true that there are no longer many cases of out-of-school children because their parents put them to work – that was the first reason, before and after World War II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u461	It's not that, the de-schooling today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u462	But these cases still exist and I am surprised that we never talk about them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u463	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u464	I can tell you that in Nantes, I know the problem. Children are out of school because their parents want them to work, especially in the Roma community. And all the associations that support the integration of this community are fighting for one thing: schooling, which gives children access to knowledge, training, and thus offers them opportunities, but is also a key to social work – it is there, the link with the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u465	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u466	We have all met here with parents who practice family education – I really think no Member of Parliament is an exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u467	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u468	From this point of view, the militant action of these parents has been effective. So I've met and it's obvious: none of those who have made this choice because of their child's state of health or disability, because he or she would play a high-level sport, or in view of a particular educational project – a project that could be discussed – because the child is gifted, or because he or she is unfit for school...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u469	Because of the harassment in school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u470	... will not be endangered by this text, as drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u471	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u472	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand – and we assume to say so – yes, some in this country are diverting the system, using its flaws, and that is one of the causes of de-schooling. It is against this that we want to fight and this concern is part and parcel of the fight against separatism and the reaffirmation of the principles of the Republic. Article 21 should therefore be voted on and should not be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u473	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u474	At least he'll be better than Rugy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u475	I have already spoken twice, so I will not repeat the principles of this article. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] In this period which is, we do not forget, very specific in health, we French daily send a message which can be summed up in one sentence, which also applies to today's debate: school is good for children. This word may seem obvious, but it is not so much on a global scale, and it has been fundamental in the history of our country. The school is a founder – many have said it on all benches, and very well; I will not accuse anyone here of thinking otherwise. Nevertheless, this must be recalled. At this very moment, France is sending an extremely important message at an international and European level: yes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u476	We're getting worse and worse in the rankings!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u477	Mr Di Filippo, and the two 2000 additional posts we have created throughout France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u478	... we save the operation of the school every day, despite the considerable difficulties that we are going through, like other countries. Today's message is the same: school is good for children. Of course, we are not blind and respect freedom of education, as we have said. As the chair of the special commission has just said, yes, we are able to admit exceptions – they are included in the bill. Through the national representation, I finally want to address the families: pay attention, do not listen to those who want to scare you unnecessarily by launching prophecies that they would like to self-fulfill – Amendment No 1212, aimed at changing the title of Section 1 gives an example of this. Yes, this article protects those who teach well in the family and targets those who hijack this model to go against the Republic. This text will strengthen the Republic and the rights of the child, I said. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] I can see that some are trying to open other debates, which I will not address now. Simply, Mr Little, I am a little surprised at the positions that you have defended at the moment, because they seem to me to be very different from those you have taken in the special committee – but I will come back to that. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, it is important today to unite the Republicans. If one is a Republican, and if one wants to implement the rights of the child, one must vote against these deletion amendments and therefore for article 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u479	[[Continuous Brouhaha and pulpit taps]] Mr Lagarde wishes to have the last word and the scheduled legislative time allows him to do so. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u480	I'm not sure your exclamations will save you time – I'll wait for them to calm down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u481	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u482	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] Minister, I do not hear what you have just said as an insult. Those who would vote for you would be Republicans, those who would vote against would be anti-Republicans – these are outrageous remarks from a minister of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u483	It's posture!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u484	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Mr Minister, you have asked our colleague Peu, who has remarkably described the situation in Seine-Saint-Denis and the reasons why parents do not want their children to attend public school, and prefer, while they are poor, to sacrifice most of their modest means and their holidays so that they do not fail. Unfortunately, all this is true, and you can't get these people to move if the Republic school doesn't suit them. Some of them would like to have other options – private school or home teaching – but you're preventing them. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Finally, Mr Castaner, fortunately, you closed the school you were talking about in Bobigny – it was time for that. Nevertheless, in order to avoid hypocrisy – not yours, but that of the State – that the Muslim school in question was in premises sold by the State, in this case by the prefecture of the Seine-Saint-Denis, to a fundamentalist association under the previous legislature, this is contrary to the opinion of the municipalities of the time. This school was housed by the former departmental youth and sports department. This is the reality of the dual language of the State in our departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u485	How interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u486	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1 and following.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u487	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 277 Number of votes cast 263 Absolute majority 132 For adoption 77 Against 186
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u488	I have 13 amendments, Nos 839, 846, 2059, 421, 538, 834, 10, 1023, 54, 1648, 1663, 157 and 951, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 421, 538 and 834, as well as Amendments Nos 1648 and 1663, are identical. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendments Nos 839 and 846, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u489	The purpose of Amendment No. 839 is to request the Government to submit to Parliament a report assessing the potential link between family education and the radicalization of children following this mode of education. No public document has so far seen an increase in radicalization that would justify the suppression of this freedom. The Ministries of National Education and the Interior could prepare this report, which is necessary in the context of the evaluation of public policies. Amendment No 846 seeks to affirm that compulsory education may, if the parents so wish, be provided within the family under the conditions laid down in Article L. 131-5 of the Education Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u490	Amendments Nos 2059 by Mr Nicolas Forissier, 421 by Mr Xavier Breton, 538 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 834 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 10 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras were defended. Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u491	If the IEF is not a focus of radicalization, we understand that it could become one tomorrow. To rule is to anticipate. So I suggest that you keep a reporting system, but one that would be based on the requirement to complete a very specific form that could give rise to a check prior to the commencement of home education. Such a system would remove any constitutional compliance problems, make it possible to exercise a priori control and maintain the IEF as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u492	Amendments Nos 54 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, 1648 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin, 1663 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup, 157 by Mr Gérard Cherpion and 951 by Mr Olivier Marleix are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u493	I have read carefully all the amendments, which, by defending complementary or alternative ideas to prior authorisation, completely rewrite Article 21 and abolish this authorisation. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u494	It's dogmatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u495	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u496	The same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u497	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 2476 and 2477, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u498	These two amendments aim to set up an inspection at the home of the child's officials, before the actual start of home education, an idea that we developed when we defended amendments to delete the article. It seems obvious to us that a priori control will be discriminatory, since you have no criteria to determine a family's ability to provide education for their children at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u499	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u500	We prefer the deployment of effective control. Madam rapporteur, you told us in committee that monitoring is too late – someone has even shown that it is sometimes non-existent. The problem therefore lies not in prior authorisation, which will not be granted on any solid basis, but in the reality of control. The majority has decided to restrict freedom and provide for prior authorisation, but only the effectiveness of the control, which must be precisely defined. Families can be problematic either because they fail to give the necessary education to their child, who must therefore return to school, or because they live in separatism and raise their child against the values we share, a situation which must also lead to his return to school. For the latter category, it is quite possible that the educational project, the accompaniment and the development of the child would seem entirely satisfactory. We therefore plan a very rapid check, then, in case of doubt, a series of checks, close to each other and designed to prevent the child from drifting if he does not benefit from the desired instruction. We also believe that controls should be much more flexible in families whose educational project, the means to implement it and the ability to accompany the child are good. Our goal is to regain the spirit of freedom of education at home. A freedom must not be subject to conditions or authorisations, but to controls, designed to verify the absence of abuse. Amendment No 2476 seeks to establish control, without the need to restrict this freedom by prior authorisation, which will be granted or refused in a random and unfounded manner. Amendment No 2477 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u502	Unfavorable opinion. The amendments propose to go back to the reporting system, with a check that would take place fairly quickly and a return to school. To maintain the status quo, you propose to drop out of school and then go back to school at a distance of one month. In a pragmatic way, the committee gave an unfavourable opinion. I don't know if you're doing any checks when you're mayor, but they're part of the system: there's not just pedagogical checks, town hall checks are important too. At the moment, the children – as you said and I had reminded them in committee – arrive too late: in the meantime, the children are out of school and delivered to their parents, whose ability to educate them has not been the subject of any verification, which is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u504	Same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u505	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u506	To hear the rapporteur's question, it would seem that it is the city control that is failing. I assure you, when I was mayor, we carried out systematic checks. The national education had to pass on to us the names of the children concerned! A few years ago, the list of these children was not communicated to the mayors. We need to know what we're talking about! These lists have only been transmitted to town halls for about ten years. It must be said to the French who listen to us, the mayor controls only the existence of the material conditions of the education: in a word, his services verify that there are not twelve people in the housing and that there is a place where the child can work. The mayor cannot control anything else, for the simple reason that he does not have educational empowerment. I see you protesting, Madam rapporteur, but inquire! The mayor sends his opinion to national education, which verifies that the child is receiving an education. Monitoring could be more effective if the national education services did so earlier and saw the family and mayor more quickly. I contest your argument that the amendments would aim to maintain the status quo, since we want to improve the controls that you yourself have deemed insufficient and defective. By pure ideology and by virtue of the principle that the State would know better than the family what was needed for the child, you decide that the child is better in school than in his or her family. I prefer that the choice exists: some children are very good at school, others are not or are less good at school. In Seine-Saint-Denis, there is not a single public institution that can accommodate an early child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u507	But it's planned, you have to read the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u508	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Families are therefore obliged to adapt or even move. But you don't care about that. The minister said earlier that a measure was justified even if there was only one child concerned: in a department like ours, there are more than one child involved! In general, parents, sometimes single women, are poor people who do not know what to do with their child for whom the school is not suitable. If you want to give lessons, build at least one public service to accommodate these children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u509	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u510	I take the floor again because you have just said too many things wrong, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u511	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u512	You obviously conducted city hall inquiries when you were mayor, which is good. I also signed a lot of them when I was deputy mayor of Lyon in charge of education. When I signed these surveys on families instructing their child at home – that was some time ago, before I was a member of Parliament – I was confronted with situations that bothered me. It was as a result of these municipal inquiries that I chose to work, from the very beginning of my term as a Member of Parliament, on school leaving. I conducted a flash mission on the subject with George Pau-Langevin, who, as a Member of Parliament for Paris, had the same concern about certain situations of de-schooling. Town hall surveys have a role: they have a social dimension and are not solely aimed at inspecting housing; The aim is to verify the conditions under which the child is educated in the family. They make it possible to make reports of children who are unfortunately in danger. I wanted to make that point, because you said a lot of things wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u513	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u514	In a commune which I know well and which I have administered, this control was carried out by a former member of the Brigade for the Protection of Minors under the authority of the Council for the Rights and Duties of Families. So you're not going to explain to me how this is going! The person performing the check can superficially assess what you call the social situation, that of housing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u515	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u516	... the behaviour of the child and the family atmosphere – which, during his or her passage, is obviously organised – but he or she cannot measure the child's progress, what he or she learns and what he or she does not learn. It is only a physical control, the pedagogical control – fortunately – belongs only to national education, whether you want it or not. We agree to strengthen controls, but you want arbitrary prior authorisation, which is based on no basis or criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u517	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u518	We regret this choice, to which we prefer freedom with ex post checks to protect children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u519	I have before me six amendments, No 404, 523, 782, 2007, 1980 and 2006, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 404, 523 and 782, as well as amendments Nos 1980 and 2006 are identical. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 404 and, if you will, Amendment No. 1980.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u520	Amendment No 404 is intended to write this sentence in the Education Code, which could bring us all together: "Parents are the first educators of their children. » The term "first educators" obviously has a chronological meaning, but it also states the primacy of parents in the education of their children. We had already made this proposal at the time of the review of the law of 8 July 2013 on orientation and programming for the re-foundation of the school of the Republic, carried by Mr. Vincent Peillon, who had refused it. We submitted it again on the occasion of the review of the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust, but you also rejected it, minister, in the ideological line of one of your predecessors. You do disagree with us, because you think that children should be taken away from their families. Vincent Peillon said that children had to be removed from determinisms, especially family ones. On the contrary, we believe that the family is a factor of development and a chance. There may be situations of abuse, but they are very marginal. The State can intervene at that time, but only in a subsidiary way, because in the vast majority of cases families know very well what is good for their children. It is important that, from the first article of the Education Code on the right to education, the following sentence be mentioned: "Parents are the first educators of their children. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u521	Identical amendments Nos 523 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 782 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor to defend Amendment No. 2007.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u522	I will simply say that it is being defended, because of the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u523	Identical amendments Nos 1980 by Mr Xavier Breton and 2006 by Mr Patrick Hetzel are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u524	Under the same conditions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u525	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u526	Unfavorable opinion. Article L. 111-2 of the Education Code states that "[t]he child is entitled to school training which, complementing the work of his family, contributes to his education. The bill does not run counter to the concept you are talking about, because it deals not with education, but with education. In the majority of cases, the school must be responsible for this; It is the responsibility of the family exceptionally, where the needs of the child so warrant. That is what clause 21 of the bill provides. It is therefore not necessary to include in the education code this sentence, which has been enshrined by some.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u527	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u528	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Breton, I cannot let you say that we consider that parents do not have a fundamental role in education; It's pretending not to hear everything we've said and written. The Civil Code enshrines their role. Therefore, the amendment is at best superfate and, at worst, disparaging in view of everything we do. On the contrary, we affirm that parents play an essential role. We also affirm the concept, which should be shared by all, of co-education: parents entrust their children to school and together – parents and school – they have a responsibility. This balance is desirable. Of course, the vast majority of parents are benevolent and care for their children well; It must be said and repeated, and the fundamental role of the family must be recognized. Nevertheless, there are exceptions – you yourself acknowledged – that our goal is to deal with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u529	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u530	Minister, you are consistent: you used exactly the same arguments when you were defending your law. The problem is that we are many who consider that the role of families must also be strongly affirmed. You claim, in a purely rhetorical way, that families are considered. Every time we can enshrine their role in the law, I think we're doing a service. The fact that you are sweeping this proposal with a back of your hand is very evocative of the vision that you are defending on this subject and that I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u531	Amendment No 2386 by Mrs Anne-Christine Lang is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u532	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u533	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor to support Amendment No. 2127.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u534	As we can all see in our constituencies, attacks on teachers and national education personnel are increasing. We cannot allow parents of students to attack those who carry out a mission of general interest and take care of the children. While they receive civic and moral education, their parents do not always have access to resources to provide education in line with the rules of living in society. We must make up for this lack. The draft law creates a Republican contract of engagement for associations; In the same vein, the amendment proposed by Mr Frédéric Barbier aims to create a Republican contract of engagement signed by the parents of pupils at the beginning of the year in all public and private schools of maternal, primary and secondary education. By signing this contract, which will provide a pedagogic presentation of the principles of the Republic, parents will be committed to respecting and promoting the values and rules of society. This includes protecting the child and any public service official from possible disagreements caused by philosophical or religious opinions, which may lead to violent acts. The commission of such acts – insults, damage to physical integrity, etc. – to any public service official under the jurisdiction of the educational institution is a clear failure of the parent to respect the principles of the Republic. Under the terms of this amendment, the breach of the contract of employment will result in the introduction of a course of support for citizenship and parenthood, intended for parents, in connection with the UNAF – National Union of Family Associations – and the local specialised associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u535	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u536	With this amendment, you propose that the parents of students sign a Republican engagement contract at the beginning of the school year, as they already sign the charter of secularism, circulated by circular in 2013 to teach, share, and enforce principles and values. This mission is entrusted to the school by the nation; It was reaffirmed in the 2013 Act. Therefore, the contract you wish to create could be put into practice in the same way by the Ministry of National Education, but it is not a subject to be put into a bill. I would add that the amendment concerns schools, not family education. Therefore, I request its withdrawal. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u537	I have before me five amendments, Nos 403, 522, 777, 1979 and 2005, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 403, 522 and 777 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 1979 and 2005. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u538	He goes back to the role of parents. The rapporteur and the minister replied that families play an important or even fundamental role, but they are unable to say that parents are the first educators of their children. It is this sentence that must be heard, but you are unable to pronounce it. Your aim is, on the contrary, to kidnap children from their families to the maximum extent possible and to subject them to the guardianship of the State. Will you have the courage to say that parents are the first educators of their children?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u539	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u540	Identical amendments Nos 522 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 777 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. This is also the case with identical amendments Nos 1979 by Mr Xavier Breton and 2005 by Mr Patrick Hetzel. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u541	Mr Breton, we are not going to repeat the discussion we have just had. This is not about courage, but about consistency with the code of education. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u542	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u543	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u544	Identical amendments No 406 by Mr Xavier Breton, No 525 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, No 785 by Mr Marc Le Fur, No 1599 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, No 1650 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin and No 2689 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u545	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u546	I have before me three amendments, Nos 2190, 694 and 691, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2190.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u547	It is an alternative proposal, but I am not sure that the time is right for this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u548	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 694 and 691.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u549	The aim of Amendment No 694 is to highlight the choice of parents and their educational project for their child in the context of home education, with the aim of establishing a finding of its veracity and solidity. To do so, a check could be made within one month of receipt of the first statement and after consideration of the educational project. Amendment No 691 seeks to establish a home inspection of the child's officials within months of the actual start of home education. This inspection should also provide an important first link of trust between the family and the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u550	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u551	I have studied all the amendments carefully. Mr Dharréville, your amendment is intended to go back to the principle of declaration: I am therefore against it. Nevertheless, I note that you take back positive elements such as the verification of the ability of parents to provide family education, respect for the best interests of the child, the school avoidance unit and the collection of the child's words. I share your view on this, although my view is unfavourable. I am also against Mrs Descamps' two amendments. They are defending the status quo to keep a system over a hundred years old that no longer corresponds to what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u552	Amendment No 1288 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u553	Amendment No 1089 by Mrs Nathalie Porte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u554	Amendment No 1756 by Mrs Catherine Osson is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u555	I ask that the amendment on home school be withdrawn. It's an interesting subject. I believe that you will be submitting a request for a report on this subject after Article 53 – I hope at least. If the amendment is retained, I shall give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u556	I have before me four amendments, Nos 964, 2220, 58 and 59, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 964 and 2220 are identical. I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 964.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u557	It is about filling a blind spot in the bill. The wording of article 21 equates distance education with family education. However, a pupil undergoing distance education is enrolled in a school; He is not educated in the family. In order to understand and reinforce the spirit of the law, the amendment seeks to create a Republican educational convention, signed by the distance education institution and the national education system. It also provides for additional conditions for obtaining accreditation, which will make it possible to be even more consistent with this spirit. At the time of digitization, while the health crisis shows us every day that distance learning is fruitful, that it provides necessary services and that it will not cease to be an important mode of teaching, adopting it would be in the sense of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u558	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2220.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u559	This amendment, worked in collaboration with the National Federation of Private Education, aims to distinguish, in the new procedure for prior authorization of family education, the specific situation of distance education, whether delivered by CNED or by private bodies. In order to maintain the system of prior exemption for pupils enrolled in distance learning institutions, we wish to establish a system of accreditation granted under conditions to private schools, which would enable them to verify their compliance with the republican principles and the requirements of supervised and effective schooling. The proposed amendment creates a Republican educational convention with national education, signed by the private distance education institution and by the parents of the pupils attending it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u560	I have before me two amendments, Nos 58 and 59, which may be submitted to a joint presentation. Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u561	The first signatory to these amendments is Mr Jacques Marilossian. Amendment No 58 seeks, in order to maintain the system of prior declaration for pupils enrolled in distance education organisations – EAD – to introduce an accreditation system, allowing the conformity of these institutions with respect for republican values and the requirements of supervised and effective schooling for the alternative path of the EAD. Amendment No 59 is withdrawn. It aims to create an accreditation system for distance education bodies registered in France, in order to enable national education to ensure better control of the resources proposed by them in the framework of the IEF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u562	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u563	These amendments, of which I thank you for reminding the author, tend to amend the education code to include a new method of education: to education in schools and to family education, education would be added through distance education bodies. As they are not under contract with the State or subject to the obligations of private non-contracted education, you propose that they be approved by the State. This is an additional and important task for the Ministry of National Education, whether or not to endorse it, in order to secure the choice of educational resources for families engaged in family education. By proposing that the first sentence of paragraph 3 be drafted differently, the amendments effectively exclude distance education organizations from the family education system, thus dispensing families using such resources with the possibility of applying for prior authorization. It would therefore be difficult to ensure compliance with the permitted grounds for family education; Similarly, there can be no exemption from educational checks or, above all, from the social surveys of the town hall. I therefore propose that you withdraw these amendments; Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u564	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u565	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u566	Mr Fuchs, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u567	No, I will not withdraw Amendment No 964, because it answers a real question. In addition, you are talking about a prior approval or application, but it must be considered that these students are in a school, not in a distance learning institution: they are therefore not covered by Article 21. I prefer to post my position, even if the amendment is under-amended or rectified by the rapporteur or the Government. Maintaining the text as it stands means that the CNED will also be in a position to provide distance courses. In the years to come, we will need a large number of distance learning institutions, because this will be one of the essential vectors of education for young people, including students. Why close the window when it is necessary to promote distance learning as much as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u568	Do you maintain yours, Mr. Bournazel?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u569	Yes, Madam President, I stand by Amendment No 2220.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u570	Do you take the same position, Mr. Testé?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u571	Yes, Madam President, I stand by Amendments Nos 58 and 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u572	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 407, 526 and 786. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 407.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u573	Because of the time schedule, I'm just saying that he's being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u574	Amendments Nos 526 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 786 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u575	Disadvantaged, since these amendments still deal with distance learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u576	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u577	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u578	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 2729, 2730, 2747, 2749, 2750 and 2753, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2729, 2730 and 2747 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 2749, 2750 and 2753. Amendments Nos 2729 by Mr Xavier Breton, 2730 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 2747 by Mr Marc Le Fur are defended. Identical amendments Nos 2749 by Mr Xavier Breton, 2750 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 2753 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u579	The amendments were tabled after the committee meeting, which was therefore unable to consider them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u580	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u581	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u582	Amendment No 1600 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u583	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2620.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u584	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that family education may be provided by the parents, by one of them, or by any person of their choice, as currently provided for in article L. 131-2 of the Education Code. Since this reference has been deleted in the new wording of section L. 131-2 proposed by the bill, it is proposed to reintroduce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u585	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u586	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u587	Amendment No 271 by Pierre Vatin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u588	I call Mr Le Bohec to support Amendment No. 2461, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u589	This amendment seeks, as I said in my speech on Article 21, to make the measures proportionate. 150,000 children are schooled in out-of-contract schools, 100,000 children are out of radar – for them, digital identification is important. In all, there is a significant risk for 250,000 children. The aim is to align the IEF's reporting regime, which covers only 15,000 children, with that of non-contracted private institutions. How do we get that figure of 15,000? A total of 60000 children are covered by the IEF, of whom 30000 are due to their state of health or disability, or are involved in intensive sports or artistic activities. So there are 30,000 left, 50% of them for less than a year, according to the researchers. We are interested in the remaining 15,000 children. For their family's statements, the level of requirement must be raised to what is required for private non-contracted establishments, where the risk of drift seems to me the most important, in order to obtain a parallelism of forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u590	On Amendment No 2461, as corrected, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u591	The purpose of this amendment is to retain the operative part of the prior declaration: to this end, it proposes a new wording of Article 21 and takes an example on the arrangements for opening a private non-contracted school. As you know, we are defending the device of prior authorization. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion. However, time must be taken to clarify the comparison with the out-of-contract school reporting system. First of all, the freedom to open a private educational institution has been recognized by the Constitutional Council, which has recalled it in many decisions, as a fundamental principle of freedom of education: it is for this reason that it is subject to declaration. However, the system of declaration of the opening of a private school has evolved greatly with the Gatel Act of 13 April 2018, which strongly regulated the opening of private non-contracted schools. Article 22 will also deal with the closure of private non-contracted schools. The Gatel Act provides that, in the absence of an objection, the institution is open at the end of a period of three months: during this period of time, it cannot accommodate children until the examination of the application is carried out. As a result, during the three months during which the administration is considering the application, the school does not accept any children. You propose to transpose this provision into family education, which is not valid, because once the declaration is made, the child is at home, out of school, waiting for the answer. In this case, you propose to open the possibility of opposition to the institutions, which could intervene at any time. Such authorization would not be safe for families or children. It is for this reason that I shall reject other amendments proposing the introduction of a provisional authorisation allowing the child to go to school pending a check, which would then be like a sword of Damocles and would put the child in a difficult situation. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u592	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u593	Your presentation is interesting, Mr. Le Bohec. It offers an opportunity to develop. I will extend the intervention of the rapporteur by comparing the functioning of the IEF with that of non-contractual establishments. First of all, contrary to what some people have been able to claim today, the Government is not focused on family education. The following article will deal with out-of-contract schools. As I have said on several occasions, at the beginning of this quinquennium, and for decades it has been easier to open a school than to open a bar: at the end of the quinquennium, it will be more difficult. We owe it to the Gatel law, which allowed me, during the last two school years, to prevent the opening of certain schools, something which the lack of legal support would not have allowed in the past. On the other hand, the Gatel law is insufficient for us to be effective in closing. Yes, we see the problem of out-of-contract schools that do not respect the values of the Republic. And, yes, we want to deal with that, as well as other issues that have been raised. Once again, we have a complete vision, because every child on the ground of the Republic has the right to go to school, and it is our duty to make it possible. We do this, from different angles, as we will see with other devices. Family education is therefore not the only subject. As for the parallelism between family education and out-of-contract school, the rapporteur has just said: the presence of a declaration scheme for out-of-contract private schools does not make the creation of a school easier than family education. Indeed, the files we are asking for, such as the type of control we carry out, require, and it is quite normal, much more work and much more evidence, when it comes to opening an out-of-contract school than when you simply enrol a child in an IEF. Words must not mislead us. You'll probably agree. Like the rapporteur, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise it will be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u594	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u595	The rapporteur highlighted the three-month deadline: when I refer to the parallelism of forms, my aim is not to bring children out of school immediately, but to be able to anticipate this three-month period so that the authorities have time to say whether the conditions and the project are in place. As for the opening of an out-of-contract school, it is a matter of educational freedom, on a declaratory basis, although, of course, the conditions can be defined by a decree made under the authority of national education, which is best placed to decide these questions. The decree I have mentioned will define the methods of gathering information even before the start of home-based investigation. I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u596	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u597	I find the amendment formidable, especially when I read its explanatory statement: "The risks of drifts from private non-contracted establishments are at least as important as those likely to affect the EFI". In other words, freedom, that of family education, and then of non-contracted schools, will first be attacked, and then it will be the turn of the schools under contract. I hope you are aware that this is a real drift, Mr. Le Bohec.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u598	A drift? You mean a spiral! The parliamentarians are dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u599	That would be quite formidable for the many out-of-contract schools. In case of drift, they may be investigated, or their authorization may be withdrawn, which is preferable to the measures you recommend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u600	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u601	We have discussed the matter a great deal. I am glad to hear what Mr Le Fur has just said, because they show the way in which the amendment can be read! In fact, the system that we are going to introduce will give the greatest possible place to the IEF when it works well, while preventing those who want it from leaving the Republic, through an authorisation mechanism. If we retain the argument that there is no need to improve a system when we fail to improve others, then we don't do anything anymore, because everything stands still. In fact, only a few thousand children, especially young girls, are involved. But in the name of what would we refuse to change the reality that they live? Wouldn't that be a form of contempt? Thanks to the system that we are going to establish, these few thousand young girls will return to the Republic. As we know, the vast majority of families already engaged in the IEF will benefit from a simplified, if not quasi-automatic, treatment of their demand. In addition, in accordance with an amendment adopted upon consideration of the text in committee, the absence of a reply will be acceptable. Finally, we are going to create a remedy under an amendment that we are going to consider shortly. [[Caroline Abadie applauds]] I think we have reached a balance. With all due respect to our colleague Gaël Le Bohec and all the friendship I have with him, I think he is wrong on this issue. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u602	I put to the vote Amendment No 2461 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u603	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 160 Number of votes cast 152 Absolute majority 77 For adoption 23 Against 129
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u604	Mr Pierre Cordier's identical amendments No 2 and Mrs Frédérique Meunier's corrected amendments No 292 were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u605	Amendment No 2285 by Mrs Liliana Tanguy is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u606	The amendment is satisfied. I therefore ask for the withdrawal, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u607	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2558, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u608	It aims to recall the importance of the principles of the Republic in the educational path of the child. By signing a declaration on honour, which would form part of the documents accompanying the educational project, the holders of parental authority wishing to practise the IEF would undertake to become acquainted with the charter of secularism and the values of the Republic associated with it. Failure to comply with this commitment, found during a review carried out by the academic services, could lead to sanctions, for example the suspension of the authorisation to practise the IEF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u609	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u610	You would like the issuing of the authorization referred to in the first paragraph of article L. 131-2, as amended, of the Education Code to be "subject to a declaration on honour of commitment for the principles of the Republic on the part of the holders of parental authority" and that this commitment "is based on the principles of the Charter of secularism at school". In my view, parents cannot be required to sign a document similar to the secularism charter: designed for the public and collective space of our schools, it cannot be applied in the private sphere. I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u611	Mr Frédéric Petit, in support of Amendment No. 1262, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 2724, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u612	If I can present this amendment, it is thanks to the work done in national education over the past three years. Indeed, you have reorganized your operators, Minister. One speaker considered that article 21 was not sufficient. It would be fair if there hadn't been these three years of effort. In any case, it is wrong to say that we rely solely on article 21 to act. I express myself with a double experience. In my capacity as head of an important social action project in what was then called a ZUP – an area to be urbanized as a priority – I spent fifteen years looking for children who were not in the system, climbing the stairs and going to see them. Then, given what my life has been, in France and abroad, I raised my children either by using private schools or by practicing IEF. I am therefore well aware, on the one hand, of the phenomenon of children who are disappearing, as well as of the reasons for their disappearance and how to get them, and, on the other hand, of the IEF. There are, I would say, two kinds of IEF. First of all, I would point out, there is an EFI that is a pioneer of excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u613	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u614	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u615	Mr. Chouat recalled this earlier when he spoke of the need to put education at the heart of the debate. There is then an EFI that is part of separatism or, a step further, of what many of my colleagues and I call the archipelization of society. Some claim – as we heard earlier – that when the school of the Republic no longer works, we must support the IEF. No. If the school of the Republic no longer works, its reconstruction is everyone's business,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u616	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u617	... including parents who practice the IEF properly. If I judge by my experience, article 21 is indeed aimed at those who want to cheat. Contrary to what many say, it is not true that the intended ones will properly write an educational project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u618	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u619	The strengthening provided for in Article 21 is therefore a very good thing. I would also like to give testimony, which I have shared with the many parents I have met. In a foreign country where we resided, my wife and I had to apply for permission to educate our children at home, and we went to a school psychologist. Well, I'm telling you frankly, as a parent, I felt better, stronger, with this permission...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u620	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u621	...that if I had just made a statement. And I didn't feel that I was being asked to do that. The road code was discussed earlier. When I was a kid, the road code didn't provide for the mandatory wearing of the seat belt. When the measure was imposed, no one felt targeted or considered one of the drivers targeted by the measure. Everyone began to wear the belt, although it was a constraint; Remember, it made everyone laugh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u622	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u623	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the public service of digital education and distance learning, as defined in the Education Code, carries out an additional task: to make resources available to parents who practise IEF. This would be an important development: one always looks outside at these parents; It would now be considered that they are part of a whole, that they participate in the educational action of the nation. With such an extension of its missions, the public service of digital education and distance learning, which you have reorganized for three years, Minister, could become this cement for parents who practice IEF, and facilitate feedback. Freinet pedagogy, of which we are all talking, was originally applied in an exceptional way, and then developed through feedback. [[The rapporteur-general, as well as Messrs. Rémy Rebeyrotte, Philippe Vigier and Guillaume Vuilletet applaud]] Far from prohibiting the IEF, this text will put the action of the parents concerned at the heart of the educational action of the French nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u624	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No 2724 and to give the committee's opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u625	Thank you, Mr Petit, for this amendment, which values the public service of digital education, which is so useful to teachers and students. You propose to extend its tasks so that the children educated with the family and their parents also benefit, through the provision of resources, in particular on the teaching of the principles of the Republic. The committee gives an opinion in favour of your amendment. However, I am proposing a sub-amendment to delete the fourth paragraph of the amendment, which provides that the public service of digital education also provides the national pupil identifier. This is attributed to 98% of students – who are enrolled in public or private education under contract – by another administrative method, which should be retained. With this sub-amendment, we simply propose a small editorial cleansing – let me have the expression – necessary from the point of view of legislating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u626	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u627	Thank you, Mr Petit, for your comments on the reorganization of the CNED and the national education operators in Poitiers. I often say that Poitiers is the "capital of education", to mean that, in the context of the digital revolution in particular, we have there, thanks to our operators and our management school, now called the IH2EF – the Institute of Higher Studies in Education and Training – a real centre of excellence for education, especially for digital education. Your proposal is interesting, but in order to support my opinion, I would like to elaborate on the following points. Under the Education Code, CNED is a national public institution that "provides the public service for distance education on behalf of the State. As such, it provides an educational service for pupils, in particular those who are subject to compulsory education, who are intended to be accommodated in one of the institutions referred to in articles L. 132-1 and L. 132-2 [of the Education Code] and who cannot be fully or partially enrolled in one of these institutions. » Although the role of the CNED was well defined, its missions were heard in a particularly extensive manner at the time of confinement, everyone saw it well. The usefulness of a large operator of this type has been very clear across the country and, beyond that, at international level. Families who choose to educate their children at home can use the services of CNED – we all know that this is largely the case – as provided for in article L. 131-2 of the Education Code: "Compulsory education may be given either in public or private schools or in families by parents, or one of them, or any person of their choice. As part of the public service of education and in order to contribute to its tasks, a public service of digital education and distance education is organised." The public covered by the distance education service provided by the CNED is not exhaustively defined in article L. 131-2 above, since it includes the adverb "in particular". While it is not specified that this service is intended for students educated at home, the current wording of the article allows them to make use of it, which they do, I repeat, in reality. It is therefore not necessary to add the mention provided for in the amendment. In addition, the CNED offer is constructed by the operator in accordance with the regulations in force; The training courses it offers meet the criteria laid down in the Education Code, in particular with regard to the common basis. We therefore consider that it is not necessary to specify in the Education Code how part of the education should be provided, even if this part concerns the exercise of citizenship. Compliance with existing legislation is sufficient to ensure that pupils using distance education benefit from courses in moral and civic education, which teach them the sharing of the values of the Republic and the exercise of citizenship. Finally, CNED is not intended to build an offer of resources for parents or accompanying family children, since this is not within its competence. When the IEF results from a situation not chosen by the student, the student is registered with the regulated CNED, which, as you have pointed out, is taken care of by the State. I therefore express an unfavourable opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment, because they are largely satisfied with the texts in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u628	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u629	I thank the rapporteur for her sub-amendment and for her support. Mr Minister, there is a misunderstanding: my amendment refers not to CNED – which would also pose a competition problem, since it is, in a way, an operator who sells services – but to the public service of digital education. In my mind, the supply of resources to the parents you mentioned was not a matter for the CNED, but for the Canopé network or other services of this type. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] I am surprised that the public service of digital education and distance learning is defined in the law, but since it is, the adoption of this amendment would make it possible to formally entrust your ministry with a mission that it knows how to fulfil, as you recalled: that, if not to build an offer of services, to keep at least at the disposal of the parents, to collect the feedback I mentioned, and to integrate into a community and in an educational reflection people who do very good work and sometimes prove themselves pioneers. This would value their work, which, although it concerns very few families, makes it possible to strengthen in them the feeling of belonging to the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u630	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u631	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u632	I want to thank Mr. Petit for his testimony and confirm that we do not intend to abolish family education. It seems to me necessary, both through this amendment and through those we will then examine, to continue the discussion on Article 21, in order to change the existing arrangements and reassure the families who practice the IEF in good conditions and in a way that protects children. [[Guillaume Vuilletet applauds]] In the light of the explanations and experience reported, our group will follow the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u633	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-11-O1163.u634	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the draft law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
