ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Mrs Valérie Six and others for the employment of experienced workers until retirement (No 4537, 4691).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began its consideration of the articles of the bill, concluding with article 5 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u3	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u4	By this amendment, the Government lifts the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u5	Mrs Valérie Six, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u6	Favourable, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u7	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u8	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u9	I thank the elected members of my group, who enthusiastically supported my bill, and I know that all the elected representatives here have understood in all its dimensions the problem of the employability of seniors. The unanimous vote on the report of the fact-finding mission on the employment of experienced workers had clearly shown that all Members took this issue into account. I just regret that the Government has not taken on the evolution of the professional development counsel provided for in the initial drafting of article 3, which will not allow us to go as close as possible to what the Government itself expected. The bill should go to the Senate anyway, where I hope it can be reworked, obviously on the basis of everyone's opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u10	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution to recognise the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq (point 4622).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u11	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u12	First of all, I thank the House for adopting the Valérie Six bill. Our group wanted to put forward a motion for a resolution on the Kurdish genocide, which we believe should be recognised. Many of our compatriots have become aware of the existence of the Kurds thanks to the fighting they have waged alongside us, courageously – and often in our place – against the fighters of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. It is true that the history of the Kurds, both rich and complex, and their distribution across Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran, do not facilitate the understanding of this people. The Kurds have this particularity, as Pierre Vidal-Naquet rightly said, to be the great forgotten ones of history, that of yesterday as of today, and to constantly come to second place in the conscience of the nations. I am against the unfulfilled promises of the Treaty of Sèvres of 1920, which was to allow the establishment of an independent Kurdish state. This is proof of the support given to Saddam Hussein by a large part of the West in his war against Iran, when his regime had already begun genocidal actions against the Kurds. Finally, as proof of this, I want to say that the fate of our Kurdish allies in Syria, cowardly abandoned by the United States, in the general silence, and the reprisals and massacres committed by Turkey, so-called our ally, and its substitutes – often from Daesh. With this motion for a resolution, the IDU and independent group intends modestly to bring the Kurds into the light by making known and recognizing the horrors and genocide they have suffered in Iraq, particularly between March 1987 and April 1989.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u14	For, ladies and gentlemen, the term genocide is, in the case of the Kurds of Iraq, perfectly appropriate; Contrary to what I can hear or read here and there, they have not only been victims of a counter-insurgency policy led by Saddam Hussein's Iraqi government. Yes, this regime that part of the West supported in its war against Iran destroyed in a perfectly deliberate manner, by mass massacres, part of the Kurdish minority in Iraq, not because of what it had done, but only because it had committed the crime of existence! And it is not the IDU and independent group that rewrites or interprets the story, but 14 tons of documents, 847 cartons and more than 4 million pages emanating from the Iraqi bureaucracy and fallen into the hands of the Kurds after the fall of its regime that prove it. This policy of destruction was perfectly deliberate, prepared, organized, executed, and even recorded in the archives. For example, Saddam Hussein's cousin, commonly known as "Ali le chimique" or "the butcher of Kurdistan", was appointed in 1987 to bring the Kurdish region under the control of the central government. It had to solve the Kurdish problem once and for all and, in order to achieve this objective, all the resources of the Iraqi state were coordinated. It was with the greatest zeal and monstrosity that he worked on this task, as evidenced by his recordings and instructions ordering the killing of the largest number of people present in the forbidden areas, where all the inhabitants were considered insurgents. Few choices were then offered to the Kurds: to return to rank or to abandon their house, their activities and to accept forced displacement in a camp under surveillance, or to lose their citizenship, to be considered deserters and to die... And the eight military operations, called "Anfal", which took place from 23 February 1988 to 6 September of the same year constituted the culmination of this genocidal madness: they will begin in Sergalou and Bergalou, then continue in Qara Dagh, Germian, in the Zab valley, then in Shaqlawa and Rawanduz, and finally in Badinan, even after the ceasefire with Iran. In these areas, all Iraqi military operations took place in a similar manner: the mass use of chemical weapons, the massacre of civilians of all ages and genders, the complete disappearance of several tens of thousands of non-combatants, the establishment of concentration camps, the almost total destruction of property and infrastructure, and the total abandonment of thousands of people under extremely harsh conditions. During his visit to Iraqi Kurdistan on 29 August, Emmanuel Macron announced the establishment of cooperation projects, notably with the Halabja hospital, which was also the victim of a terrible massacre. If the name of this city were to evoke in some memories, I would like to remind the others that in March 1988, almost 5000 Kurds died there in a few hours during chemical attacks by the Iraqi army. On this point, the testimonies of survivors gathered in the Human Rights Watch report are both clear and untenable; the smells of the gases reminiscent of the sweet apple mixed with garlic, all keep in memory these nightmare scenesdescending and abominable of women, children and old men inert bloated, body littered on the floor, mouth open, or people dead behind the wheel of their car. While the event provoked a strong international indignation for a short time, France's action, despite being the depositary of the 1925 Geneva Convention, was limited to a statement condemning the "use of chemical weapons anywhere". Like we don't know... It will be necessary to wait until September 1988 and the influx of refugees into Turkey, fleeing a new chemical weapon offensive, for François Mitterrand to express his "worry at the information on the means of repression used against Kurdish populations in Iraq, including the use of chemical means". We couldn't do less. Far from condemning and trying to put an end to this policy, Washington will refuse sanctions and even grant a new US$ 1 billion credit line to Baghdad. We will have to wait until August 1990 and the occupation of Kuwait before the President of Iraq is finally called "New Hitler" by the Americans. However, the international community and the United States will not prevent in the spring of 1991, even though the West had won the war, Saddam Hussein's presidential guard to crush in blood the Kurdish revolt that the US President had called on to rise. It is only on 5 April 1991 that the international community will wake up under the impetus of France, Secretary of State, and that the UN Security Council will adopt Resolution 688. Subsequently, Operation Provide Comfort will provide emergency assistance to Kurdish refugees while establishing safe areas. But the record of this genocidal madness is particularly heavy, as Kendal Nezan, president of the Kurdish Institute in Paris, explains: 90% of Kurdish villages, and many cities, have been struck off the map; 15 million mines were laid in the countryside to make them unfit for farming and farming; 1.5 million Kurdish peasants have been interned in camps. But there were also cecities, miscarriages and congenital malformations for the victims of chemical weapons. In the end, this war by the Iraqi state against the Kurds has resulted in more than 400,000 dead or missing since 1974, or about 10% of Iraq's Kurdish population. The IDU and independent group is convinced that France, which knows better than other countries in the world what the word "genocide" means, should recognize that the Kurds have been victims of genocide in Iraq under Saddam Hussein's regime. I repeat: it was not collateral damage or isolated acts of misdemeanour by Iraqi officers, but it was by order of Saddam Hussein's government that the Kurds were subjected to a planned, systematic and massive killing. The vast majority of the dead were not fighters or support forces, but civilians killed because they lived in those territories and were wrong to be Kurdish. As the Human Rights Watch report points out, the Kurds were killed "days, even weeks, after being gathered in villages to be destroyed, or while fleeing army assaults on so-called prohibited areas." If the Kurds are indeed the great forgotten ones in history, ladies and gentlemen, let us make use of this evening to reverse the trend, to express the truth as it was and to recognize the genocide to which they were subjected. We believe that the Kurds have rights over us, first of all in the name of history, because it is sound to recognize genocide when it was perpetrated – it is even the best way to prevent its repetition – but also because the Kurds are those who, by choice and by blood, fought our enemies of Daesh, those who attacked us in our territory and whose trial is taking place at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] This people who have been abandoned by the Americans, France continues to try to defend it with the means at its disposal, but one of the more powerful means it has is the fact that it is not a country like any other in the eyes of the world and that it is able to denounce crimes against humanity when they occur, in order to avoid their repetition. To the IDU and independent group, we believe that our country owes it to the Kurds and we hope that the National Assembly will be able to consecrate this recognition of the Kurdish genocide so that history does not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u17	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u18	The fate of the Kurds in Iraq from the 1970s to the 1990s is so serious that several decades later we wanted the National Assembly to deal with them differently than it is proposed to us today. The form and the background are mixed in my words. We believe that he would have agreed in this motion for a resolution to ask the French Government to table a resolution in the United Nations Security Council to try those responsible for genocide and other serious violations of international humanitarian law in the context of the massacres in Iraqi Kurdistan. That is not quite the point of your proposal, Mr. President Lagarde. Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum maintains a misunderstanding by stating that these massacres are already described as genocide by two legal acts which, although legal, are not an international tribunal for any of them – I am thinking of the well-known ad hoc tribunals established by the Security Council which have led to the recognition of the genocide of the Tutsis in Rwanda and the Bosniacs in the former Yugoslavia. It is, in our view, at this level alone that genocide could or could not be recognized with regard to a state policy of extreme violence against the Kurds of Iraq – a widely documented policy, particularly with regard to the massacres carried out by means of chemical weapons bombardments. The definition of genocide cannot be taken lightly, given the tragedies experienced by the Kurds of Iraq, but also by other peoples whose destiny deserves consideration, in Syria, Libya, Yemen or Cameroon. It is therefore necessary to question this qualification and to stick to an undisputed and undisputed procedure. This is, in our view, the only way to help the Kurdish people of Iraq in concrete terms. We would also have liked the motion for a resolution to call for the creation of a transitional justice system in Iraq, with a truth and reconciliation commission, and the reparation of Kurdish but also Yezidi and Assyrian-Chaldean victims – minorities with several thousand deaths. In conclusion, on the basis of the consultations we have conducted – and I thank my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq for that – we consider that this resolution, which concerns a sensitive area, is not ripe. The GDR Group's abstention – because we will abstain – must be understood as an invitation to rebuild a resolution of high ambition, of international scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u19	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u20	The motion for a resolution that we are considering concerns facts of terrible gravity, since the years have not taken away anything from their abominable character. How can we not think about it with anguish and recollection in the sight of these women and men who, every year, meet on 16 March in the streets of Halabja? They and they embody the memory of the horror that struck their families and loved ones in 1988, when the Iraqi armed forces used their chemical arsenal for the sole purpose of causing the deaths of the inhabitants of this Kurdish city in northern Iraq. Even today, the physical and psychological stigmas of these atrocities persist in the minds and flesh of a traumatized population, often suffering from serious health problems. Halabja is unfortunately just one example of the abuses committed by Saddam Hussein's regime in its fight against the Kurds, leading to the massacre of thousands of people. If they were not the only instrument of death of Iraqi forces, chemical weapons played a special role in this tragedy. In addition to the emotion caused by the use of this type of arsenal, France was aware of the obvious confrontation it constituted and is still today in relation to the most fundamental principles of the law of armed conflict; At the time, therefore, it had not failed to reiterate its initiatives in favour of the prohibition of the use of chemical weapons. This commitment was reflected in 1997 in the establishment of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), which now has some 193 members who are consistently committed to combating the use of these arsenals. During his visit to Erbil on 17 July 2020, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs mentioned the need for France to continue to support the victims of the chemical attacks in Kurdistan. I fully associate our parliamentary group with these statements, as well as with the firm condemnation reiterated by the Quai d'Orsay on the occasion of the thirty-third anniversary of the Halabja massacre last March. Nevertheless, despite the solidarity with the victims of these acts, which we all share, the working Republic Group will not support this motion for a resolution for a number of reasons. The first is the formulation of the commitments of the National Assembly and the invitations to the Government. Indeed, by using the terms "crime against humanity" and "genocide", President Lagarde's motion for a resolution does not merely denounce the unspeakable nature of the acts committed against the Kurdish population. Because we are in Parliament, it should be remembered that these terms are not only of semantic value, but also of legal significance, of which it is neither the French Parliament nor the Government to be the judge, this faculty belonging to judicial organizations, first and foremost the International Criminal Court, in consultation with academics and historians. Moreover, at a time when accusations of interference resonate in a very special way on the international scene, we consider that it is not for a foreign state, even a friend of Iraq as is France, to demand, as this resolution proposes, reparations from Baghdad towards the Kurdish people. Moreover, the implications of such a requirement can be serious and counterproductive for the work of understanding undertaken since 2003 between the Iraqi central government and the Kurdistan regional government, reviving tensions between them. Finally, the adoption of this motion for a resolution would necessarily sound like an abandonment or even a denial to all non-Kurdish victims of Saddam Hussein's regime. I am thinking in particular of the Shiite populations, which are also massacred in a methodical manner by the Iraqi armed forces because they are opposed to the tyrant. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the light of these observations, I repeat, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the adoption of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u21	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u22	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u23	We are meeting today to consider a motion for a resolution, tabled by the independent UDI Group, which aims to recognise the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq, carried out under Saddam Hussein's regime. This subject is particularly important when the crimes committed by this regime have led to the decimation of a large part of the Kurdish population in this territory. Between the 1970s and 1990, nearly 90 per cent of Kurdish villages were destroyed, no less than 1.5 million peasants were interned and 400,000 Kurds were killed. In the face of this dramatic record, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats can only testify to its solidarity with the Kurdish population and condemn the inhumanity of the actions of the then Iraqi authorities against it. We are obviously sensitive to the IDU and independent group's proposal, while recalling that such a position can only be taken on an international scale and that initiating such a process requires time and the rigour of historians. It is also important for us to look at the place given to the Kurdish people in today's Iraq. Since 2005, the adoption by referendum of a new Iraqi constitution has marked a major turning point in the creation of an autonomous and federated Kurdish region, Iraqi Kurdistan. The establishment of a parliamentary regime in Iraq has since resulted in a fair representation of all components of the Iraqi people, thus allowing for the increasing integration of the Kurds into the political decision-making process. Today, therefore, the dialogue between the Iraqi and Kurdish authorities is constant, and their relationship is becoming increasingly balanced. France has supported, and continues to support, the empowerment of the Kurds. In 2014, we helped maintain Kurdish operational capabilities as part of the fight against the Islamic State. Our relationship with the Kurdish population in Iraq is also strong in cultural matters, particularly through the actions of the French Institute present in Iraqi Kurdistan. Finally, during his recent visit to Iraq, President Emmanuel Macron took advantage of his visit to call for respect for the communities, going as far as to visit Iraqi Kurdistan, where he met with the president of the autonomous region. The text before us today calls on the French Government to work with Iraq to make reparations for the damage suffered by the Kurds. While we are well aware of the seriousness of the acts committed under Saddam Hussein's regime, our group is not in favour of this proposal, however, in the name of respect for the rules of non-interference. Indeed, in our view, this unilateral proposal could undermine not only our relations with Baghdad and Erbil, but also the political balance that has been gradually built up, since 2003, between the Kurdistan regional government and federal Iraq. While the President of the Republic reaffirmed, at the Baghdad conference on 28 August, the importance of Iraq's sovereignty for all Iraqis, including the Kurds, it does not seem appropriate for France alone to ask for reparations. If the recognition of genocide were to take place, it would require the creation of favourable conditions so that it would not occur to the detriment of stability in Iraq. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, our group will not vote in favour of the adoption of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u24	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u25	The subject we are addressing is part of a painful struggle of a people that has been subjected to many abuses and sufferings, for more than a century to this day. This is a sensitive subject, because it is a crime of genocide. The term genocide was first used in 1944 by Polish lawyer Raphael Lemkin in his book Axis Rule in Occupied Europe. In 1946, genocide was first recognized as a crime under international law by the United Nations General Assembly. In the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, genocide consists of the intention to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group: murder of members of the group; serious harm to the physical or mental integrity of members of the group; intentional submission of the group to living conditions that would result in its physical destruction. There are therefore two elements to be gathered in order to qualify a crime as genocide: the psychological element, the intention, and the material element, the facts. What can be termed the genocide of the Kurds of Iraq, also known as Anfal, took place from February to September 1988. According to the Iraqi Special Court and according to estimates provided by Kurdish leaders, it caused the death of 50,000 to 180,000 Kurdish civilians. It took place in several stages. Prohibited areas comprising more than 1,000 Kurdish villages were first demarcated, and anyone who was there was to be killed. Up to 200,000 Iraqi soldiers, grouped into sixteen divisions and a chemical weapons battalion and supported by aviation, were mobilized to carry out these massacres. For the first time in 2005, the Hague Court described these massacres as genocide. He was soon followed by the Iraqi Special Court, which on 23 June 2007 recognized the perpetrators of the massacres guilty of the crime of genocide. Therefore, the question before us today is that of the recognition of these crimes at the international level, which has not been very clear, at least one can say. Beyond the historical circumstances and the difficulty of such recognition at the international level, questions must be asked. Several parliaments and states have recognized the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq. This question has not yet arisen for France; I thank the IDU and independent group for having had the courage to submit it to us. The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which it has put on the agenda. Beyond that, I would like to return to a more recent situation on which I have had the opportunity to question the Government. The Kurdish people of Iraq or Syria are an ally of France. Beyond borders, this people suffers abandonment and suffering. As part of the Turkish military operations on the Syrian border, I asked the Government a question on 9 October 2019, meaning that the silence of the Quai d'Orsay vis-à-vis the Kurds was intolerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u26	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u27	This silence runs counter to what has always been France's diplomacy at the international level: a strong voice, respected, able to put itself at the service of the protection of the people and, above all, to keep the word. Like others, I call for the protection of the Kurds. They were our allies, we mustn't forget it. In another question, asked on 14 March 2018, I called on the Government to acknowledge the decisive assistance provided by the Kurds to the international coalition in the fight against Daesh. We have a duty to protect them. Mr. Secretary of State, it wasn't you who answered me at the time, it was Mr. Le Drian. I must say that I preferred the first version of Le Drian: when he was Minister of Defence, he relied on the Kurds and he had committed himself to ensuring that they were protected. The second version of Le Drian, Minister for Foreign Affairs, did not keep his word,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... he did not keep the word of France; It's very serious. This protection was not provided, even though commitments had been made. Today, thanks to the IUD-I group, there is a historical question; I believe that the French Parliament would be in the interest of recognising the genocide of the Kurds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u30	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u31	This evening's events at the initiative of President Jean-Christophe Lagarde and the UDI-I Group are obviously extremely serious and painful. Therefore, it is with particular attention and emotion that I wish to respond to the motion for a resolution that is before the National Assembly. In this motion for a resolution, you mention in particular, and rightly so, the military campaign known as Anfal and the massacre of the inhabitants of Halabja. The Government, on whose behalf I speak, appreciates all the horror that these acts have inspired their contemporaries, and that they still inspire them today, more than thirty years after Saddam Hussein's Iraq committed them. Launched in the winter of 1988, the Anfal campaign is the name of a dozen attacks that took place in the territory of what is now the autonomous region of Iraqi Kurdistan. In March 1988, these operations took the lives of 5,000 people, carried away in what remains the most serious chemical attack on civilians ever committed. On the occasion of this debate, I reiterate our condolences to the families and relatives of the victims, both direct and indirect, for this attack, expressing our emotion and support. I would also like to reiterate our solidarity and our unwavering support for all the Kurds in Iraq. This commitment and indignation, France immediately expressed them at the highest level, and has kept the memory of Halabja alive. This was recalled: in 1988, the President of the Republic François Mitterrand expressed his solidarity with the Kurdish people at the UN rostrum in New York,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u32	Very timidly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u33	...of which he claimed that he was a "doubly hit minority" by a power that attacked her and made her the victim of her abominable chemical experiments. At the time, his voice was very lonely. In 1999, President Jacques Chirac told Oradour-sur-Glane that Halabja was part of the collective memory and stressed that, in Halabja and Srebrenica, the executioners had made no distinction between children, women and men. Most recently, on 29 August, during his visit to Iraq and the Kurdistan Autonomous Region, President Emmanuel Macron came to convey to the Kurdish people and their representatives the expression of our friendship and loyalty. Earlier this year, on 16 March 2021, France solemnly commemorated the terrible anniversary of the Halabja massacre, in this city where a year earlier, we announced the deployment of a special aid for the hospital opened in 2018. This French aid, announced by Jean-Yves Le Drian alongside the president of the Kurdistan Autonomous Region, Netchirvan Barzani, gives increased capacity to medical teams to intervene in the surgical but also psychosocial field. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Valérie Rabault also applauds]] While France was the first to express its outrage in support of the Kurdish people who were the victims of the abominable attacks of Saddam Hussein's Baasist regime, France has also acted in practice since the first day. We all have in mind the personal commitment of Danielle Mitterrand, who had courageously visited the camps where the survivors were and had made known to the world the horror of the massacres committed by Saddam Hussein's regime, and whose two French schools in Kurdistan today bear the name – it is a symbol. I have indicated that France is acting consistently and in a spirit of continuity and historical accuracy. Thirty years before this support to Halabja Hospital and the fight against the lasting causes of chemical attacks, we had seized the means at our disposal on the international stage. France, faithful to its principles and responsibilities, as a permanent member of the Security Council, reinvigorated the Conference on Disarmament in January 1989. This international conference, which concluded in Paris, saw 149 States, almost all the States of the world then, reaffirm their rejection of chemical weapons. As a result of this initiative, the Chemical Weapons Convention was established in 1993. Today, France remains uncompromising about the implementation of this multilateral treaty, which prohibits the development, manufacture, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. The international news unfortunately reminds us of the fact that the issue of the use of these weapons continues to prevail. It was with the same intransigence that we responded to the use of chemical weapons in Syria, through diplomatic means at the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and as part of our national initiative to combat impunity, but also by force against a Syrian regime that, like Saddam Hussein's in his time in Iraq, had chosen to use these weapons against his own people. This determined and concrete action and our constant commitment to the Kurds foster the friendship of our peoples – I believe that we all share this will and pride. Aware of its status, France was able to act, sometimes alone, effectively and decisively on the international scene to protect the Kurds of Iraq when international circumstances required it. In April 1991, during the Gulf War, during which Saddam Hussein's Iraq repressed the civilian population, particularly in Kurdistan, France submitted a draft resolution to the United Nations demanding that Iraq immediately put an end to the repression of Iraqi civilian populations, including in Kurdish settlements. This resolution, adopted on 5 April 1991 by the Security Council, which is rightly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution, has brought to an end the spread of the Iraqi army, the bombings and the repression which threatened to lead again, particularly in Kurdish areas, to mass massacres. Finally, it was thanks to our exceptional relations with the Kurds of Iraq that France, almost twenty years later, was able to defeat the Islamic State in Iraq, within the international coalition against Daesh. France does not forget what it owes to the Peshmergas, to those Kurdish fighters who have been decisive in their courage to free Iraq from the territorial threat of Daesh. Today, France continues to fight terrorism in the region and knows what it owes to the Kurdish authorities and to their support: the President of the Republic strongly affirmed it, again recently, during his visit. Ladies and gentlemen, the events that you have referred to and on which I have just returned have been a lasting mark of our collective memory. They have also marked the consciences, in Iraq and far beyond. Thus, the components of Iraqi society initiated an approach, at the fall of Saddam Hussein, with a serious return to these events. The Iraqi Special Court, as rightly stated in the motion for a resolution, condemned in 2007 those responsible for this massacre, including Ali Hassan Al-Majid. In addition to a judicial process, Iraq, in all parts of its society, has also begun a memorial process. Iraq, finally, has embarked on an approach aimed at providing a place for all the communities that make up its society, whether minority or majority. This approach remains fragile, and injuries remain acute. Halabja will remain our sting, as we continue to fight against proliferation and impunity and as we give our full support to Iraq and its renewed and open governance to its various components. The President of the Republic told Erbil on 29 August 2021: "France is in solidarity with the Kurdish people in the face of the wounds of history". The friendship between French and Kurds is deeply linked to this relationship with history. With regard to the Government's position on the motion for a resolution that we are considering, and bearing in mind the dramatic facts that I have just recalled, it seems to me essential to draw the attention of the National Assembly to the questions raised by such a resolution. It is not the facts, nor our shared emotion, nor our common commitment that are at stake. Nevertheless, the recognition of genocide, to which this motion for a resolution calls, must be prepared and accompanied – MM. Wulfranc and Mbaye recalled this – by a long work, that of historians, but also that of jurists. This task goes beyond our common work and the executive alone. As such, I refer to two decisions of the Constitutional Council of 28 February 2012 and 26 January 2017, which have censored laws aimed at repressing the existence of genocides recognized by the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u34	This is not a law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u35	In particular, the Constitutional Council considered that one of the indispensable prerequisites was, in addition to the adoption of normative provisions, the recognition of acts of genocide by domestic or international courts. There is therefore a very demanding procedure. Such recognition is inseparable from a legal and historical process, which can only be carried out in the long run. This does not detract from the dramas that have been reported and the facts that have been recalled. I must also draw the attention of national representation to the question of sovereignty raised by the proposal that is being defended. Not because we should close our eyes, but because in Iraq of 2021, which has nothing to do with Saddam Hussein's Iraq, the sovereignty of the country is an essential issue. France is actively involved in efforts to strengthen this sovereignty. This is the whole issue of the Baghdad conference, which was held on 28 August 2021 with our support, and in which the President of the Republic was the only Western participant. The purpose of this conference was to reaffirm the importance of the sovereignty of the country, for the benefit of all Iraqis, be they Arabs, Kurdishs or Turkmens, Shiite Muslims as Sunni, Christians or Yezidis. It is essential that a subject of such importance in Iraqi national memory be dealt with first by the Iraqis themselves. It is therefore first of all in the new Iraqi Parliament, elected only a few weeks ago, which has not yet had time to sit and which is strongly renewed, that it is up to us to decide on this issue, as well as on the question of possible reparations, raised by the motion for a resolution. In particular, I want to highlight the topicality and complexity of this last aspect. For several years, the federal government and the Kurdistan regional government have engaged in negotiations on a number of topics, including a financial component. These questions are eminently political, fueled by recent fractures and the wounds of history, and relate – I insist – to Iraq's very sovereignty, its own memory and its institutional organization. Finally, Iraq is a complex country where to prioritise memories, it is to take the risk, even today, in a fragile context, of dividing them and even raising them against each other. The Shiites, too, have suffered the massive and extremely violent repression of Saddam Hussein's regime: we have always taken this into account. I would also like to mention the Yezidis, who have suffered terribly from the actions of Daesh, as well as the Christians, who have not been spared by these decades of blood. It is the responsibility of the Iraqis themselves, above all, to do the work of memory, truth, justice and reparation about their past. We must accompany and support them. Our debate this evening may help, but it is a prior responsibility that I believe belongs to them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, I am convinced that, at this stage, the adoption by a third country of such a declaration or resolution could undermine the objectives it wants to serve. Therefore, you will understand that if we condemn without hesitation, and for a long time, the actions carried out by Saddam Hussein's regime against the Kurds, in particular the chemical massacres you have reported, of unspeakable gravity, that of Halabja in particular, whose consequences we have constantly drawn in our international action, we cannot support your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u36	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u37	Allow me to express the sadness of our group after hearing some interventions, including that of the Government. The support of the Assembly's groups, with the exception of the Socialist and related groups, does not go as far as the recognition of genocide. We can be grateful, you say, but not until then: that would be too much. Mr. Mbaye argued that semantic value would not be the same as legal value. That is true, but, I'm sorry to tell you, we had exactly the same debate on the Armenian genocide. Semantic value is therefore also a legal value. Moreover, we are not presenting a bill, but a motion for a resolution, which first and foremost has symbolic value – including to the Government, for it to work. You referred to the denial of the non-Kurdish populations of recognition of the genocide of the Kurds. Does that mean that when the genocide of the Jews in World War II was recognized, the genocide of the Gypsies was not recognized and denied? What you're saying here is absolutely inconceivable! You are looking for reasons to refuse this text: perhaps there are good ones, but in any case, this one does not seem admissible to me. The representative of the Communist Group refused, under the guise of various artifices, to recognize genocide. This surprised me greatly, because between 5 and 10 per cent of the Kurdish population was deliberately eliminated, in an organized manner, as President Valérie Rabault acknowledged, which I thank. You know this has happened, but you think it's not genocide. However, I will return to that, there is a great difference between genocide and war crime, and that is one of the reasons why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. Even more sad to hear the Democratic Group say that genocide should be recognized at the international level. I'm sorry, but the British House of Commons has recognized it! Ms. Rabault also referred to the Hague Court, as well as the Iraqi Court itself. But we don't. You also told us that because there was a new power, and fortunately, the genocide perpetrated by the previous power should not be dealt with. I don't understand the logic. The recognition or denunciation of genocide would hinder, you said, our relations with the Iraqi state – but I do not imagine that the current Iraqi regime feels responsible for the genocide perpetrated by Saddam Hussein! We can see that the arguments are turning and turning around the pot, to say with great emotion how grateful we are to the Kurds, but that we will not go so far as to recognize the genocide to which they have been subjected. I don't understand. You can measure the horror, but you refuse to qualify it, to name it, as we did for Rwanda, as well as for the Armenians – whereas at the time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the same way, under various presidents, did not want to hinder our relations with Turkey. You told us, Secretary of State, that it was up to Iraq to do the memory work: do you ask Turkey the same thing for the Armenians? Have we waited until Turkey decided to do its memory work to recognize the Armenian genocide? I do not believe that this is how France and French diplomacy must behave. You speak of friendship and fidelity, but not recognition of this genocide. Now all the qualifications of genocide – organization, will, systematization – are present, and it is a big difference with the war crime. Gazer 5000 people can be a war crime, because the war crime is not – it is legal – the enterprise of systematic destruction of all or part of a population. This is what has been done in Iraqi Kurdistan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u39	Even though we have asked them to help us in the war against Daesh, we are denying them this recognition which would prepare the possibility of avoiding the recurrence of such crimes. You refuse because Daesh – this is the end of your intervention – has committed crimes that we have not always been able to protect – and still today with Mr Erdogan's accomplices – the Kurdish populations. We supported them, but at the end of the war we also largely abandoned them – in any case the Americans, because for us, given the secret, we don't really know. Because Daesh allegedly committed crimes or genocide, should we not recognize the one that was committed before? I don't understand. [[Applause on several benches in the IUD-I group]] I would have hoped that France would honour itself by recognizing this genocide and not wait, as I have heard, for everyone else to recognize it. Perhaps we were the first to be indignant, Mr. Secretary of State; We should not be the last to recognize the Kurdish genocide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u41	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u42	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 27 Number of votes cast 26 Absolute majority 14 For adoption 9 Against 17
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1075.u43	Next sitting, Monday, 29 November, at 4 p.m.: Final reading of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022; Motion for a resolution on Taiwan's association with the work of international organizations; Motion for a resolution on the fight against plastic pollution; Second reading of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. The meeting is adjourned.
